ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the additional session of the first plenary session. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U2	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! Today, the Government of the Republic is launching a draft law amending the European Union citizen's law and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U3	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Since we are together today to discuss draft laws and issues relating to the issue of trust in the government, it is certainly very important from the perspective of the opposition that the procedures in question do not start to harass the opposition's right to ask questions and to have its proposals put to the vote. In short, it is important that the trust process is not abused. The Free Party Group is very sad that we cannot vote here on the numerous proposals to amend the so-called cluster bill. But our surprise was quite great when we began to see how the draft on the trust issue was being processed before the second reading. The smart yellow book does not say about this procedure that members of the Riigikogu have the right to ask questions to the representative of the Government of the Republic. Moreover, comment No 5 states that this is clearly a deficit of the law. I must congratulate the Riigikogu's management here, which, however, has foreseen this possibility in the procedural scheme, but if the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu are to be deepened, there is no provision for this possibility for linking the draft to the question of trust before the second reading. Our proposal is to supplement the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act in this respect and to add a sentence to § 137 (4): 'A member of the Riigikogu may ask up to two oral questions to the rapporteur. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U5	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U6	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of § 65 (13) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and § 133 of the Law on the Home and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, we express a mistrust to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. The Government of the Republic initiated a cluster bill for tax increases, consisting of increased excise duties on fuel and increased VAT rates on accommodation establishments. These tax changes clearly undermine the well-being of the Estonian people and are therefore unacceptable. The Prime Minister, who is pressuring coalition partners to make tax increases, has broken the promise made before the elections. The day before the elections, Taavi Rõivas presented an explicit plan for raising taxes on the live air of Estonian Television. It is clear that the Prime Minister vasssed for a better election result. Such a policy is not acceptable to the people who wanted a government that would offer solutions that would lead to faster economic growth in Estonia and help to catch up with the Nordic countries, a government that would deal with emigration and ensure wage growth, which would help to catch up with the increased prices so far. But these questions are not on the government table at all, instead they are playing with tax rates. Thousands of people have expressed their minds against increasing excise duties on fuel. More than 28000 signatures have been collected and a number of businesses and business organisations have expressed their opposition. But such a number of people seem to be trivial for the head of government, and the increase in taxes is definitely moving forward. We believe that, as Head of Government, it is the Prime Minister who is responsible for the negative changes to be made. Therefore, 33 members of the Riigikogu have initiated a motion of distrust of the Prime Minister. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U7	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U8	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, We will present an inquiry to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas on one of the most important issues of recent days. In fact, the government has confirmed that Estonia does not agree with the refugee quotas set by the European Union, that admission must be strictly voluntary and that this rate cannot be higher than Estonia's share of the European Union's population or GDP. Specific figures have been refused by the government. However, on the 9th day, the Ministry of the Interior has signed a training contract for training 2550 new immigrants until 2017. Neither the Minister of the Interior nor any other representative of the Government mentioned the existence of such an agreement at the joint session of the Riigikogu committees or at the meeting of ELAK. In this connection, we ask: does the government plan to bring 2550 immigrants to Estonia contrary to its assurances and the powers given to it? What is the basis for this figure? Has the number of eligible immigrants been decided and, if so, why has the government deceived and misled both the public and the Riigikogu? Why has the government ordered an analysis of the impact of immigration, highlighting its negative consequences for all areas of life if it is classified and declared for internal use? And does the government intend to submit a request for resignation in connection with the misleading and deception of the public and the Riigikogu? All members of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia have signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U9	There's no more calls. I have adopted two drafts, one inquiry and one motion of mistrust. Now, please, let's do the presence check! There are 100 members of the Riigikogu, missing 1. First of all, we need to endorse the agenda for the additional sitting. Honourable Riigikogu, I shall vote on the approval of the agenda. Please take a stand and vote. 59 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of approving the agenda, against 40. The agenda is confirmed. According to the approved agenda, we will now begin the second reading of the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and Bill of Amendment of Other Laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Since this is a draft which the Government of the Republic has committed to a matter of trust, I will briefly introduce the procedure. This is stated in § 137 of the Home and Working Procedures Act. First, the presentation of the representative of the Government of the Republic is up to 20 minutes, following questions to the waitress. The Board of the Riigikogu reached the view last year that a member of the Riigikogu was entitled to two questions during the second reading, and on 30 June 2014, when one of the drafts was related to the government's trust, the members of the Riigikogu were able to ask two questions. When the questions are over, I'll open negotiations. Members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups may speak. The amendments are such that they are not put to the vote in accordance with § 137 (6) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act and are subject to the final vote. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U10	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I have a procedural question. Actually, I'll start a little further. Andres Herkel has just handed over a bill that should supplement the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, precisely on the point of whether or not questions can be asked at second reading of a draft relating to trust. § 137 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu does not provide for this right, and § 68 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure states very precisely in which cases a member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask oral questions. The letter states that this right is only in the cases provided for by law. Since this is not provided for in this law, I believe that the Riigikogu's Board of Directors is currently breaking the law if it grants the right to ask such questions. Not that I have anything against the opposition being able to ask questions, but basically, Andres Herkel is right if he offers such a way of solving the problem that if we want to fix it, we will change the law, not that the Riigikogu Board will arbitrarily amend the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U11	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U12	Thank you, Mr President. I have a procedural question. Can we not go further by changing the rules of procedure so that the members of the opposition are simply cut out their tongues?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U13	Any more procedural questions? Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U14	You can talk, right? The previous question was not procedural, but anatomical and therefore completely inappropriate. I want to ask a purely procedural question. Am I right to understand that Mr Herkel's draft must be thrown out as inappropriate because it is trying to make the law what the Bureau has decided long ago? And if the board makes laws, why us? It should, of course, be expelled. Why was this Herkel bill even adopted?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U15	Colleagues Herkel certainly has the right to submit draft laws to the proceedings of the Riigikogu. Last year, when one of the drafts was related to the government's trust, the Bureau was guided by the knowledge that the specific section of the Home and Working Procedures Act does not deal with questions from either a positive or a negative point of view. It follows from the logic that this is a normal second reading, with the exception of the fact that the draft relates to a matter of trust which essentially changes the procedure for examining amendments. In that sense, reading is different. I believe that last year, too, the Riigikogu Board did not break the law by giving the opposition and also the coalition the opportunity to ask questions at second reading to the Government of the Republic under the authority of the leading committee. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U16	I do not think it is a good excuse that once the law has been broken, we will break the law again. In principle, § 68 of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure clearly states that members of the Riigikogu may ask oral questions in the cases provided for in the Act. Since this possibility is not foreseen in the second reading of the draft relating to the question of trust, it must therefore be resolved as Mr Herkel proposed: that we amend the law. The Governing Board cannot have the powers of legislator.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U17	The Management Board considers that the members of the Riigikogu are entitled to two questions according to § 68 (3) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U18	Thank you. I am very pleased to hear Mr President's specific answers. Valdo Randper's inappropriate hysteria does not go hand in hand with good practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U19	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U20	The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union supports the right to ask questions to all members of the Riigikogu, not only to the opposition. We, too, want to ask questions and, at any cost, monitor the Free Party so that they do not cut their tongues out of their mouths today.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U21	We begin the second reading of Bill 41 of the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other Acts, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Minister of Finance Sven Sester. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U22	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will give you an overview of the draft law amending the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and other laws, which bears the number 41. First of all, I will give an overview of the main stages of this draft procedure after submitting it to the Riigikogu, as the decision of the government to link this draft to a matter of trust is different from normal procedure. [[In the diner.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U23	Excuse me, Minister. Wait a minute! Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to the waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U24	The first reading of this draft took place on 3 June. The deadline for tabling amendments was 8 June at 4 p.m. The political groups and members of the Riigikogu tabled 201 amendments, some of which were merged and as a result 192 proposals remained. The Committee on Finance decided to propose two further amendments. On 4 and 8 June, the Committee on Monetary Affairs addressed the requests received from the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Estonian Taxpayers' Association, EVEA, KPMG, the Estonian Traders' Association, the Estonian Tourist Association, the Estonian Hotels and Restaurant Association, the NGO ETAK, the Estonian Power Plants and District heating Association and other organisations. On 4 June, the Commission also discussed the collective approach of the Estonian Free Party 'The sharp rise in fuel excise duty must be canceled! '. The proposals received by the Commission in letters and collective referrals are reflected in the main elements of the draft amendments, which were discussed by the Commission on 9 June. Since the government decided at its meeting on 10 June to link the adoption of the bill to the question of confidence, according to the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, the obligations of the Committee on Monetary Affairs with regard to this draft ended and the Government prepared a draft for the second reading of the draft text, a list of amendments and an explanatory memorandum at the meeting on 11 June. The Government of the Republic also examined and decided on the amendments received. The government also made another amendment. The explanations and consideration of the amendments are set out in the list of amendments submitted to you. The Government decided to take full account of the amendment proposed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs repealing the amendments to excise duty rates laid down for 2016 by the Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity adopted in 2012. The Finance Committee found that § 8 (8) of the draft amends the current rules and proposed that it be deleted. In the list, this amendment is under number 195. This proposal was taken into account by the Government as the objective of the deleted implementing provision was to refer to the possibility of changing rates of excise duty on alcohol, cigarettes and tobacco that would enter into force in 2019 and 2020 so that operators could take this into account when planning their activities. As an amendment to the list, the Government submitted the proposal listed under number 139. According to this, the Government of the Republic will submit to the Riigikogu, no later than 1 March 2018, an analysis and, if necessary, a proposal to change the rate of excise duty if the changes provided for by the law or to its draft may result in negative effects, including public health, consumption, business or excise duties. This is, on the one hand, a follow-up to the proposed amendments to the present draft, but, on the other hand, an analysis that can serve as a basis for changing the rates that will be in force in the future. The Government of the Republic disregarded the proposals for amending the rest of the draft. A large part of the proposals that were not taken into account included in the draft proposal provided for the exclusion of tax changes or for different reductions, which would also result in a reduction in receipts into the state budget. In this context, I note that the draft legislation under discussion is a comprehensive package of tax changes under the Government Union agreement, leading to a shift in the tax burden from labour to consumption. The tax changes contained in the draft have also been taken into account by the government in putting together the country's budget strategy for the next four years. If they were rejected, it would not be possible to take a number of steps that contribute to Estonia's development, which will increase the income of the working people and boost the economy. With the drafts we are discussing today, the government union will improve the livelihood of low-paid people, thus also boosting the labour market, lowering labour taxes and increasing child benefits. The proposals not taken into account by the government also included proposals to substantially change the current tax system, such as those proposed by the EKRE Group to reduce the overall VAT rate by 10%. This would create a total public budget gap of EUR 4.4 billion over the period 2016 to 2020 that cannot be allowed by taking a responsible view of public finances. The proposals of the Free Party Group, which provided for an increase in the rate of income tax of 4% to 24%, and, on the other hand, a faster increase in the tax-free minimum, were not taken into account. Among the amendments that had not been taken into account were a number of individual proposals, not related to the issues covered by the draft, but, for example, to the management of the Health Insurance Fund, the remuneration of board members, the length of small ships, the take-off mass of small aircraft and the hub of moped engines. Finally, I would like to emphasise once again the main changes that make this draft necessary. From the point of view of the sources of cover, the draft is also important for the implementation of other government-related drafts, but specifically with this draft the overall tax-free rate will be increased to EUR 205 per month by 2019. The social tax rate will coincide by a percentage and will result in a reduction in the administrative burden on companies of at least EUR 86 million from 2018, with the possibility of raising wages or making additional investments. Increasing the daily allowance for foreign missions will also have a positive impact on the business environment. That was my review of the draft procedure in the Government of the Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U25	Questions for the waitress. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! I don't think anyone in this Chamber can recall how many times he's been sitting here for at least a decade, he's heard the words that the government has once again presented a comprehensive package of tax changes. You've been chairman of the Finance Commission for a long time, and now you're a minister. Let us not talk about a comprehensive package of tax changes; we are talking about a change in the rates of excise duty. Perhaps you can tell us how many times this has been offered to us in the last ten years and what makes the current offer different from the previous one?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U27	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the past and good new Members. As has been said before, no tax change must remain in stone. If there are reasons to lower taxes or raise them according to the economic situation, according to how our partners behave, I mean our immediate neighbours, then Estonia must also act. Let us not create a situation where we say that the liver, which is fixed, can never change. However, any change must always be accompanied by an impact analysis which one or the other change entails.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U28	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U29	Thank you. Dear Sven Sester! As we know, we are very different from many European countries precisely because there are very many indirect taxes in our tax structure, their share is high. The problem is that consumption taxes have a regressive nature: the lower a person's income, the more he has to pay than his salary. Today you want to raise excise duty again and also VAT, which has been done countless times. Have you analysed what this will bring to our economy? What impact studies have been carried out? We see that, for example, the impact on people's behaviour in connection with tax increases has not actually been investigated.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U30	Thank you, good questioner! If you also look at the more detailed explanatory memorandum at first reading, you will see that the impact of reducing the 1% social tax on businesses and the impact of changes on private consumers, private individuals has been analysed. You will see that the various changes that lead to lower labour taxes and, on the other hand, to the taxation of vices and consumption are either tax-neutral in nature or create a situation where more money is left in the hands of a person.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U31	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U32	Thank you, manager. Minister of Finance! You said that the state of Estonia is watching how neighbouring countries behave. Well, let's talk specifically. Recently, a study was published that the country of Lithuania beats us in the competitiveness ranking. The economic growth in Estonia in the first quarter of this year was barely 1%. Let's see how the government behaves like you said. The number of tourists has decreased by 10% over the year, but our government will raise VAT on tourism companies to 5%, or 14%. In Lithuania, VAT is 9% for accommodation establishments, 12% for Latvia and 10% for Finland. In agriculture, pig herds are severely reduced and dairy farmers are in serious difficulties. How's our government? In Latvia, a specially marked fuel excise duty of 0, we lift it from 110 to 140. The excise duty on diesel fuel in Lithuania is EUR 330 per 1000 litres, which is the minimum rate for the European Union, EUR 332 in Latvia and EUR 392 in Estonia. We are raising it to EUR 448 per 1000 litres, while Latvia and Lithuania remain the same. I ask you, how can your words and actions ever come together? You're acting completely the opposite. How can you still stimulate growth with tax increases?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U33	Thank you, good questioner. Listening to your question, I once again understood that from the position of the opposition, all tax changes that increase the state's revenues are considered to be infinitely harmful and risky and all the positive steps that are financed by these changes are irrelevant and useless. A good colleague, if you look at the entire tax structure in a complex way, you will see that the level of VAT in Estonia is lower than in Latvia. You will see that when it comes to taxes on the restructured profits of companies, Estonia does not have to pay in the case of reinvestments, Latvia is forced to pay. In view of quite a number of changes which, in a complex way, create a situation where countries are able to compete in tax competition between themselves, I would not say that Estonia has a worse tax environment than Latvia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U34	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U35	Thank you. Honourable performer! It's interesting to listen to you. You said that the opposition is against all good proposals. In my opinion, the company of Estonian entrepreneurs is like such a Reform Party-lembene and here comes my question. Tell me how to explain that, after the publication of this bill, the companies spoke out mass in the media and said that this reduction in social tax by 1% is some kind of game that they don't care about at all. It doesn't matter. Why would they take such a position if, according to you, this is a very good proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U36	Thank you. The Chamber of Commerce sent a separate letter to both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, which expressed the view that 1% is too little, this percentage should be higher. So, ladies and gentlemen, if we find the sources of cover, we may be able to reduce social tax even more effectively in the future. This has been the wish of businesses, not to put an end to the 1% reduction in social tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U37	George Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U38	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Minister of Finance! I want to praise you very much. I very much like the expression you quite frequently use that no tax change can be set in stone. On Wednesday, it became apparent that the Government of the Republic will tie this draft to a vote of confidence and assume the role of the leading committee in the examination of the amendments. My question is on Amendment 54. Its content is the proposal to increase the rate of excise duty on beer and thus to eliminate the VAT increase on accommodation establishments. It is, of course, mild alcohol that young people are primarily exposed to. When you discussed this, did you also take the view that no tax rate should be set in stone? Why didn't you support it anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U39	Thank you. If you have noticed, one income in the comprehensive tax package is not related to another cost. This is a holistic approach and it cannot be said that one additional revenue clearly defines where this specific revenue should go in the cost item. These things certainly cannot be dealt with in a single view. But I commend you for the fact that the Centre Party has changed its mind. I would like to stress once again that a year ago you had a completely different opinion and that you stated that the excise duty on lean alcohol should not be increased. And not only did you say that, but you demonstrated your position in a particular vote. You have now changed your position, which, of course, is nothing surprising since people's positions may change. But I will say once again that revenue and expenditure are never specifically linked, so with one income we can cover a certain cost. The government did not follow this desire when discussing these specific measures either.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U40	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, First of all, I would like to thank you for being precise when you referred to the proposal of the Free Party on income tax. Indeed, behind the rise in the income tax rate, we see the means to forcefully raise the tax-free minimum. In this regard, I have quite a concern about Prime Minister Rõivas and the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Holsmer, who has interpreted this proposal in a one-sided way and tried to stigmatise it as an objective to simply increase income tax. Here is my question: what is your impression, whether the Prime Minister and the Chairman of the Monetary Commission have adequately understood the content of the Free Party proposal and are you ready to help us in the future to explain its content to your colleagues in the Cabinet and Coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U42	Thank you, good questioner. I'm always ready to explain my thoughts and my visions. I cannot comment on what one person or another has come up with to say. But true story, if you want to stick to the content, it is certainly a debate place, whether to forcefully raise the income tax-free minimum and take as a source the higher income tax on the wages of the Estonian people, which you have proposed. This is a question that would be necessary and right in Estonia at the moment. There is one small point in your proposal, and that is precisely that the implementation of the amendment that you have proposed will have an impact on everyone. Raising the tax-free minimum would affect everyone regardless of income. The question is that, under limited resource conditions, perhaps we should focus our attention on those who need it most. And most of all, it's necessary for the mostly low-paid people. If you have noticed, the draft procedure will now continue after the amendments to this specific comprehensive tax package have been passed on. When we arrive at the tax refund for low-paid people, we will arrive at a situation where people who currently have a minimum wage or a little over it will no longer pay income tax. It's what they need most.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U43	Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Minister of Finance! You've been sitting in this hall for a long time, now you're on the board as a representative of the government. The Government of the Republic now essentially took control of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu. Perhaps you can appreciate how the Committee on Monetary Affairs should behave now? How long could Riigikogu members have been given to propose amendments? Wasn't that time too short? And perhaps that is why the amendments were not of such high quality from the point of view of the government that they could be accepted?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U45	Thank you. I would not want to interfere with Parliament's regulations. Parliament itself has the right to define what deadlines it wants, what pace to keep. However, if you look at the number of amendments, it seems that there was enough time. We see today a situation where almost 200 amendments are pending. I do not know very many of the drafts on which there are so many amendments, so at least from a quantitative point of view, it could be said that there has been enough time. But once again, I do not want to assume this role in order to decide on Parliament's regulation. Absolutely not.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U46	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U47	Minister of Finance! In your previous reply, you argued that there was enough time for amendments. Last Monday evening, amendments could be tabled, which had to be discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs already on Tuesday. And then the representative of the Ministry of Finance said that he had not been able to analyse the opposition's amendments because there was simply no time. So your own officials don't share your position. But my question is that you have a plan to raise VAT on hotels and other accommodation in Estonia to a higher level than in Finland, Latvia and Lithuania. Please explain what Estonia's advantage is that we can put higher VAT on our hotels than it is in close neighbouring countries!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U48	Thank you. Maybe first so much that you said that I thought there was plenty of time. I haven't made any assessments. I have not, at any moment, assessed whether Parliament is exercising enough of its powers in self-regulation and making sufficient use of its time resources or not. It'll be like your conscience. I don't judge your work. However, as far as VAT on hotels is concerned, I would point out that the government's initial plan was to increase the current preferential VAT to a standard rate of 20%. In later negotiations with interest groups, listening to their analysis and the problems raised, ranging from the ability to compete with neighbouring countries and ending with companies operating in the secret market, there are quite a number of other arguments that the interest groups pointed out, the government decided that VAT would not be raised to the standard rate, but that it would be kept at 14%. Thus, VAT will not be increased by 11%, but by 5% to 14%. When we look at our closest neighbours, we see that Sweden has 12% VAT, Latvia has 12% VAT. The levels are pretty much the same. Moreover, Estonia has managed to be a successful tourist country, and thanks to the lower VAT rate, we have managed to sell accommodation services at higher counter prices and to more tourists. Finland, on the other hand, exceeds Estonia from both sales and sales prices. Estonia must do everything in its power to increase our attractiveness as a tourist country. This is what we need to work for, and the government will provide an opportunity to invest further EUR 6 million of taxpayers' money in the sector in the coming years. I believe that this will also allow Estonia's hotel business, tourism business to grow its turnover and thus increase its profits.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U49	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U50	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, On the opinion portal of today's Postimees, lawyers Allar Jõks and Carri Ginter refer to this cluster bill as an example of vicious legislation. They recall that the Riigikogu worked with the State Budget Act 2012 together with the Act on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, the Act on Artificial Reproductive and Embryo Protection and the Act amending the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office. The then Prime Minister Andrus Ansip promised the Chairman of the Riigikogu that this practice would end. However, Taavi Rõivas, a member of the Monetary Commission at the time, felt that things could go differently in the future, so that the government would submit separate draft laws relating to the budget. From this point to my question: Mr Minister, do you think that the procedure for draft 41 complies with the principles of good lawmaking?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U51	Thank you. It is good that you gave such a concrete example. As a former Member of Parliament, I remember the time when the draft state budget was being processed and, at the same time, the Committee on Monetary Affairs was also forced to deal with the draft law on embryo protection in parallel. The Committee on Monetary Affairs then really asked that there should be no more such procedures. If you note, this is the situation where there are procedures run by one Commission together. The next item on the agenda is the income tax refund for low-paid people, which, in the same way, is part of the government's overall plan. However, since this is a matter for the Committee on Social Affairs, although the Minister for Finance is defending it, it is two separate drafts. So very clearly the ampouaade of one Commission has been taken into account and, looking at the first-reading debate, I believe that this is very reasonable. This gives us an opportunity to understand why one or the other change is being proposed, why excise duty is being increased and labour taxes are being lowered. This will give us an opportunity to approach the issue in the context of the overall picture, by different committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U52	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U53	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Finance! You have repeatedly stressed the need to look at the whole picture when dealing with the tax environment. Nobel Prize winner Joseph Stiglitz also argues that there is a need to look at the whole picture and that systematic changes are needed to prevent tax evasion by large companies. Large companies move their profits from one country to another to avoid corporate tax. According to Stiglitz, the key point is that companies have to pay taxes in the country where the income is earned. Hence my question: if we look at the Estonian tax system as a whole, maybe it is time to re-establish the company's income tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U54	Thank you. No amendments to this content have been tabled before the second reading. It would certainly make sense for us to remain within the framework of the amendments to this particular draft. It is certainly possible to discuss and open a debate on the various philosophical approaches that could and should not be taken, but I am now saying that there has been no such amendment. Moreover, this law is not open at all to debate in this context. At the same time, I say to you that Estonia, not only Estonia, but the whole of Europe, is working to review double taxation issues, but also to review issues relating to non-taxation in different countries. So, in Europe, the situation of double taxation is closely monitored, but the possibility of non-taxation must also not be allowed to arise.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U55	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U56	Thank you. Good minister! The Association of Accommodation Institutions has shown the calculations that the increase in VAT from 9% to 14% has a particularly negative impact on companies in Läänemaa, Saaremaa and Ida-Virumaa. Have you seen these calculations, and if so, why don't you take them into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U57	Thank you. In the case of various tax changes, especially in the case of increases in excise duties, there is always a presumption of elasticity of prices resulting from changes in consumption. In your example, it has been stated that the sale price is likely to increase by just over 3%. If the service is going to be expensive, you have to think about how the situation would be that turnover would not decrease and consequently, of course, other economic indicators would not deteriorate. The Estonian Government has decided to channel nearly 6 million additional taxpayers' money into this sector. Not only to Ida-Virumaa, but to the rural tourism sector at all. So the government has thought about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U58	March Sults, please, first question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U59	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! Listening to your reasoning and explanations and analyses, and since I have been following our economic policy, this is the question: if the euro subsidies are left behind, how quickly will Estonia fall into hyperinflation and hyperbankruptcy? As a rule, Estonia is unable to manage and service euro investments. One example is the disintegration and repair of the Cross of the Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U60	Thank you. Hyperinflation and hyperbanking? Good questioner, your questions are always very impressive and in this sense you must be acknowledged. Last time you asked me if 38 million suddenly could not be paid out in the case of a tax refund for low-paid people, what would happen in spring? Then I told you that this situation certainly cannot arise if we consider this 38 million need in terms of the share of revenue and expenditure. Today, too, I say to you, my good colleague, that it is very important, firstly, whether our revenues and costs are balanced, and secondly, it is certainly important that one day we will have a situation where we will no longer be net recipients in Europe. And look, if we're not net recipients, then our standard of living has gotten so much higher that we have no reason to be below this level anymore. Estonia must act to ensure that, after the European Union's financial resources have been interrupted or decreased, there is no situation where we do not provide any services. This is what Estonia is currently investing in Structural Funds money.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U61	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U62	Mr. Secretary of Finance! In the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, the officials of the Ministry of Finance explain that due to urgency it was not possible to carry out a thorough socio-economic impact analysis as well as to analyse the impact on the burden on local authorities. At first reading of the draft law, you answered my question that the relevant impact analyses have been carried out. In the meantime, have you found out who was wrong, whether it was the officials or you? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U63	Thank you. The question and the look are always in the eye of the viewer. I assure you that the analyses that will give us the opportunity to move forward with this bill, the analyses that will give us the opportunity to understand whether the changes that we are making are creating fiscal effects in the country and, if so, which are present today. These analyses are also on your desks and, looking at this bill, we can say that the impact of these changes will also increase the revenue base of local governments in the future. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U64	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U65	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I am sincerely pleased that, in your short speech, you brought out almost exclusively only the improvements proposed by the Conservative People's Party. I don't take these crocodile tears seriously because this is where the Health Insurance Board started to change, because that's how it happens when you start the cluster bill. I'd like to take care of one thing. You said that the implementation of our amendment on VAT would create a 4,4 billion hole in the state budget in the next four years. It's not quite correct. This would be an amount that would not be lost in comparison with the current tax base, and it would not be a public budget hole. As a result of the economic recovery, the revenue from VAT would start to grow significantly faster, so in a few years' time, it would be a few hundred million-dollar hole. Do you agree with me that it is possible to calculate this matter in several ways and that this 4.4 billion would not be a public budget hole, but an outstanding amount of money?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U66	Thank you. I call on you not to speculate if you want to be conservative not only in form, but also in substance. I call on you not to be so munchhausenic and to say that if one step is taken, then there will be a bunch of other steps that automatically generate revenue for the country. Similarly, if a tax refund for low-paid people is started, all this EUR 38 million will return to the market. There will probably not be any euros left to be deposited in additional accounts, as these people will return this money to the market. In this case, too, it is not automatically taken into account that this is the case and that this is the case with the increase in the VAT receipts of one or the other. This is very risky if we consider that, for example, 20% of VAT will automatically be refunded for such changes. You shouldn't take risks like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U67	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Minister of Finance, Sven Sester! I am in a bit of an awkward situation because it is not really polite to ask a colleague or a colleague of a friend. But what to do. I would rather have asked the Prime Minister, who might have been more expert in a nuance. Namely, the leading reform parties in Tartu have turned to me and resented the increase in VAT on the same hotels. They say that this talk of 3%, which only rises in prices, is either bona fide or not good-faith naivism. They're said to be rising more. In fact, people from the Riigikogu were invited to Tartu to meet hotel people. Unfortunately, I was the only one there, so I have to mediate this story. In Tartu, the question arose as to whether the hotel business that was once considered to be prospective was suddenly the same as the fault of the pig-farming planners. Should it start tightening up?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U69	Thank you. If you notice, the value added tax for hotels will rise by 5%. You can calculate for yourself what the maximum price increase could be if any tax changes are made. And I still assure you that the Estonian state intends to invest additional taxpayers' money in this sector. We must make this effort to increase the attractiveness of the country as a destination country. Compared to our closest neighbours and other European countries, Estonia has been attractive. More tourists have come here in absolute numbers than Latvia and Lithuania. I think that's the line we need to keep in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U70	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Do you know and have taken into account the impact of raising VAT on the accommodation service from the point of view that numerous educational establishments offer competition at lower prices in their student homes and dormitories, not for sports camps and recreational camps, but for accommodation for tourism and conference groups? In itself, it is unfair competition because utilities and services and investments are paid by the State, but must also be paid by a private operator on the account of his own wallet?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U72	Thank you. It was a question of whether or not, and I will answer it: yes, we are dealing with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U73	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U74	Thank you, President of the sitting. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I have listened to your answers on raising the VAT rate for accommodation establishments. I have also reviewed the letters that we have received in recent days from both business representatives and umbrella organisations. The negative effects have been identified as the risk of loss of competitiveness, job losses in the sector, rise in the price of accommodation services, insufficient resources for investment, which has an impact on the quality of service and thus on competitiveness again. At the same time, it is noted that an increase in the VAT rate may have a negative impact not only on the tourism sector in Estonia, but on the whole of Europe, as Europe is trying to position itself as a whole destination region. How, then, will the law of this draft help us to better position ourselves on the world market and support our already difficult tourism sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U75	Thank you. If we look at other European countries, we can see that in Denmark the rate of VAT is 25% for hotels, 20% in Great Britain, 20% in Slovakia, 18% in Hungary, 15% in the Czech Republic. I am talking about countries where the VAT rate for hotels is also higher than the future Estonian VAT rate. But I agree with you that any increase in the VAT rate will affect the sector. And in order to minimise this impact, we must create the situation that the Estonian state is attractive. I call here on the Minister for Enterprise to provide input on how to invest an additional EUR 6 million in the tourism sector over the next year and a half, mainly rural tourism.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U76	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U77	Thank you, Minister. I am interested in increasing the rate of excise duty on oil shale and oil shale fuel. In essence, it is an excise duty with regional impact that affects precisely Ida-Virumaa, where people who work with oil shale from scratch to the last step, which we call the final product. At the same time, the least-taxed population lives in the region. My question to you is: has the government considered taking steps to ease the heat supply of the inhabitants of Ida-Viru County?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U78	Thank you. The logic of taxation of fuel in the draft law is essentially based on the fuel used by one fuel or another, whether it is motor fuel or other fuel, and on its energy content. The aim is to increase the harmonisation of taxation in terms of use and energy content. These are the criteria that are relevant to excise duties on fuels. Now that we are talking specifically about Ida-Virumaa, one measure that the country has come out of and that I also call for active use is the thermal insulation programme for apartment buildings implemented through KredEx. Over the years, the state has invested almost 40 million euros in the thermal insulation programme of apartment buildings through KredEx. The measure has also been used in Ida-Virumaa, but in much smaller volumes than in other regions. Perhaps there is also a reason that there has been the lowest warm price ever, perhaps because it is not the intention to take advantage of the opportunity given by the state. I call on you to pass on this information to your constituents. And if the programme for the reconstruction of apartment buildings applies in Estonia to the limits of 15%, 25% or 40% of the cost of the project, then the increased limits apply in Ida-Viru County: 25%, 35% and 50%. The state is therefore trying to focus this support more on Ida-Viru County. And if you look at the comprehensive tax package, as we are dealing with it here today, you will also see that, on the other hand, the state will physically leave more money in the hands of people, including the people of Ida-Viru County, through tax changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U79	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U80	Thank you. Good minister! In fact, we still have not received an answer on the analysis of the effects associated with this draft. The same thing was pointed out in the Saturday paper by a number of leading lawyers who pointed out that without assessing the impact of taxes, no efficiency could be achieved. The same article also pointed out that until it was decided how the European Union's requirements for renewable energy sources are met, we cannot make today's decisions either. As we know, by 2020, we will have to use at least 10% of the fuel produced from renewable sources in transport. Have you analysed all of this complexly and what kind of plans do you have?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U81	Thank you. We've been doing a lot of analysis, and you've got plans on your desk. I believe that if we proceed with these plans, labour costs will be reduced and consumption costs associated with vices will increase. If you look separately at the impact on both private individuals and businesses, when tax changes are implemented, how much money will be available to entrepreneurs to raise wages or invest and, on the other hand, how much more money will be left to the citizens of the Republic of Estonia to cover daily needs, these impact analyses have been carried out. If you want to know what the tax treatment of evils will be and the resulting potential increase in the secret market and cross-border trade will be, then all these effects will be included in the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The government's priority is to reduce child poverty and so significantly raise child support, which is undoubtedly an absolutely right step. At the same time, it cannot be seen as the right step for you to quietly decouple the additional tax-free income for child maintenance from the tax-free rate and fix it at EUR 154, or EUR 1848 per year. So far, the additional tax exemption for children has always been linked to tax-free income. This amount could be EUR 2460 per year, i.e. the difference is EUR 612. So you raise child benefits with a loud voice, while you freeze benefits quietly, making it worse for families. Please explain the considerations that you have taken into account to decouple the additional tax-free income from the tax-free rate.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U83	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U84	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The cluster law plans to change the amount of income tax to be refunded. In particular, adult driving training and an estimated proportion of the fees for sports, dance, music and other such recreational schools will no longer be deducted from income tax. These costs can no longer be deducted from the income of the natural person. This decision is particularly regrettable in a situation where the need for people to be relocated and retrained in the labour market is increasing. Why did the state decide to punish those people who have a desire or even a need to educate themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U85	Thank you. Under no circumstances does the state want to punish those people who have a desire and a need for further training. Absolutely not! When it comes to education, tax incentives are always possible. In this case, the State has stated that it should not be covered by the exemption. However, if a person tries to raise his or her level, his or her expenses can still be deducted from income.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U86	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U87	Thank you, good questioner. Instead of a uniform tax credit for all, it is appropriate to increase child benefits, which help families that are more vulnerable. If the additional tax-free income affects only those who have two or more children enough, we will also talk about those who have one child. At the moment, we have focused our attention more on children's benefits. If you look at the overall rise in tax-free income, you will surely note that tax-free income increases for all people, including parents.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U88	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U89	Thank you, manager. Minister of Finance! This time, I will ask you a little more specifically, and the question concerns the competitiveness of businesses. I will read you specific figures and be good, comment on them. The excise duty on diesel fuel in Lithuania is EUR 330 per 1000 litres, which is the minimum rate for the European Union, in Latvia 332 and in Estonia will be EUR 448 from next year. Perhaps you can comment on this and tell us whether there is any reason to force drivers to refuel in Estonia. Due to this regulation, the Estonian state loses both excise and VAT money, which goes to Latvia. I ask: why does our government support the Latvian economy? Are we doing so well ourselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U90	Thank you. Of course, every government wants to see and contribute to the development of the country's entrepreneurship. This is what the Estonian Government wants. The potential increase in cross-border trade has also been taken into account in these impact analyses. In addition, it has been heard that close neighbours are reviewing their excise policy. If excise policy is not changed, Estonia must be ready to make changes in its policy in the near future, and we can come back to that in the coming years. If you note, the Government of the Republic has taken a decision to cancel part of the tax changes planned for 2019, as it was difficult to assess the impact of tax changes at that point. If no other country raised any excise duty in the coming years, we would be clearly out of competition. So if, in the coming years, our immediate neighbours do not make any tax policy decisions regarding excise duties, Estonia will have to monitor closely whether our turnover on the fuel market will fall and whether our excise taxes will decrease as a result of our excise policy. And if cross-border trade creates a situation where there is a very clear fiscal impact on the state budget, then of course we must review our decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U91	George Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U92	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Finance! I look at Amendments 34 to 37. All of these relate to raising the tax-free minimum. I am clearly in agreement with Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, who promised before the elections in Harju and Raplamaa, where he applied for the tax-free minimum to rise to EUR 300. This is not what the current government is planning, although the amendments 34 to 37 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party foresee that it will gradually rise to EUR 300. Please tell me straight: who, after all, blocked the introduction of the EUR 300 tax-free minimum proposed by the Reform Party through your IRL or the Social Democrats?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U93	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned that Estonia is successful in competing for tourists and is ahead of neighbouring countries. Having been in the field of tourism for 15 years, I can say that this is not the case. Especially in recent years, we have seen a steady decline in the number of tourists. Estonia has achieved some success thanks only to Finns and Russians. At present, in a new international situation, tourists are becoming increasingly scarcer from a far-off country. Our advantage so far has been the preferential price, especially in accommodation. This price is no longer so favourable when raising VAT on accommodation establishments, and this clearly reduces our competitiveness. Has the government really not been able to look at the broader picture, to look at the international situation, and to consider that we can no longer get as many tourists from Russia as on better days, and that the Finns' bed will reduce the visits of the Finns?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U94	Thank you. The question has now been asked, and your time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U95	Thank you. Yes, of course, the government has analysed the situation and looked at the various measures. That is why the government has taken a decision not to come to Parliament today with its original idea. The original idea was to increase the VAT rate for accommodation establishments from 9% to a standard rate of 20%. On the basis of the analysis, the Government has decided to keep it at a preferential rate and to anticipate an increase of only 5% instead of an increase of 11%.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U96	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U97	Thank you. Good minister! The Estonian tourism sector has already been hit hard by the collapse of the Russian market. Now you want to strike another blow, raising VAT from 9% to 14%. How can you read an analysis of the impact of this increase in VAT on the shadow economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U98	Thank you. If you have noticed, the draft explanatory memorandum gives an overview of the effects of the various tax changes, including the effects of raising VAT on hotels. I think that we must now pay attention to one very important sector, which your colleague Imre Sooäär mentioned in this speech chair at first reading. I mean, non-legal accommodation. I think that we should certainly pay attention to this in the future. This is an area where the country is losing taxes and, at the same time, it is an unhealthy competition. If services are provided in this way, it is possible not only to squall the market but also to simply not pay taxes to the State. Honest operators are not able to compete with such providers. I think this is an issue that will definitely have to be dealt with in the near future. As Mr Sooäär said, Parliament's support group also contributes to this by identifying the issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U99	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I have a question that relates to agriculture. We all know that farmers are now facing another very serious crisis, which is not due to farmers, but rather to the geopolitical situation. Do you not think that, in this situation, we should still grant them any benefits, whether or not with regard to the rate of excise duty on the fuel they use? Why raise it right now when this is a difficult situation? We are just going to show farmers that they are not important at all for our country. Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U101	No, I don't agree with that. In order not to restrict myself to such a short answer, I also explain why I say so. There has been a long discussion in the Estonian country about the fact that a specially labelled or painted fuel with a lower rate of excise duty should be abolished. It has been mentioned in these negotiations that, in agriculture too, the use of specially labelled fuel should be stopped. There is currently a situation in which almost everything has disappeared from the use of previously specially labelled fuel. Farmers will not have lost it, they will still be able to use it. So this is certainly an example of the measures with which the state continues to support Estonian agriculture. Not to mention, of course, the various subsidies coming from the European Union. However, I gave a concrete example of this measure, as excise duties are also mentioned today.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U102	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U103	Mr. Secretary of Finance! There are about 500 boilers in Estonia that use oil shale fuel oil. Many boilers have oil shale oil as a base fuel. To what extent have you, Mr Finance Minister, dealt with possible compensation mechanisms for consumers who use domestic oil shale fuel oil? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U104	Thank you. When I answered a question asked earlier in the Chamber, I stated that oil shale fuel oil is mainly used to keep homes, homes warm, and the state has allocated money over the years so that the apartment buildings can be insulated. And we will continue this investment. So let all your voters know that this opportunity can be used through KredEx in the near future. This option will not go away and it could and should be used. There is no point in heating air, which we often do. After all, we know the situation in which we have a housing fund that has been acquired as a Soviet inheritance.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U105	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U106	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Finance! When Äripäev challenged the Prime Minister's lack of vision, he began to refer to Estonia in different rankings without understanding that he was asking where we should be, not where we have come from. If, under the pressure of the parties in power, these tax increases are accepted today, where do you think we are on our way? What vision do these tax increases support?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U107	Thank you. Of course, businesses working in this sector are concerned, and they feel for a reason. I would like to stress once again that an increase in the rate of preferential VAT from 9% to only 14% will also lead to an increase in the price of our accommodation services by 3%. I've met the management of EAS. EAS has carried out a larger study of what measures could and should be in order to increase the attractiveness of Estonia as a tourist country, so that more tourists come here. If there are more tourists, there is also more turnover, which in turn means that other economic indicators, including profits, are likely to improve. EAS has said that one important measure is certainly the opening of direct lines. They usually refer to air routes, but also to public transport. Direct lines are one of the major priorities that we should work hard to develop in the future. If you look back in history, you will see that Estonia has acted in this direction to bring different airlines here, offering them opportunities to open routes between Tallinn and other European cities. EAS has also said that attention should be paid to the various tourist attractions and that, in addition to Lottemaa, the so-called Lottemaa 2 and Lottemaa 3. If it is possible to create exciting places in different parts of Estonia where tourists would like to come, it would also attract visitors to the counties. This is the so-called rural tourism measure. EAS has carried out studies on this subject and introduced them, of course, to the Minister for Enterprise, whose task is to develop further measures in the near future, in the nearest half of a year. I would also like to stress that, if we have spoken here several times today about this €6 million extra taxpayer money, it was already known that tens of millions of European Union money could be used mainly in the tourism sector through EAS to implement measures in the coming years. In part, the fiscal support of the Estonian state is not only 6 million. All in all, we are talking about the EUR 70 to 80 million expected to be placed in this sector in the financial perspective for the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U108	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U109	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! We can see that the government, with the support of brutal coalition parties, is pushing through the rise in VAT on accommodation facilities, although tourism operators send us e-mails every day so that this should not be done because it reduces competitiveness. But I would rather talk about the same reduction in labour taxes that the Chamber of Industry has very much approved. You have mentioned this at every opportunity. However, if the Chamber of Commerce complains that it is a little too little, have you not thought that really, a reduction of 0.5 plus 0.5, or 1%, will make a sum so small that it will not be possible to create new jobs and raise wages? In this sense, it could have been gone, and instead it could have made other good proposals for the 90 million which are related to this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U110	Thank you. Let us think in a different direction. Let us think more about how to further increase our ability to reduce labour taxes in the near future. Dear Members, if you are in agreement with me that labour taxes can and should decrease, let us consider how, after a reduction of 1% in social tax in the coming years, 0.5% in 2017 and 0.5% more in 2018. Labour taxes have a great significance for Estonia; they are higher than the European average. And so far we have been of the opinion that labour taxes should be lowered. So let us think in this direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U111	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U112	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! You said my questions were impressive. Thank you for this compliment! And I'll explain. I mean, no matter what the wave at sea is, you are now causing a storm, and this wave is destroying and crushing, and there is always silence and peace at the bottom of the sea. It's us at the bottom. And now I have this question. You've made people think that it's going to be all right now, that people on small wages are going to have a lot of money. Since I'm a teacher, I often do maths, and very quickly do maths. If you have introduced tax policy changes to your law, how much will you calculate that the person receiving the minimum wage will have extra money for the cart?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U113	Thank you, good questioner. Now we come to what we may have had little at first reading. I'd call it labeling. And when they start tagging, my answers get shorter and maybe unconstructive. It's some kind of fly-in-the-head thing, and what I'm feeling right now, and so on. But of course you have the right to ask. If we go into content now, if you look at the changes that are on your tables today, you will see that it clearly states what the income of one person will be if it is either a low wage or an average wage or a higher salary. Also, depending on whether a person lives in a family with several children or does not live in a family with more than one child, you will see for each tax change what the expected income of that person will be. And if you notice, it's a positive sign, a very clear positive sign.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U114	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U115	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Once this law enters into force, the price of diesel will become the highest in Europe and the price of petrol will catch up with the Nordic level. The Finnish state, where wages, including the minimum wage, are about four times higher than in Estonia, compensates fuel costs for people living in scattered areas because they are really high. We don't have that chance. Why are you punishing people living in rural areas with higher fuel prices? Why is this bill not intended to cover fuel costs for people living on land?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U116	Thank you, good questioner! You will tend to produce one example and build your question on one example. But look at the whole thing! That's why the whole package has been brought to your table. Look at the whole thing! Look at the increase in income for people living in rural areas. Look at the increase in these people's incomes due to the increase in tax-free income. Look at the increase in income for these people thanks to the return of low-paid income tax, which we are about to process.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U117	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U118	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, First of all, the recognition that today you have promised to take action against illegal accommodation in Estonia. But I'd like to make a small correction. You read VAT in other countries, but it was outdated data. In particular, as of 1 January 2015, the Danish Government introduced 0% VAT on conference tourism accommodation, which is an even greater advantage than just the special nature of VAT, and Norway reduced VAT on accommodation and other tourism services to 8%. Although you cannot say this from this remote point of view as a defender of the government's position, it is clear that the rise in our prices cannot have a positive impact on our competitiveness. All the more so as Finland has a recession and the number of tourists coming from the east is 50% less. Can Estonia not also consider 0% VAT as in Denmark, where there is a clear increase in the turnover of export services? The Danish Government is currently making a very strong campaign to attract more conference tourists to Denmark, as this service is subject to VAT at 0%. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U119	Thank you. As Minister of Finance, I wouldn't want to make any promises to you here. If you are asking for my personal opinion, it is also important to analyse what it means to bring about one or the other tax change in its nature. We will analyse this when you are ready to discuss this in the future! I know that a tourism-related support group has been set up in Parliament. Let us discuss which tax measures could improve competitiveness on the one hand and national fiscal indicators on the other. As I have said, there cannot be a view that one or the other issue must not or must not be discussed. Certainly the measures that other countries will take will also give us the opportunity to learn from their experience how to act properly.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U120	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U121	Thank you. Mr Secretary of Finance. We sit here not for the first time and discuss how to carry out the tasks set out in the coalition agreement. And not for the first time, we are talking about excise duties. You said we'd focus on the money we have. But we're not doing anything to get the country's wallet a lot fatter. All these steps relate only to the review of excise duties, and they do not provide anything in essence, because these increases are directed against our Estonian people. Why don't you look for other ways to get the country's wallet a little fatter, and you could fulfill all the promises of the coalition treaty?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U122	Thank you. Good questioner! I'm sorry to say this, but you're a little wrong. You are wrong that the daily activities of the Estonian Government are not just about making tax changes. True, if you look at the coalition agreement, you will see that apart from tax policy measures, there are a number of other measures that guide Estonia's competitiveness and help our export industry. There are different measures relating to KredEx and EAS for this purpose. So not all are based on tax changes alone.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U123	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U124	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! Data from Statistics Estonia show that in March we had a 9% lower number of tourists than at the same time last year. The main export markets in the tourism sector, such as Finland and Russia, are still under recession and there is no reason to assume that this trend will change in the near future. The government, however, is planning to increase VAT on accommodation establishments. What is your estimate of the reduction in the number of tourists due to this tax change?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U125	Thank you. Look at the impact analysis, which is also set out in the explanatory memorandum, and you will see that we have taken into account that the price of the counter may increase by nearly 3%. But we will do everything we can to ensure that, in the near future, we see not a drop in the number of tourists, but an increase in the number of tourists. Of course, we are bound by our closest neighbours, where most tourists go to Estonia. This link is inevitable and not only in the tourism sector, but also in trade and other areas. Of course, if our eastern neighbour imposes double customs duties, there will automatically be setbacks not only in the tourism business, but also in other sectors. But now Estonia has to deal with how to make Estonia as a tourist country as attractive as possible, and that is what we should pay our attention to today.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U126	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, The rule that tax increases must be known six months before entry into force is reasonable or at least seemingly reasonable. But it also has a bad side. This is the fact that the Riigikogu is therefore under quite strong time pressure. We have not, as we have not noticed, that the government has tried to put these drafts to the proceedings in good time so that we can discuss them more substantially. The practice of linking a draft to a question of trust may start to happen again, so that tax changes can quickly be pushed through. Hopefully, however, what's going on here today will not become a system, but I see a pretty serious threat to that. Consequently, I ask: as a minister, what are you going to do in order to ensure that the role of the Riigikogu in the processing of tax laws will not be marginalised in the future, just as it has already been marginalised in the budgetary process?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U128	Thank you. If you look at a particular process, you will see that the government did not take any step towards a solution to the vote of confidence until it became aware that the Prime Minister would be distrusted. It's very clearly linked. The Prime Minister has said that if there is a wish to give a vote of distrust to the Prime Minister and thus to the entire government, it means that the policy that the Government wants to implement should be put to the vote. As far as the self-regulation mechanism in Parliament is concerned, Parliament itself is saying how one or the other procedure must take place, not the Minister telling Parliament how one or the other procedure must take place. Parliament is saying this both in terms of its own actions and to the executive body.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U129	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U130	Thank you. There's nothing hidden. Dear Members, old and new, I assure you that nothing is hidden anywhere. On the contrary, if you look at the changes that the government is planning to make in the near future, this has also been said more about putting the country's budgetary strategy together. These documents are publicly available on the website of the Ministry of Finance as well as on other public websites. You can see that the government is also planning to save its own expenses. What do I mean by that? You will see that in the coming years, the government wants to reduce the costs associated with the day-to-day management of the country. The government wants to review its staff policy because it sees clear savings in this area. So the government is not only dealing with possible tax changes that are expected to increase revenue. This is a very important aspect, and I stress it, because in previous years, the government has not reviewed its spending policy in the context of a contraction. That, I think, we will see the 2016 budget in the process.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U131	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U132	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Once again, I come to the issue of raising excise duties on oil shale and oil shale oil, as this makes heat energy more expensive for final consumers in Ida-Viru County. The lifeline you have offered is the support mechanism for insulation apartment buildings, according to which 10% higher support rates apply in Ida-Virumaa than elsewhere. This is positive in itself, but I must say that the real estate market in Ida-Virumaa is at a very low level and the investment made in an apartment building is rapidly losing its value as a result. In my opinion, people must first have a firm conviction that the region is developing, only then will they take the decision to invest in the house. Today, however, we are weakening both the oil shale sector and the tourism sector, both of which are extremely important in this region. What are the measures that actually compensate for the negative effects of the measures taken in this draft, which, to the greatest extent, occur in Ida-Virumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U133	Thank you. The impact of these measures is felt in the wallet of every human being, including every Eastern virumaan. I've said that many times today. Its effect is guaranteed by tax changes. If you look at the rise in people's wages, I am not only talking about tax movements, I am also talking about the rise in wages, you will see that in the coming years wages will rise by 5% in the middle. In Ida-Virumaa, the average wage is currently lower than the average wage in Estonia. The average wage in Estonia was 1010 euros in the first quarter; it was clearly lower in Ida-Virumaa, about 840 euros. However, looking at forecasts, also looking at the effects of tax changes, you may note that, at this level of pay, the Eastern virumaan still retains more money than the loss caused by specific tax changes that increase its fuel costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U134	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U135	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I have no unexpected question, I have talked about this here before. But since you have said in your answers that you also analysed the situation from the position of neighbouring countries and confirmed that there may be a need to amend one or the other decision, I will ask you again. How could a country's competitiveness be affected if the excise duty on diesel is not increased by 14% in 2016, but by less than 10%, as in petrol? This could be covered by a faster increase in tobacco excise duty: instead of 8%, 10% in 2016 and 2017. Secondly, by reviewing the structure of excise duties on tobacco, the proportion of the fixed excise duty could be proportionally altered and thirdly introduced into the year 2016 for the taxation of e-cigarettes. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U136	Thank you. This question contained a number of questions. I understand that your main question was whether the excise duty on diesel should not rise by 14% but by 10% next year. In order for both diesel and petrol excise duty to increase by 10% and this difference of 4% to be compensated by additional tax on possible vices. That was, I understand, the main focus of your question. At the moment, the government has come up with the proposal on the table. And the content of this proposal is, in summary, the harmonisation of taxes depending on the energy content of heating fuels. This has been the general basis for an increase in excise duty on diesel of 14% and for petrol of 10% and then 10%.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U137	Thank you, good questioner! Really, now I feel that our discussion field is getting wider and wider. I guess I've given it a little boost myself because I've been answering more and more questions. I will now take this opportunity and bring the issue of the round of questions and answers back to the context of the specific draft. I hope you don't mind if we fail to link Greece's problem with a tax-free minimum and a possible increase in excise duties on fuel.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U138	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U139	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You have repeatedly stated today that this is the government's comprehensive tax package, that our business environment is getting better, that people will have more money and that life will certainly be more beautiful and better. On the other hand, you are certainly aware that the Chamber of Commerce, a number of entrepreneurs, is opposed to these tax increases. Please, what kind of analysis, however, is your belief that everything will be better if such complex analyses have not been carried out at all? Is that faith? Is that a prophecy? Is that hope?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U140	Thank you, good questioner. If you look at the explanatory statement at first reading and see, it's quite substantial, you can also see the effect that one or the other change can have. In my first - reading speech, I also pointed out how one or the other should be assessed. I also said that if excise duties on fuel are increased, we can expect the secret market to grow and cross-border trade to increase. So I'm not just talking about positive effects, we're seeing them, but we're seeing negative effects. I understand that our task in this Chamber today is to discuss the negative effects, because it is very important how big they are. You will see that these effects have been identified, taken into account. In order to reduce several impacts, the country is taking steps, for example, to take steps against an increase in the share of the secret market. I have also announced from this speaker that the state will allocate additional investments to increase the capacity of the Tax and Customs Board. If we do not increase this capacity, we may not be able to see the expected receipts in the state budget in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U141	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You have repeatedly said that the government relies on analysis. My question relates precisely to analyses. Has the government carried out a serious and competent analysis of how the Estonian economy, our budget will be affected by Greece's potential bankruptcy and exit from the euro zone? Are the tax changes currently planned perhaps not linked to the results of this analysis?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U142	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U143	Thank you, my good colleague. Nobody slowed down. It is always necessary to examine whether the costs and benefits are in balance. At the moment, I can tell the party on my right that it is one of the few parties that is proposing their amendments on the basis of the balance between revenue and expenditure. If I like it, there's a separate question. But they will. There's an interesting nuance in your case. You are introducing amendments that will generate additional costs for the country, but you will not show what could be the source of the cover. You're not saying that. You see, coalition negotiations and government agreements must also be based on cost-benefit balance. Of course, everyone's interest would be to raise the tax-free minimum to EUR 300 in the coming years. Moreover, everyone's interest in Tallinn in the coming years would certainly be to make the Tartu highway four lines and raise pensions considerably more than we are able to raise. However, we must be guided by the financial opportunities we have and, in these financial opportunities, focus our attention on those who need it most, using public money effectively.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U144	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. In answering one earlier question, you said that neither the government nor you personally want to interfere with Parliament's decision-making power or the organisation of work. However, by linking the three drafts to the question of trust, you did just that. Another small example of how you and the government don't combine words and actions. According to the executive edition of the Rules of Procedure, this link to the trust issue is used in three cases: in a crisis situation, in a minority government situation or in a situation where the government needs to overcome the differences that prevail among the majority of the members of the Riigikogu, or coalition ambassadors. Please state, for what reason, as a member of your government, you voted in favour of linking this draft to a question of trust. Have you fallen into a minority government? Is there a crisis situation in Estonia, or is it a question that there are differences between the coalition ambassadors of Parliament?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U146	Thank you. I can assure you here that there is no disagreement. This is a government decision that has been taken on a proposal from the Prime Minister. And since the Centre Party has wished to tie the whole process to the vote on the Prime Minister's mistrust, the government has taken the view that in this case it is reasonable to link the whole package of drafts on the basis of which you have made a declaration of mistrust by the Prime Minister with the government's trust. It is important to us that Estonia goes on and decisions are made.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U147	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U148	Thank you. Minister of Finance! When you answered the question of Jüri Ratas, you misled the Riigikogu's plenary, saying that we have not taken into account the benefits and costs when drafting the amendments to the Centre Party. Yes, we are. With the exception of the 1% reduction in social tax, which will cost nearly EUR 900 million from the state budget, the need to increase excise duties will disappear. This is a very clear question of choice, the costs and benefits are balanced. However, according to your proposal, there does not seem to be a balance between costs and benefits. For example, regarding the rise in excise duties on fuel, you feel that public transport is becoming more expensive on the county lines, rail and ferry traffic, but it has not been shown that it is also a cost to the state budget. On the contrary, when excise duties are raised, you only count revenue. What, though, is the additional cost of public transport planned by you next year and, for example, the Police and Border Guard Board, who will obviously have to reduce the number of hours driving an operational machine or find extra money to pay for more expensive car fuel?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U149	Thank you. The additional cost to the State is 4 to 5%. During the 2016 budget procedure, we will also make the necessary changes. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has already signalled that this issue needs to be addressed. When we draw up the 2016 budget, we will certainly look at this as well. So it certainly cannot be said that this will not be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U150	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U151	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Once, the IRL was a conservative party and made it clear that taxes were not being played. Now you're saying there's a need to be flexible with taxes. In my opinion, taxes should be delivered in a very responsible manner. However, the Riigikogu cannot act responsibly now because it has been put into the role of a tank player. Would you support such a regulation that the government can come before the Riigikogu with proposals to change taxes at least four months before their possible entry into force? Perhaps then we could also debate what you have always emphasised here today, and we could try to actually take responsibility for the country. We don't share that responsibility right now. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U152	Thank you. I'd rather look the other way. In the second direction, I mean that I do not consider it appropriate to ease the decision taken at the last session of the last Riigikogu, according to which tax changes that may worsen the economic environment of companies must have been adopted at least six months before entry into force. If you say that maybe you can take this limit to four months, I would look in the opposite direction, for example, to extend it to one year in the future. That would be an issue that we could discuss in this House sometime. Tax changes could be subject to the rule that they should be adopted not four months but 12 months before the law enters into force.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U153	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U154	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. There is no doubt that the government and every ministry have kept enough free money in the state budget, which is hidden in different lines and records, and which is difficult to grasp in the state budget, which has been made extraordinarily difficult in accounting terms. Why does the government not want to review the budget and related activities rather than raising taxes and to think about whether everything is justified and necessary? Perhaps this is the way to find the resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U155	Thank you, good questioner. If you look at this comprehensive tax package in its overall effect, you will see that in the coming years the tax-free minimum will rise and child subsidies will increase. You will also see that low-paid workers are practically no longer required to pay income tax due to income tax refunds. Moreover, you will see that Estonian entrepreneurs will have the opportunity to use almost 90 million euros in total, by which the revenue side of the state budget will suffer, either to increase their investments or to raise employees' wages. If you say that these measures are not necessary for Estonia, that these measures do not improve the situation of Estonian people or Estonian entrepreneurs, then the question for me is what measures will do this. Are these measures a return to corporate tax, higher income tax on wages or various property taxes on real estate, cars, other assets? Those are the questions. The current government has put its measures on your table and linked its vision of tax policy changes in the coming years to a vote of confidence.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U156	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U157	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I'm a little upset with you guys for giving me a lecture on conservatism here. The solution to the conservative world view is that taxes are low and tax money is not taken away from people so that the state can spend it through the Social Security Office or through some kind of EAS campaign. You said that it was important for the government that Estonia should proceed. For the opposition, however, it is quite obvious that, unfortunately, with these tax increases, Estonia is going back, at least in economic terms. I didn't get an answer last time about whether you think this 4.4 billion is a budget hole or whether it's just a calculated loss of revenue. However, as far as taking risks are concerned, we feel it is quite obvious that the government's analyses are not actually adequate and that too high risks are being taken. However, I ask my question again: is this 4.4 billion a deficit in the state budget or a calculated loss of income?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U158	Thank you. If the loss of income is not a financial, fiscal hole, then I have a question of what it is. If you say that EUR 4.4 billion is not collected in the state budget, you can say 'hole', you can say 'empty' or use some other synonym. The fact is that a reduction in the VAT rate from 20% to 10% would result in a loss of revenue of almost 4.4 billion over four years, estimated by the current turnover generated by the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U159	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U160	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Right now, hot topic is possible immigration, but I'm asking about emigration. How do you feel about the impact of the extensive tax increases you are planning to implement here on the emigration of the Estonian people?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U161	Thank you. Look how interesting it is! It's like we're back at first reading now. Why am I saying this? I am therefore saying that at first reading we are talking about the general principles of the draft and at second reading we are concentrating more on the amendments. But in order for things to be clear, and since this is also a very sensitive issue, the draft is also linked to the vote on the government's trust, I say to you that it is precisely the measures that are on your desks today that will help to reduce emigration. And why? If you've noticed, there's a lot of low-paid people among emigrants. And if we look at the measures we are discussing today that the government wants to implement, starting with the refund of income tax to low-paid people and ending with an increase in tax-free income, we will see that more and more opportunities are being created to cope with working in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U162	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U163	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. You have spoken with enthusiasm about the need to reduce labour taxes. One idea of how to encourage the creation of high-paid jobs and perhaps the bringing home of talent is, as we know, the introduction of a social tax ceiling. In many countries, including our neighbouring Latvia, this applies. As Minister of Finance, what do you think of this idea? Why didn't this goal come into the coalition agreement, and are you ever going to come before us with this idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U164	Thank you. First of all, my personal opinion. I support this idea and I think that it is a good idea for creating high-paid jobs and, consequently, increasing Estonia's attractiveness. Seriously! At the same time, it is an expensive measure in nature. An expensive measure in this context, that it is always necessary to calculate and look at what one or the other measure means, on the one hand, to the reputation of the state, which could have a positive impact, and, on the other hand, to what it means from the point of view of the revenue from the state budget. The potential introduction of a social tax ceiling has been raised in quite a number of business organisations. The Service Economy Chamber has perhaps been the most active in keeping it on the agenda. This topic was also included in the coalition negotiations before the government agreement was concluded. There were a lot of issues upstairs. I would also like to remind you of the reduction in the unemployment contribution rate that was discussed before the elections, but which we do not see at the moment in the list of tax changes. It is always the case that there are a lot of good ideas on the table when discussing a government union agreement that we all want to implement, but we have to choose what changes can be made within the available resource. Let us not forget that the changes that you have on the tables today will cause an additional 400 million euros to be made available to Estonian residents in 2019. So, in budgetary terms, it is a package of expensive measures. On the other hand, it gives people the opportunity to make investments or to consume something in the amount of this money. In general, I think that this debate, whether to introduce social tax as cap, is three times or four times the Estonian average or some other level, could come back in the future. The only question is that, since it requires a certain amount of revenue not being paid into the budget, we should take very much into account the possibilities of our own budget. But basically, I'm positive about the idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U165	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U166	Dear Chairman, Honourable Minister of Finance! You've been very sympathetic about the fact that finance is a much more complicated thing than some primitive mechanics or addition and subtraction table. Different factors need to be taken into account, not only how things are now, but also which trends emerge from one or the other change. However, I would turn back to the issue of income tax for accommodation establishments and I will again quote hotel businessmen who have expressed their very great concern at the development trends in particular. They claim that Estonia is going to lag behind in a number of areas supporting tourism, such as air transport. They look jealously at how ambitiously and well Riga Airport has tried to become a regional hub and make us a periphery or a periphery. I thought I'd ask you to let our businessmen hear: maybe you have something to tell them that will eliminate this threat or disprove their fears? What good have we done in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U167	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U168	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I'm really sorry you didn't quite understand my last question. My suggestion was that the government should come before the Riigikogu at least four months earlier before the entry into force of six months. But that's my second question. Accommodation establishments are often an important employer in local governments, but as sad as it may be, sometimes they lack labour, which comes from the fact that wages are low. Under the leadership of the Reform Party, this reform is now being carried out, leading to a further increase in the labour shortages of accommodation facilities. Are you in favour of this, or do you have some kind of compensatory measure to help housing institutions grow their payroll and keep Estonia's workforce here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U169	Thank you. First of all, six months and four months. We'll come back to that once. In this context, it must be understood that there will be negotiations before the law enters into force for six months. However, it is quite difficult to define what could and should be the length of the negotiation phase. It can still be assumed that it is more accurate and understandable to define when one or the other tax change must enter into force. You can negotiate very long and very short. That's one. Your main question was whether the government is working to get people to work in Estonia. I think that a very good example is the package of tax changes aimed at low-wage earners, which we will be talking about in the next draft procedure. So you can ask me some questions. But it is a good measure to bring people to the labour market, to interest them. You ask how people who are already working can be further motivated to work on how to increase their pay. For example, you brought the hotel industry. As you know, hotel industry is one of the business sectors whose employees are included in the lowest profit and loss account. If you note, this package of tax changes aimed at low-paid people means precisely this revenue bill, and these are certainly one of the measures that will also help people working in this particular area.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U170	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U171	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, When I heard your answer to my last question, I realized I had to thank you. Thank you, Minister for Finance, for the fact that farmers can use blue fuel, and thank you, Mr Sven Sester, for the fact that farmers can apply for euro payments. But all of this is actually relative. I, too, am against these subsidies in general, and I think that it is better not to have them, but they are in the European Union, and in this Union we must compete with other countries. It's the same with special fuel. Farmers in Latvia do not have to pay any excise duty when buying it; our farmers have to pay no excise duty. If even Latvia finds an opportunity, not to mention the old Europe, to pay top-up, how can our farmers compete with them?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U172	Thank you. Look at the whole picture! There is no point in looking at just one factor, or the level of excise duties on a specific fuel. Look at the other fiscal policy measures in two countries!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U173	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! Has the government started to develop a road tax system in Estonia? Is there a intention to deal with this, and what is your view on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U174	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I still like to give concrete examples, because they help to understand the situation that arises. If you look at one transport company and not at the very least, it employs about 2 000 people and owns more than 500 diesel vehicles, the company's cost will increase by EUR 4.5 million after the entry into force of excise increases. If we assume that this transport company is engaged in transit transport, what makes us believe that they will remain in Estonia to buy diesel fuel rather than take it from Latvia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U175	Thank you. Dear Minister, As you told us several times, let's look at the whole picture. When we think of earthlings, you claim that their profits are increasing. On the other hand, fuel prices are rising, food and services prices are rising, public transport fares are rising. Doesn't it seem to you that this whole tax package is a big scam, you give it with one hand and you take it with the other hand?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U176	No, it doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U177	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U178	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Unfortunately, at first reading, this question could not be asked, so I will ask now, looking at the big picture as well. The results of the new public opinion poll have just become public. Your party isn't doing very well. What is it now? Are people, as the Prime Minister often points out here, stupid and not understanding your noble goals or is it something else? Perhaps the people will hear it from you, so why do you not appreciate your efforts and efforts in tax policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U179	Thank you. I'm glad you were probably in the hall at first reading. I do not know why you could not ask me earlier, but your current questions do not relate to this draft and specific amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U180	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U181	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, The special nature of VAT on accommodation services is currently valid in 25 EU countries and is mainly used to increase competitiveness, especially in the field of external tourism. It was heard that the government union originally intended to eliminate the distinction at all, which shows that the government probably did not have a sufficient understanding of what was happening in the sector when considering these decisions. Please tell us why the Republic of Estonia still does not involve enough experts in making such decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U182	Thank you. Estonia has and will have a favourable rate of VAT in this area, and the government has shown its willingness to communicate with various interest groups and experts in order to make the right decision, which is fiscally and also least detrimental to the competitiveness of companies. The alternative would have been for the government to take a stand and even go through the stone wall, but it does not back down. If you note, now the government has come before you with slightly different tax-amending proposals than it announced in society in the first few weeks or in the first month. The government relies on this information and on the individuals that both experts and interest groups give it in the form of feedback. In this context, the VAT concession rate for accommodation establishments will remain valid in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U183	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U184	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Government representatives often refer to the OECD's recommendation that Estonia could abolish inefficient tax differences. Tourism companies point out that there is no recommendation in the latest OECD report. This recommendation was also mentioned in the 2012 report, which does not mention, however, the specific nature of VAT on accommodation services as an inefficient tax distinction. Why does the Government Union interpret the outdated OECD report unilaterally?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U185	Thank you. The government is guided in its decision-making by the various attributes it receives at the highest level of expertise. The OECD has given different attributes, and one of them is, like you, linked to tax differences, and international organisations still believe that there are not many of them in Estonia, but that they should be abolished wherever possible. International institutions have also given an indication that Estonia should pay more attention to low-paid people, and that is what the government is doing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U186	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U187	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In 2011, the current Chairman of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestor, said that the government is simply trying to cross the Riigikogu for convenience with such clustering requirements. Do you disagree? Do you go against him and share the principle that this is not a crossing of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U188	Thank you. I am still of the opinion that draft laws which go beyond the borders of one of the Commission's areas are unacceptable. I am still in that position, and this opinion has also been on the speaker's side. I will be honest with you that this has been my opinion in the past and continues to be. If you note, the income tax refund for low-wage earners, which we are going to deal with as the next draft, and where I come to answer questions in the same way before you, has not been included in this comprehensive tax package. This is precisely because, although presented by the same minister, it is a draft in the area of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U189	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U190	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! The explanatory memorandum to the draft law contains the title "Activities, expected costs and revenues of the State and local government involved in the implementation of the Act'. There has been no talk today on this subject, and I now point out that in the four or five paragraphs under this heading, I do not know how to read that there is something written here about how the local government's costs and revenues are going to develop. Could you explain that a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U191	Thank you. There are two things we have to deal with today. One is that Estonia would be attractive, the other is that Estonian entrepreneurs would be competitive and it would be good for Estonian residents to live in this country. These are the measures that we have to deal with today. If we look at how our steps coincide with our vision, first of all, we have decided to channel additional taxpayers' money into the tourism sector. We'll do it. Secondly, we must ensure greater competitiveness for entrepreneurs in order to operate and develop in Estonia. We do this by lowering social security contributions. We must help the people of Estonia, especially the low-paid, to cope better in everyday life. We'll do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U192	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U193	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I'm sure you've known for a long time that the annual negotiations between the local government and the state are taking place at the Ministry of Finance. One of the points of concern for which no agreement has been reached for years is the extent to which the state should be involved in student transport. If the excise duty on fuel increases significantly and there is additional VAT, it is clear that local authorities will find it even more difficult to transport students, while school buses are often quite large. Have you already decided in negotiations with local authorities how much you will increase the allocation to local authorities so that student transport will still work very nicely?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U194	Thank you. Negotiations on the 2016 budget are only just starting and all revenue and expenditure sides will certainly be reviewed. The negotiations must show what costs are compensated for and what the expected revenues are. This is already the next dispute during the next negotiations, which will begin in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U195	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U196	Thank you. This issue is not related to today's draft, but I am telling you, however, that in the near future we should deal with it. Indeed, there are only two countries in Europe, if I am not mistaken now, I will say this by heart, I think Estonia and Finland, who do not have a road user tax. I'm sure we should think about it, but today, I stress, it's not on the table. If you want to deal with tolls, this must also be accompanied by an analysis of what this entails. But you will not see such a change when you enter into force today's bill as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U197	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U198	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The rise in tobacco and other excise duties reduces the volume of purchases by tourists visiting the country. Have you calculated how many excise duties Estonia loses because tourists spend less money here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U199	Thank you. If you look at the impact analysis, you will see that it is not based on the exact amount of extra charge that should result from the increase in excise duty. You will see that greater cross-border trade, as well as a potential secret market, have been taken into account. It cannot be denied that any tax increase could inevitably increase the secret market, and that is why the state will take additional measures. All this elasticity of prices, the secret market and cross-border trade have been taken into account in the final impact analysis, as well as how people can change their consumption patterns in terms of their health.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U200	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U201	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Unfortunately, I have not found a complex impact analysis in this explanatory memorandum, a comprehensive socio-economic analysis. However, the effects of increased excise duties, as well as border trade, have been dealt with separately. But here's my question. You previously indicated in one reply that you had involved a lot of experts. Who are these experts? At the same time, can we read from the Postman today that this is a very bad legislative practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U202	Thank you. Well, beauty is always in the eyes of the viewer, and there's a question of who to think of as an expert or not. When, as Minister of Finance, I invited the parties who were all more or less involved in tourism, they asked where the experts were. There were representatives of the Association of Estonian Hotels and Restaurants, spaturism and rural tourism, as well as large business organisations, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Confederation of Employers and so on. So I'd like to ask you to apologize, these are the people who operate on this market every day, who can still be a better expert than they are. If you note, after the meeting that the Minister of Finance had arranged, we began to discuss the next steps for possible relief. It identified real bottlenecks that could arise if VAT in this sector increased from 9% to 20% standard. The best expert is the person who works in this market. These are the experts.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U203	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U204	Honourable Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic wants the written request of 33 members of the Riigikogu to be discussed in today's session "Publication of trust in Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas." I will therefore add this request to the agenda of today's sitting with a debate. This will take place as a second item of the agenda, i.e. after the completion of the second reading of the draft 41 and on the basis of Paragraph 56 (1) (2) and (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act. We will proceed with the second reading of Bill 41. Let's start the negotiations. First thing I'm gonna do is call Mikhail Stalnukhin. Please, five plus three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U205	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U206	Thank you. If we look at the impact of increased excise duties on fuel in different sectors, let us first note that petrol has a major impact on private consumers, as petrol is mainly consumed by private individuals. In the case of diesel, the opposite is the case: it is mainly consumed by operators. The overall impact in business is a 3% increase in the average price of final goods. Now, logistics is from another field. Logistical goods are logistics services. The analyses show that, in the middle, the impact on this sector in particular should be a 20% increase in costs. It is clear that any price increase will, of course, have a negative impact on sectors. The Association of Hotels and Restaurants still says no, we will raise VAT by any percentage, and the car operators will ask how much excise duties could be increased, certainly not at all. However, if the state wants to make one or another tax policy decision, it needs to see how companies in a particular sector survive and how the state can contribute to the good functioning of this sector. There is certainly a need to discuss in the near future the situation that Estonia is one of those countries where there is no road user fee. Our roads are used by trucks from other countries, but no one, Estonia or other countries, pays the toll. We still only have it at the minimum rate for heavy goods vehicles, but it only applies to Estonian companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U207	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U208	Thank you. The explanatory memorandum gives a detailed description of the costs and benefits in the various sectors. If you note, changes that increase people's income will ultimately also give additional income to the local government, as the local government will receive 11.6% of the income tax paid to its own budget. So all the efforts we make to make the income of Estonian people grow automatically also mean that the income base of the local government is increasing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U209	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U210	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In recent days, our e-mail addresses have received applications from both accommodation businessmen and their organisations. They will, of course, set the alarm bell and point out that there is a development plan for the tourism sector, which is designed to raise employees' wages, create new jobs and reach 5 million tourists per year in Estonia by 2020. Specialists point out that your planned increase in VAT in the tourism sector will not allow these objectives to be met and will give a pretty strong blow to our tourism economy. Unfortunately, I tend to believe in specialists more than I do politicians. Is their opinion wrong? Are they stupid?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U211	Thank you. We will make an effort to increase the number of tourists in Estonia in the near future. As I have already said today, one measure is to target this sector, in addition to the available financial resources, at EUR 6 million. This is in the period when the VAT of the tourist accommodation will rise by 5%, i.e. in 2017, 2018 and 2019, which is the cycle of this government. I think it is a common interest for all of us that Estonia will remain an attractive tourist country in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U212	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U213	Mr. Minister! I have a question about compensating for the reduction in social tax and its income in the state budget. Can you specify which specific sources will cover the deficit resulting from the 1% reduction in this tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U214	Thank you. I have already said that, in terms of revenue and expenditure, it cannot be said that it cannot be said that the costs of the Health Insurance Fund are covered by, for example, tobacco excise duties or that there will also be a specific income tax on your salary. There are no specific links between them. In the context of the state budget, revenue and expenditure are viewed in overall volumes, while, of course, each budget item is carefully weighed. In answer to your question, I can say one thing: the deficit will be fully compensated for by the sickness fund; the cover will come from the revenue side of the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U215	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U216	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You have repeatedly said, in defending this cluster bill, that it is intended to leave more money in the hands of people. We have given different examples by which we have tried to prove otherwise. You have replied that you could also give some examples of a company with a large workforce. I'm getting it now. A company with 500 employees pays all employees the average wage in Estonia, its winning half of the percentage that will enter into force next year is 800 euros per month. You said that this money could be used to raise the company's wages, for example. If 500 employees were to raise their wages, this would amount to EUR 1.60 per employee per month. In view of the increase in excise duties on fuel to be carried out in this tax package, one tank of fuel will cost EUR 10 more. The winning would be EUR 1.60 per month and the loss of EUR 10 per tank. Does it make more money or does it make more money?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U217	Thank you. Look how tending you are to ask your question! You will provide an example of a reduction in social tax in 2017 and an increase in fuel prices in 2020. If you consider the increase in fuel prices in 2016, one tank will increase by 5%. For a 40-litre tank, the increase is EUR 2.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U218	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U219	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The Centre Party has collected over 27,000 signatures against these tax increases. Isn't that an argument for the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U220	Thank you. For the government, the arguments are all appeals, in the sense that the content of the appeals must be analysed. If you had asked the people whether they wanted an increase in the tax-free minimum, whether they wanted an increase in child benefits, whether they wanted income tax to be paid back to the low-paid, you could also have submitted this answer to the government. The government is currently based on a general picture when presenting a comprehensive package of tax changes. And when you look at the overall picture, you will see that, on the one hand, consumption and vices are taxed higher, but, on the other hand, labour costs are reduced and subsidies for families with children are increasing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U221	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! You are talking about an increase in the tax-free rate of income and that it will result in an increase in income. The same fuel excise is rising. This will lead to an increase in the cost of all consumer goods and food products. I think that most people in Estonia do not believe well in the analysis you are talking about here. Hence my question to you: how you look at people and what you say to them after flying into this declared tax haven into the same hole as your party's former slogan 'Home expenses'! '?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U222	Thank you. If we look at the impact of raising excise duties on Estonian society, mostly on inflation, which is the best indicator and gives us the opportunity to assess how big we are going to have an increase in food prices and the price of goods and services at all, then we can see that the effect of increasing excise duties on inflation is a quarter of a percent per year. A quarter of a year! And now, my good colleague, let us look at people and ask them how much their real income will increase thanks to the tax changes that we are working on today.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U223	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U224	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! You said a little while ago that the 2017-2018 period is like the best time during your reign, because the great tax changes will then promote the tourism sector and whatever. It's very hard to believe that, all the more so as your desire to be in government for another four years seems optimistic. Three months after the elections, the first motion of censure is already made to the Prime Minister, the same Prime Minister who, during the previous government, harassed entrepreneurs with new rules on EUR 1000 bills and company cars, now harassing them by raising VAT and excise duties, declaring himself to be business-friendly. People have already said what they think about ratings. Do you still think you're business-friendly?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U225	Thank you. Yes, we do!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U226	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U227	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Estonian tourism organisations are of the opinion that after a considerable increase in VAT on accommodation services, they find it difficult to believe that the government will do everything in its power to support tourism unless alternative options are proposed. Maybe you can tell me how the government wants to support tourism.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U228	Thank you. I have already said this today, but I will repeat that the most important measure is certainly the additional investment of taxpayers' money in this sector. Perhaps'most important' is wrong to say, rather, it is an obvious financial measure that we are not dealing with today in the process of this draft, but in the future, in 2017, 2018, 2019, it will certainly come up with this. I think it's very important. I have emphasised this from this speaker board several times today to keep it in the annals of history. Let us not forget that the increase in preferential VAT will come on 1 January 2017, not now in the next six months. It will not even come in a year, but in a year and a half, and in that time we will focus on €6 million worth of additional financial resources. The Minister for Enterprise has been tasked with developing measures that, once again, would give greater certainty that Estonia will develop as a tourist country. That is the purpose of all of us. Profitability and turnover should increase because Estonia is an interesting country, a country where people want to come. This should certainly be a greater objective than pursuing profitability through the application of possible tax incentives.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U229	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U230	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I come back to the 1% reduction in social tax. I cannot agree with you that revenue cannot be linked to the sources of cover and defined as revenue covering certain costs. I would point out, for example, that we have 20% of our social tax allocated to the pension fund. So far, 13% were allocated to health insurance, and this commitment has been very clear with the aim that if people's incomes increase, there will also be an increase in the provision for health insurance and pension funds. If this coherence decreases, there will be no guarantee that, after years, this amount will remain the same and will not be reduced, even though income will increase. Which gives the guarantee that...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U231	Your time is up. One minute for a member of the Riigikogu to ask a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U232	... health insurance increases?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U233	Thank you. You've tied some things up, and I'll try to explain them a little bit more. Of course, part of the budget is related to expenditure and revenue. That's right! You have given a number of examples and one example of the regulation that was previously in force and no longer in force is that the amounts of excise duties on fuel entered into the budget were directed towards road maintenance. Of course, the budget provides for automatic reimbursement of certain expenditure when certain revenue is received. Your specific question concerned which funds would compensate the sickness fund for the deficit caused by the reduction in social tax. However, there is no specific equal sign here. This is a change in the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U234	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U235	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Over the past week, there has been an enormous number of letters from hotel managers and other tourist operators, all of whom are extremely critical of the current tax increase plan. A letter from the CEO of Hotel L'Ermitage, Toomas Teevälja, was received today before 12 o'clock. I quote him briefly: 'We have a 54% drop in the number of Russian residents in the first five months of this year, plus a shorter time for Finns to stay in the hotel. With this decision, you make our existence even more difficult. Hotels aren't rocket science. It is not difficult to calculate what this means for us if the Russians continue to fall and Finnish tourists also reduce their journeys. Please make your decision by the hour! We also have people at work who raise young children. " What do you say if you are responsible for bringing together the mothers of small children now?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U236	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I think I'm gonna go next year, but I'm gonna ask. In March next year, it will also be such an exciting moment where everyone can click and see how much money he gets back when submitting his tax return. This is also the time when many parents try to pay for an interest education. In fact, mothers and fathers of many children know very well that the annual payment of all types of exercises and rounds is intended to be timed in such a way that the money received on the basis of the declaration of the previous year is paid off by the workout or technical circle of the following year. Otherwise, it would be too much. Now you're gonna bring this ceiling down a lot. Have you analyzed how this affects, for example, obtaining an education of interest?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U237	Thank you. Yeah, the country's been analyzing it. If you note, the explanatory memorandum states that this effect is in reality EUR 0.5 million and not just training. This is the total impact of training, donations as well as interest on housing loans. At present, the government has not expected these measures to generate revenue of tens of millions. No, it has an impact of half a million euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U238	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U239	Mr. Minister! If I am not mistaken, you were the chairman of the Finance Committee in the previous Riigikogu. I have heard here the rumor that, before the end of this composition's work, a legislative amendment was adopted in response to a petition, stating a six-month deadline, so that tax laws should be adopted. No one's been able to tell me exactly what the law is, and I haven't been able to find that kind of thing in my computer search. Why don't you explain to me if what I've heard is true?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U240	Thank you. I don't know exactly what you've heard. I can't tell you if what I've heard is true. However, I can guide you on this path to see the verbatim report of the most recent sitting of the Riigikogu. In this session, a bill was adopted as a law, in which the provision relating to the six months was perpetuated.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U241	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U242	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Dear Sven, I know you for many years as a person with a good sense of humor. Today, here at the beginning of the sitting, there was a peculiar suggestion: Mr Adams suggested that, given the level of dialogue we have between the coalition and the opposition, opposition ambassadors could easily cut out their languages. I'm in a different position. I think it's enough to sew your mouth shut. What do you think of that? The way you communicate with us, with the opposition, what does it deserve, the cut-out tongue or the sewn-up mouth?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U243	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U244	Thank you. You could also have given another example of this labour-intensive business and show how much this company will save by 1% due to a reduction in social tax. Examples can be given for a number of sectors. At the moment, the impact analysis has taken into account that if Estonia's excise policy is such as to make the transport company buy fuel from our closest neighbours or, for example, from Poland, it will, of course, result in a fiscal decline in our budget. This has been taken into account in the analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U245	Thank you. Yeah, well, now we're in the middle of blowing up the balloon quietly. It's getting bigger and bigger, and I have to make personal assessments of different subjects. Should I do it now? I'm positive. I think any discussion deserves its place in this hall. All the amendments that are being tabled deserve to be examined. We did not really stop at that much, in fact, that there were 200 amendments to the procedure, even concerning, for example, the volume of engines and the mass of recreational craft. We have some very interesting amendments that we could have discussed here today. But I think that many of these amendments are those that could be dealt with in the future, even on internal missions. However, I would like to say that no debate should be suppressed. The question is, do you like all the answers, do you like ideology? There may be differences of opinion here. But I am clearly tolerating that there must be a plurality of opinions and an opportunity to express opinions. And as far as the coalition is concerned, it is always about two things: one has the right to take any decisions, of course by democratically voting them, and the other is the duty to justify them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U246	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U247	Thank you, Minister. I'll probably find the Journal of this State, but I have another theoretical question. How do you see and see your advisors fulfilling this six-month rule? If, for example, one fiscally important tax change is adopted in the Riigikogu with a shorter term than six months, in the first days of July, for example, is there no way that this law can enter into force from 1 January? Is this an absolute prohibition rule?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U248	Thank you. If you find this particular law, you'll see that there are some possible differences. And if you look at today's changes that we have on the tables, you will see that some of them will not enter into force on 1 January, but on 1 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U249	Mikhail Stalnukhin, is this a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U250	Yeah! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr Adams has now asked a third question. Does that mean that the rest of us can go to the third circle, too?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U251	George Adams had a procedural question before, so he was entitled to ask a third question. But thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Before we go to the calls, I'll take the manager's break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U252	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, A few minutes ago, a question was asked about who the experts were who helped the Ministry of Finance put this bill together. I would like to start by reminding you of a very popular definition of who is an expert. An expert is any man who is not from our neighborhood. If you take this into account, you can understand why the government is playing these games with entrepreneurs, be it chess or kabe, so that the rules are changed in half the game. And in addition, it is done in such a way that it is not possible to continue playing this game. Personally, I can't imagine how businessmen can plan their activities in the middle of a circus like this. I asked the Minister whether he remembers how many times excise duties have been changed, for example, in the last ten years. I got some kind of vague answer. But now imagine that you are an entrepreneur who, under our circumstances, has to do business, give people jobs and pay taxes. And listen up. On 23 November 2004 the rates of excise duty on cigarettes were adopted and entered into force on 1 January 2005 for the years 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008. It's like a clear picture. However, already on 7 December 2005 a law was adopted and entered into force on 1 January 2006 amending the provision of the previous law and introducing new tax rates for 2006 and 2007. On 14 June 2006, a law establishing new tax rates for 2006 and 2008 entered into force on 1 July 2006. And the 2007 tax increase was canceled. Next: On 14 June 2007 a law was adopted and on 1 January 2008 the new tax rates were introduced on 1 January and 1 July 2008. On 18 June 2009, the new tax rates introduced by the Law entered into force on 27 June 2009. On 26 November 2009, further new tax rates were adopted and entered into force on 1 January 2011. As regards the amendments to the euro changeover legislation adopted on 22 April 2010, the existing rates were converted into euro without increasing them, but the following amendment was already adopted on 27 October 2010 which amended the rates that had become applicable since 1 January 2011. The same law also introduced a tax rate applicable from 1 January 2012. On 15 June 2011, a new tax rate was adopted and entered into force on 1 January 2013 under the new law. The Act of 5 December 2012 amended the tax rate which had become effective on 1 January 2013 and introduced a new tax rate which entered into force on 1 January 2014. By law adopted on 1 July 2014, the rates of duty were set, which were to enter into force in instalments on 1 January 2016, 2017 and 2018. The current draft law repeals some of the amendments and replaces the new provisions which are expected to enter into force on 1 January 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. I think it's some kind of madhouse. In ten years, excise duty rates have been changed 11 times, sometimes controversially. It's not like it's possible! In fact, I only read to you the tax rates for specific goods; others may be worse. You should remember Juhan Smuuli's play 'The Widow of the Colonel', where a lady thought that the devil didn't know, would want something of salt or cake. This is exactly the kind of impression we have when we look at how our laws change, enter into force, invalidate our predecessors, etc. It seems that one government after another cannot decide what it wants. Unfortunately, our entrepreneurs must live in this confusion somehow, and it is not surprising that people so easily signed nearly 30,000 protest signatures and that we have dozens of letters from entrepreneurs in our mailbox. It's a shame if this practice isn't changed. It is very difficult for our business to survive if we do not have any stability as a rule of life from a certain time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U253	Thank you. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U254	Ladies and gentlemen, In the system of government administration, political thinking is becoming entrenched that the purpose of taxes is only to enforce the Treasury. The direct objectives of the bill on alcohol excise are not a word about directing people to live healthier. We are beginning to return to the century before yesterday, where the special right of the Baltic Germans gave the opportunity here to exfoli the local inhabitants more than the sovereign's personal needs were. If our people started drinking less now, the Treasury wouldn't come true. There will be a greater interest in the problems of society, a clearer and more critical way of thinking, and the rating of socialists and reformers would fall below the electoral threshold. Therefore, the Soviet Union of Sots and Reform Party does not restrict alcohol advertising, does not restrict the availability of alcohol, but rather favours the thinking of 'gets fuel and alcohol from a gas station together'. 'Drive and drink on! ' is the mindset of a soccer and reformist union of power. The current government is doing nothing but trying to fill the Treasury, and this behavior robs people of their sense of ownership. The government is based on its own needs, not on the challenges facing society. Children's benefits are thawing against the background of this whole price increase race and disappearing jobs. The Taxpayers' Association has spoken, the entrepreneurs have spoken, 28000 signatures have been signed, but the Soviet Union of Sots and Reformers is putting on a dull streak, because Ansip once did, and he is now the Euro Commissioner. And the dull progression has justified itself. In their discussions with reform parties, it has turned out that they think that housing facilities are too much on the ground. Thus, the contraction of jobs in rural areas is a conscious policy. But we thought it was inevitable and globally enforced. Taavi Rõivas, who had just become Prime Minister, expressed his deep regret that he did not arrive at the meeting of Latin American and Caribbean leaders, but he was deeply discouraged by the signature of 28000 Estonian people against tax increases. It shows an attitude. It shows that the captain isn't at our country rudder. The government in office favours emigration, keeps Estonia in poor working conditions and reduces people's purchasing power. Finally, I would like to read a letter from a Läänemaa entrepreneur, which came to all the ambassadors of Läänemaa, Saaremaa and Hiiumaa. 'Dear ambassadors of Saaremaa and Läänemaa! I address you as an entrepreneur. I'm not gonna waste your precious time. I'm gonna put a few numbers in front of you so you can understand what you're doing today. The Association of Accommodation Institutions met in Kuressaare and some things came up there. By increasing your so-called compromise VAT tax, you actually want to tax the profits of accommodation companies, not by 5%, but by a significantly higher percentage. On average, you want to take away 30% of the profits from accommodation facilities, if any. " Finally, there are some examples. For example, the Pühajärve Holiday Home, which is currently barely profitable, will be in deficit after this tax reform, as well as the Saaremaa Spa Hotels, Otepää Bernhard SPA Hotel, Narva-Jõesuu Sanatorium, Arensburg Kuressaare, Congo Hotel in Haapsalu, Saaremaa Thalasso Spa, Fra Mare Thalasso Spa. Everyone goes to minus. But who cares? Who cares about these analyses, these examples, the calculations? So finally, we will be able to experience positive changes when the current government union falls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U255	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U256	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! Increased excise duties on fuel will undoubtedly have a negative impact on the transport sector. The IRL Group of the Riigikogu belongs to the President of the Estonian Association of International Car Carriers. I assume you and Einar Vallbaum have been talking about these tax increases. What does the Estonian Association of International Car Carriers think about raising excise duties on fuel and its impact on the transport sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U257	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In our public information space, questions have been asked for quite a long time about the aims of our country to try to understand where the Estonian state is going. The lack of vision, the lack of a great purpose, has been condemned to understand what we are missing. Estonia's long-term goal should be to target most of Estonia's people, to which the whole society is prepared to contribute. This objective should be more ambitious than that of a neighbour and should certainly not be limited to solving a few individual problems. Unfortunately, there are no thoughts on this in the coalition agreement or the positions of the Minister of Finance that we have had today. It's like you don't often know what you're talking about. At a government press conference held last week, Prime Minister Äripäev reacted with frustration. In the Prime Minister's view, the lack of vision in the article was quite inadequate. In response to Äripäev, he began to talk about Estonia's location in the rankings without understanding that it was something else. The Prime Minister was worried about what Estonia looks like in the rankings compared to our neighbours without realizing that it was talking about a garden hole while others were talking about a garden. Of course, different indices also reflect our success or failure, but when it comes to vision, there is something that should come to life in the future, not what is already behind us. While the real picture is the starting point for designing and pursuing goals, it does not replace a lack of vision. After all, the question was not what are the actual figures in the rankings, but what should be the situation in the future. As far as the government's vision is concerned, it certainly does not show up to the individual positive things that the government is planning to do. According to the Prime Minister himself, we should actually look at the context more broadly, but not at what has been done more beautifully, but at setting targets. The vision of the country's future is not an electoral lecture that seeks to motivate its electra, nor is it a random percentage point reduction in labour taxes, not even an increase in the competitiveness of the Estonian state as a whole. Because all of this is done for something, something to get to, something that we haven't been able to make sense of, or get popular support for, by now. When it is said that things have to be done differently in principle, it cannot be called self-pity, as the Prime Minister understands. This is an attempt to initiate a discussion in Estonian society to organise our future. None of us have a monopoly on the truth, not even the Prime Minister. Unfortunately, our current Heads of State, as we have learned, also have no understanding, which means creating a vision for the Estonian state. Mr. Chairman, may I have an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U258	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U259	It is not difficult to calculate what it means to us if the Russians continue to fall and Finnish tourists also reduce their travels. Please make your decision by the hour! We also have people at work who raise young children. We would be happy to raise their salaries if we did not have to give away from the other side. Unfortunately, we do not have the opportunity to use the amounts paid for energy, heating and water as a source of cover. ' I don't think all these letters and other addresses in any way affect people who sit in this room. I do not believe that the Social Democratic Party will also fight for its constituents and do what the new Chief Evgeny Ossinovski promised before their last congress, who said it was time to review the coalition agreement. It's always the case when a man fights for something, he promises a lot. When the victory is here, he's already a hostage to his company. Right now, we're all hostages. These nearly 28,000 signatures, which have been handed over to the Riigikogu and by which people protest against the increase in excise duty, are all, unfortunately, just blank paper. I very much hope that there will still be some intelligent vigilante on the side of the communal government, who will press the button according to his conscience. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U260	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, What is being done today in the Chamber of the Riigikogu has become a new name: it is now called a vicious legislative act. This vicious legislation began in times of depression, when the Estonian economy even had a very severe fall on the scale of Europe: 14% in one year. In the current situation, it is as if the crisis has not been openly recognised. There is a long-term stagnation, but it does not excuse the use of measures during the crisis. Today we have a vote in front of us where trust in the government is linked to tax increases. The presentation of the draft cluster law has taken a step forward by launching an urgent procedure on which the Riigikogu's home and operating procedures clearly state that it is justified when we have a minority government, and also when there is a major crisis in Estonia. For the simple purpose of simply taking decisions more quickly, the use of such a procedure is not legitimate, as it severely curtails opposition rights. Already, the handling of the cluster bill has taken a lot of opportunities from the opposition to do their job. However, the current move eliminates any possibility that any amendment in this Chamber of the Riigikogu could find support so that some amendment could be incorporated into the law. I also have to say that the Reform Party has taken its smaller partners hostage with a cluster bill. People's ambassadors are facing a forced choice: if they do not want their party fellow ministers to be collectively distrusted, then they must automatically vote in favour of tax increases. On the other hand, although we do not trust the current government and do not see it as a clear vision, we have been given the opportunity to support the growth of child support, which we certainly would have liked to have done in the next vote. The justification for rushing to adopt negative tax changes six months before enforcement is not relevant. In fact, the Government of the Republic should have submitted the draft to the Riigikogu in due time, given that the Riigikogu has internal working arrangements and there are certain time limits that will be respected in the procedure. Instead, the Government of the Republic took all the time necessary to negotiate, and the Riigikogu was told that it is your business here with the majority to simply formalise the decision, not to discuss the subject in substance. At the meeting of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu last week, the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Finance, who presented the Government's views, acknowledged that the Ministry did not have time to discuss the opposition's amendments in substance, as the deadline for amendments was last week's Monday evening and already on Tuesday more than 200 proposals were discussed. It is no longer appropriate to talk about this today, because the possibility of discussing amendments was taken away from us through an urgent procedure anyway. The Riigikogu is therefore rushed, which is not in accordance with our legal order. Now I'm coming from the uniform to the content, too. The content is as negative as the form. The draft will raise the VAT rate on accommodation services and raise it higher than in our neighbouring countries, Finland, Latvia and Lithuania. Fuel excise duties will be raised, which will give us at least one Nordic country, Finland, in a few years' time. The draft provides for the abolition of the income tax credit for adult education costs and for the reduction of the total amount of tax deductions and social security contributions granted to natural persons from taxable income. The reduction in the social tax rate is intended to be seen as a positive step, but most operators have said that the resulting benefits are marginal and will be offset by additional burdens resulting from excise increases. And the reduction in the social tax rate will certainly also have a negative effect, as it reduces the confidence of the Estonian health care system. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U261	The reduction in the rate leads to a reduction in the income of social security contributions from public health insurance funds. It is initially allowed to be compensated for by other budget revenues, but trust credits for such decisions are already so small. I would like to remind you that, in the past, some sectors have been made promises that will no longer be kept in a few years' time in the case of tax increases. This is how confidence in the financing of health care tends to disappear. So far, there has always been a certain amount of social tax received in health care, and people have known that a solidarity-based health insurance system is maintained through these labour taxes. During the past eight years, different taxes and excise duties have been raised 20 times under the leadership of the Reform Party. This same increase in excise duties is obviously another step in this long sequence, but behind it it seems a cynical plan to increase inflation. After all, we all know that fuel is an important input not only in the transport sector, but that its appreciation will have an impact on the prices of all goods and services. If this input becomes more expensive, all prices will rise and you can add more VAT to the higher price. And so you can report that taxes are well received. Unfortunately, the economy is not growing. All of this will nullify the positive impact of the growth in child benefits and also the income tax money that remains in the hands of low-paid people. So this is a cynical plan to make Estonia even more expensive than Estonia. It seems that the only plan to catch up with the Nordic countries is to catch up with Finland at fuel prices. I would like to point out once again that this bill deceives its voters, as no increase in excise duties was ever mentioned during the elections. On the contrary, the Prime Minister clearly denied such a plan in the direct studio of ETV. It was claimed that there was money to carry out his election promises, but now it turns out that the money came from this cynical Excel table and the planned tax increases. It is not possible to compare the increase in excise duties with the taxation of ordinary vices, because if alcohol and tobacco really do harm health, excise duties on fuel must be paid by everyone, fuel consumption cannot be automatically reduced by the normal consumer. And the cynical thing is that more than 28,000 signatures, collected by the Centre Party and the Free Party, are completely dullly ignored on a statement that people are asking to cancel this tax increase. The Centre Party will certainly not trust the government in the forthcoming vote. We believe that this tax increase will worsen both people's livelihood and the overall situation of the economy. It will certainly also reduce the confidence of Estonian entrepreneurs and hope that the government for its part will offer a positive plan for how the Estonian economy will grow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U262	Thank you. Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U263	Honourable Vice President! Colleagues! When it was the first reading of this cluster bill, I asked Mr. Secretary of State about school food that how thin it was going to get. The minister replied that this question went beyond the scope of the subject and was embossed. Okay, so let's try it off the top right now, let's go deep. School food must consist of certain components. A child needs to be able to eat properly, so he doesn't get stupid thoughts in his head, then he learns. His job is learning. He can eat in the morning, he can eat at lunch, and maybe he can eat at home at night. It is known that one third of children cannot eat at home in the morning or in the evening, the only time they can eat at school. School food must certainly contain elements such as oxygen, carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, silicon, phosphorus and iron, as well as any other trace elements. It all has to be because it ensures the production of a normal amino acid. When a normal amino acid is produced, a normal genetic code is produced. If we get a normal genetic code, we're going to be slightly different from each other, a little bit, just one amino acid. Now, let's go deep. In order to make a normal diet with normal amino acid in it, you need to get a seed in the field that grows there. You're gonna need fuel, too. You can bring it by plane, helicopter, tank with anything, but fuel is needed. Its excise will soon be higher. So, the seed in the field is more expensive than it was yesterday. Go on, pick up the crops from the field. Once again, we need a tractor, the fuel of which comes from a tank, a plane or a helicopter, and again it is more expensive. We got caught up in a field and somewhere in a box. The boxes need to be picked up from the edge of the field to the warehouse, and some kind of machine has to do it. There's excise duty, VAT, all the other stuff. The prey must be kept somewhere. Now it's in the warehouse where Kitchen-Kata puts a terrible rush into picking up the stuff with her car or a leased car. We need fuel again. Plus labour costs, everything costs. Consequently, the same amount of school food will receive much less school food in the future. Yeah, where death doesn't take it, nobody takes it. Isn't that right? The state did not increase the dose of school food. This was before EUR 1.37 and remained at EUR 1.37, half of which has already been spent on side-costs, with a total of EUR 40 to 60 cents left on food. Now there are 20 to 30 euro cents, but the child must be able to eat, the child must receive energy. If he doesn't get power, he won't learn. It has to have sugar, so carbon, hydrogen, oxygen. Where does he get it? Inside the food. If he doesn't get sugar, no starch, no energy. What's he doing? Saves the energy drink, slam-knuck-knuckle-knuckle-knuckle in the morning in order to stay still somehow. If you can't eat, the child wants to make a criminal or look for entertainment. Where's he looking for it? The basements. Because learning isn't popular anymore, and I'm hungry, but I'd like to do something. Isn't that right? More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U264	It is not replaced by development plans or strategies that have been written in office silence, because creating a vision is a process that must have a broader bearing surface than the so-called good things in back rooms. This cannot be a marginal tax reduction or a further increase in the grant, although they are also necessary. This is something that must find the support of the majority of the people of Estonia, because we must work together to do this and possibly make certain sacrifices. But if it's worth it, they'll be ready for it together. The last time Estonia had such a goal was when we wanted to become a member of the European Union and NATO. Right now, we're floating, using a maritime comparison, at sea with no clear goal like a ship that's off the road. We have a whole range of problems that need to be resolved, we have some good things that are going to be done, but the Estonian state does not have a definite goal that we should reach. The tax changes we are discussing today are like patching up a broken six on the flag and the patch on the patch, the country's long-term development cannot be seen in this fundamental senseless activity. This is also one of the reasons why today they are trying to distrust the government. The government has to start thinking about all this if it wants to rule the country for four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U265	Thank you. Marika Tuus-Laul, please! 5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U266	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, One might first ask what we have achieved as a result of the years of governance of the Reform Party. The last human development report gives a rather short answer: we are trapped. We are trapped in the middle wage, trapped in the ceiling, trapped in poverty, trapped in the loss of labour, trapped in higher education, trapped in routines, etc., the report says. Despite all efforts, for years our human being has not been able to improve his social position. If we look at society from a sustainable point of view, the rapid decline of the population will force us to talk even about Estonia's demise in the run-up to 10 to 20 years. Or if you use a milder pair of words, we are characterized by "long-term shrinkage," the report says. We regained independence and created our country, but now, for a large part of the years, the Reform Party, the IRL and the Socialist Trion Union have led our country to a sustainable decline in power and money greed and in the confrontation of ethnic groups. What is our government doing now? No, he certainly does not wonder how to get production and the economy going at all, how to develop technology, how to drive economic growth with the tax system. On the contrary, we are thinking about who could be taken away from to patch up budget holes, who could be more taxed, and how could the most vulnerable group be eroded more? Over a period of eight years, indirect taxes and excise duties affecting the poorer population have been increased 20 times. Kadri Samson drew attention to this. A year ago, when the Interim Government increased the excise duty on light fuel oil by 354%, among others, it did not fit many minds. And now you're running out of 38%. And not only does fuel oil cost, but excise duty also rises on coal, lignite, coke and oil shale, and more than three times. Minister of Finance Sester explains that this is how excise duties and VAT are better received. Well, a nice slogan was still that 'Home expenses down! 'IRL. The then Minister for Economic Affairs raised the price of electricity to the ceiling, increased network charges, renewable energy charges, excise duties, and everything was subject to double VAT. The dividends were withdrawn from Eesti Energia. It is a hidden tax, or electricity tax, because the people have to pay for it all. I guess that's why the IRL election deserted. The current tax increases were also not discussed in the elections. People were deceived. The rating of government departments has never been as low as the rating of the Reform Party, which has fallen from 28% to 16% as a bomb. IRL is at the lowest point in history. For Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, the people scored 2+, or 2.68. Well, how can a prime minister with that rating stay on the post? That's probably why he's not coming to this briefing. A year ago, the then president of the IRL, Urmas Reinsalu, criticised the government of squirrels and squirrels for their tax increases. 1000 amendments were proposed. The last Thursday of May last year was even called a black Thursday, for these tax increases were then accepted. And now Minister Sester comes before us and justifies that the price of motor fuel must be increased in order to tax energy products more equally. What hypocrisy! From the statements made by Taavi Clothes, we can conclude that driving a car in the country, which is unfortunately the only way to travel there, is harmful consumption. There is talk of a fifth increase in the cost of motor fuel, but not of a ten-euro price coming to the end of the tank. It's not a small slope. Diesel will be 18% more expensive than Latvia in the coming years, 19% more expensive than Lithuania and 13% more expensive than Poland. It is also worth recalling that excise duties on fuel that were raised in Lithuania six years ago were brought back because fuel had to be refueled to other countries. It's probably just the same thing that's coming for us. Is all this helping to move our economy forward? Does business benefit from an increase in VAT for accommodation establishments? Will the reduction in social tax help businesses forward, or will it also lead to an irreversible decline in our already distressed health care? Each such tax increase must be preceded by an analysis of the effects of the price increase on people's behaviour and the economy. This time it has actually not been done. At Saturday's Postimees, Attorney-at-Law Aare Tark and lawyer Sten Andreas Ehrlich analyse the current situation and they say that there is no guarantee of efficiency without assessing the impact of taxes. The assessment of such large impacts should be much more comprehensive. Can low-paid people be helped with a one-off, almost non-existent tax refund per year, or would they be helped by a much higher salary? Probably a first-class question. I recall that in 2007 the Triple Union started to raise high consumption taxes. A few years later, huge tax cuts actually cut our economy to death. It's still going on. It was as if we were a textbook example of how it should not work, the economists described it that time. But that is how our Reform Party, which has been in power for 17 years, will continue to act, and this has led to sustainable decline. Over 28,000 people have expressed their opinion. No more excise duty! No to the Reform Party government! With your tax games and your arrogance, you deserve your downward spiral and your mistrust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U267	Thank you. Heimar Lenk, please! Eight minutes, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U268	Maybe it'll take longer than five minutes. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, You can also view live broadcasts from this hall on the Internet. Now let us remind our viewers what we are discussing here, what we are talking about. We are talking about a draft law amending the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and other laws. So what do we want to change? Let's think about it for a second, let's think about it again! We are amending the Social Tax Act by lowering the social tax rate by 1%. The aim is to reduce the tax burden on labour, on which businesses have immediately said no, there are a number of articles on this point: there is no point in doing so. Today, Mr Sester also said that yes, this reduction is too small because it has no impact on society. What else do we want to do? We want to amend the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and gradually increase excise duties on alcohol, tobacco and fuel. We are also amending the VAT law to increase the VAT rate on accommodation services from 9% to 14%. It was a little reminder. But the most important thing now: why is it being done? What does the government tell us? Ladies and gentlemen, the aim is to increase the revenue of the state. Tell me, wise men of history, with which those countries that only started to increase their income by raising taxes ended. We have been discussing the amendment of these laws for several weeks now, but have we touched on in any word that we need to develop production so that we need new companies so that we need industrial production? I don't remember talking about it in this hall in the last few years. Let us remind you of what Estonia is currently producing. The first thing I remember is log houses that are exported, and maybe some children's furniture. When we ask what is the current mark of the Republic of Estonia to stand out in the world, I remember only the piano of Estonia. These things are really beautiful things. But that's all there is to it. If someone is driving out of Tallinn towards Tartu, look left for a moment. Recently, major repairs were made to the former Marat building on the Tartu highway. See what signs and ads are on there now: currency exchange, pub, buffet, youth club, sauna cafe, etc. It was a famous factory that exported Estonian production to 60 countries. Or take the Mustamäe road, you'll see the former excavators' husk. What's in the building? A gold store and empty men's jacket stores where there's nothing to sell, and there's a grocery store. But once there, there were land improvement excavators sold to 32 countries. And so on. And now we're talking here that the state has no revenue and we have to raise taxes. It is embarrassing to read this bill and it is embarrassing even to give speeches here because I see that our young Prime Minister and his government are embarrassed. They don't know how to proceed, and in great distress, tax rises begin to be reported with great frustration. At the same time, people think quite the opposite. It has already been recalled that over 28,000 signatures have been collected. These signatures are simple people. Had the collection started earlier, 100,000 signatures would have come. I do not remember that we would have received so many signatures of protest after we protested against the sale of power stations and Estonian Railways, when the People's Union and the Central Party collected 168001 signatures. That is the situation now, ladies and gentlemen and other people who are following the course of our sitting. We have to think about what we're gonna do. Estonia is in a dead end. It's already been said that the government doesn't know where to go. I really don't know. I haven't heard any interesting thoughts lately that we are taking this direction in Estonia and going that way. The favourite word for our entrepreneurs, especially farmers, is the subsidies just maybe they can get local support from the state, maybe they can get the European Union support. We went to the European Union with a huge lump sum to receive subsidies, but the subsidies have been received, and what have we done with these subsidies? Where have we come from? There is no point in talking about this more: everyone knows where our salaries have come from: we have poor wages and almost no pensions. What else have we got? One of the most expensive goods in Europe. We have built such a country in these 24 or 25 years. We wanted to make a demonstration country. I'm not going to remind you that we wanted to be among the richest and best and most beautiful. Now we are looking for a new slogan for Estonia. The old one's no good anymore, 'cause almost no one drives here. We keep hearing on the radio that hotels are losing their income because there are no tourists coming. A fifth of those tourists who came to the spa in Narva were left. Local mothers and fathers are invited to come and swim your children into our pool, so maybe we can get our budget. But what will our young Prime Minister's government do? He puts VAT on these half-empty hotels and spas, raises the rate from 9% to 14% and thinks that the Estonian economy is developing further and we have a bright future ahead of us. I went to the Riigikogu cafe today. A coalition ambassador told me you were going to talk nonsense again. But I said we're talking about what you're doing, and we're not taking anything out of our head. There are new ambassadors sitting here now. I have talked to colleagues from journalists, they all came with great hopes of making Estonia better, but now we can see that only some of them have made the aim of improving Estonia's life, most of them are playing this hidden game with the government. There's one thing you're in favour of, another one, so you don't understand what these new powers are trying to do. I propose to join with the aim of improving Estonia's life. It is sad to say this, ladies and gentlemen, but we have built a small and expensive Estonia, where it is not as good to live as we hoped. Is this the country we wanted? I think most of the people in the hall say they didn't want to talk to their wives in the kitchen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U269	Thank you. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U270	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U271	Thank you. How can the Minister of Finance say that due to the rise in excise duties and other tax policies, school food does not get any worse? School food's getting really low. As a chemist, I came up with a great idea, and I discussed it with Mr. Padari. In fact, I am writing a major project, the subject of which is that a bacterium should be developed for the students to help the human stomach synthesize and digest cellulose. The child can eat silo and hay when expressed in the language of the people. Think how good it is! Free food comes, a load of hay comes to school, everybody fills up, and it's okay. The state budget is full. Mr Padar agreed very much, because there is such a good story in research projects that one in 100 research projects can succeed. If that doesn't work, we'll write down the million euros. Just like the Paide Industrial School. Well, it didn't work out! But now, think without any jokes. The children are our future, and if the child is not guaranteed proper food, he or she will not develop properly, there will be anomalies. And if the kids don't have replacement activities and if the kids really don't have a decent front, I know what that means, then we don't have a future. Thank you, and I'm sorry for the inappropriate joke that we have to start eating hay and cellulose! I'd give Tara so we don't have to come up with that kind of bacteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U272	Thank you. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U273	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking all the 27,665 people who, in the last two and a half weeks, signed the project of collecting signatures initiated by the Central Party to put one thing to the hearts of the members of the government and the coalition ambassadors of the parliament: the bill 41 SE, which we are currently discussing, does not improve the lives of people in our country. On the contrary, it makes every Estonian person's life worse. The aim of the action was to call for them not to vote in favour of this bill. These signatures have been handed over by the Centre Party to the Riigikogu Board and, according to the letter of formal notice and the Act on replying to the request for clarification and submitting a collective appeal, these signatures are passed on to the Riigikogu Finance Committee. As the regular meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs will no longer take place at this session, it is most likely that this 27665 signature will be discussed this autumn. So even though today the coalition roadroll rumbles and pushes through these draft laws, the issue is not over. In the autumn, these same signatures will be discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The demand of these people is that the issue be discussed again in the large Chamber of Parliament, not as happened with the 1000 signatures of the Free Party, which were simply dealt with as a matter of urgency at the end of the agenda of a committee sitting and said that we should throw them in the trash can, nothing else can be done with them. We hope that the signatures collected by the Centre Party will go differently, will do better, and that this topic will be taken into consideration again in the big Chamber in autumn. When it comes to dealing with this draft in Parliament and, in fact, how it started in the government, it could be called one big mess. In the round of coordination and in the debate between them, the government dealt with all these drafts separately: there was a separate draft amendment to the VAT Act, there was a separate draft on the subject of social tax, there was a separate draft on excise duties, but before being brought before Parliament, they were bound into a single cluster so that Parliament could work with them less and ask less about them. As we know, for each draft, the MP can ask two questions. Three drafts were now bound into one package so that they could not ask six questions, but two. In fact, I think it is right to throw a stone in Parliament's Speaker's Cabbage Garden. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which the Riigikogu has adopted as a regulation of its own working arrangements, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu and the Chairman of the Riigikogu should not have adopted such a draft from the Government. It should have been sent back to the government and said that Parliament would no longer be willing to deal with the cluster proposals. To amend this bill, 201 proposals were made, and it was a great fear that some of them could also find the support of coalition ambassadors at night sessions, that the government, in some way, withdrew these drafts from Parliament, bound them by a vote of confidence, and then brought the package back to Parliament in a way that did not allow amendments to be voted on in this Chamber. This, in my opinion, is a clear sign that the government coalition is not unanimous, and in a sense it gave this step in retreating battles. If you read about the commentary on the Riigikogu House and Rules of Procedure Act on votes relating to the matter of trust, we see that this option is intended primarily for use by a minority government which may otherwise have difficulties in implementing its policies or in crisis situations where the government may need to overcome the differences that govern the majority of Members of Parliament. The procedure in the Riigikogu for a draft question of trust is much faster than the ordinary procedure. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U274	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U275	'Connecting the adoption of the draft act with a question of trust makes it possible to avoid certain procedural steps, including, for example, voting on a number of amendments. However, as has also been pointed out in the legal literature, the use of this procedure, in order to ensure the swift adoption of the draft by Parliament, may not be legitimate insofar as it significantly reduces the rights of the opposition in particular', is stated in an executive publication. I also asked the Minister of Finance which of these three conditions were then met. Is there a minority government in Estonia? No, it's not. Is there a crisis situation in Estonia? No, it's not. At least the government won't admit it. Or are there differences within the government coalition that it is necessary to vote on this draft as a matter of urgency on a matter of trust in this House? According to the Minister of Finance, neither is that. So none of the three prerequisites provided for by the Riigikogu's Law of Home and Rules of Procedure in order to link the adoption of the draft with the question of trust are there. As a result, the Centre Party has decided that if the amendment of these laws is approved in this Chamber this evening, we will appeal to the President of the Republic to carefully consider them and not declare the laws that are adopted today in connection with the matter of trust. They could be sent back to this Chamber for further discussion. Finally, I appeal to the Social Democratic Party because, in my opinion, it is your vote that depends on whether or not the tax changes proposed by the government are accepted in this Chamber. Your vote will depend on whether the increase in excise duties on fuel will be approved. Your vote depends on whether the value added tax (VAT) will rise from 9% to 14%, and your push of the button will depend on whether the country will be further thinned, whether another 80 million will be removed from the state budget, even less money will be left to the police, teachers, rescue officers, local authorities, and so on. In my opinion, this is your opportunity, Social Democrats, to show what kind of policy you are actually pursuing: either what you said before the elections or what the Reform Party has written to you. To conclude, I call on the ambassadors of my district, Viljandi and Järvamaa to refrain from supporting bill 41. Before the elections, I met all of you who have gotten into parliament from this district, and none of you in any debate promised your voters that you would raise VAT on hotels and increase excise duties on fuel. Helir-Valdor Seeder, Kristjan Kõljalg, Helmen Kütt, Jaanus Marrand and Johannes Kert, I call on you to vote against this bill because you have not received the mandate of the voters of Viljandi and Järvamaa for these tax increases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U276	Thank you. Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U277	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, It's not far from the time we all met in this hall for the first time. We remember very well how much time it took for this government to assemble and how long it took to prepare the coalition agreement. It all happened behind closed doors, and only recently did we find out what was happening behind those closed doors. Everything was very simple. It was agreed on expenditure, i.e. the minus part of the budget, and then it became clear that there is also a plus part, i.e. revenue, and they must be taken into account in some way. And the cluster government, which is made up of three parties, quickly made a cluster decision. And Riigikogu's cluster management, where there are also three parties, adopted rules that change the good practice of not handling cluster drafts that always existed in this Chamber of Riigikogu. No wonder that's how it works. Democracy is nothing but the rule of the Bolsheviks. When the people elected representatives of six political parties to the Riigikogu, that was the end of the people's will. I don't think the people really wanted the three parties that came to power to exercise power. But that's another question. Now these three parties are in power, and they have brought a bill before us, scaring us that if it is not dealt with quickly, the government will resign. In a normal democratic society, these things do not work that way, but we still have the Bolsheviks deciding and the minority simply submitting. And the people who hoped that if six political parties entered the Riigikogu, the government would be those with a stronger mandate for the people. But now the government's mandate is what it is, and there's nothing we can do about it. Both members of the Riigikogu and the Commission received a number of letters from ordinary citizens and entrepreneurs who, in one way or another, protested against this cluster bill. I got one of the last letters in my mailbox today at 11:49. It was sent by Toomas Teevälja, Managing Director of Hotel L'Ermitage in Tallinn. He writes: 'Dear Members of the Riigikogu! I won't write to you for long. Despite the fact that we are not the smallest hotel, but also the largest of 122 rooms, we also have a good location, your decisions will depend on whether or not we are forced to lay off people. Not going to give out numbers, but for our hotel, this change also means a minimum of one extra month, April, where we need to think about how and in what order to pay wages. Apparently, many public employees are not aware of the concern that there is no money available during the low season. This change will take many jobs and reduce investment. Please do not support this amendment. During the low season, which lasts until April, the hotel industry supported the Russian and Finnish markets. In the first five months of this year, the number of Russian nationals accommodated has fallen to 54%, in addition to the reduction in Finns' stay in the hotel. With this decision, you make our existence even more difficult. Hotels are not rocket science... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U278	Thank you. Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U279	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I stand here with a heavy heart because, frankly, it is embarrassing to process such an anti-human draft in the Riigikogu Hall at all. If the state is joking with taxes and public money, why should people take such a country seriously? The last few months have shown how a coalition that has been impaled tries to carry out something that was promised before the elections over stones and stumps. There's a bunch of mush and cabbages that, unfortunately, no one likes. The opposition doesn't want to be a part of this. The increase in excise duty that we are dealing with here today is nothing more than taking away their last cent from many people. With one hand we'll take the other. Such a policy is unsustainable. It is a potjomkinlus, which is not based on any analysis or even on Excel's table, but focuses on creating a large picture, which ultimately turns out to be mirage. Today we see Estonia helping Greece in debt. Greece's aid increases our sovereign debt, but the government, which is still led by the Reform Party, does not look any different. On the contrary, the government is helping the Greeks and abandoning the millions of euros that the Greeks would have to pay from their bonds to the state budget. Instead, money will be taken from our own people, whose wallets will be taken again. The government is talking about taxing vices. What are the vices? Day-to-day bus or car rides over miles, because there is no job at home. Cooking a house or an apartment or a summer holiday in a tourist accommodation. At the beginning of the year, the excise duty on light fuel oil increased by 350%. But that's not enough. With today's bill, we're gonna put excise duty on fuel oil. People will not be able to change their heating systems as quickly as the price of some fuel is rising again. But the government doesn't care about that again. Sometimes conflicting goals need to be met, and that is to say, it is for people's own money. The only vice I see in this context is the increase in taxes, which takes place without thought and without prior analysis, as we already know. The current analysis goes to the level of raising taxes by 20 or 15%, because what difference does it make? You're going bankrupt, aren't you? Okay, let's go to 14%. You can't do that! Value added tax (VAT) on accommodation establishments, which we are talking about, will be among the highest in Europe as a result of the action of the government union. The competitiveness of hotels is declining, a number of people are unemployed and fewer tourists reach Estonia. Such information, however, seems to interfere with the government's alliance. Every tax increase, as well as the fall, must be meaningful and argued. The changes we are talking about today serve only one purpose: to bring money to the Treasury, leaving aside a very important nuance that this money comes again from our own people's pockets. Saving up budget money from any place you can from is certainly not a policy to support. Especially if we can support other countries at the same time. I am sure that this bill deserves a breakthrough, even if it means a failure of the entire government's tax policy. I'd be embarrassed to take responsibility for the last one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U280	Yeah, three minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U281	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U282	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good ambassadors and everyone who follows us on the balcony, over the Internet and television! The title of this bill is the 'Law amending Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other laws'. Under the words 'and other laws', the amendment of the Penal Code has been finely embedded. After the adoption of this law, all Estonian citizens, visitors in Estonia, local governments and even the Police and Border Guard Board will be punished at higher costs and higher prices. I do not know that in the history of Estonia, the government would have turned so harshly against its own people in the past. And I really don't understand the people who support and praise the government in this way for punishing the people. What, then, are these penalties? And what are all those in this small country being punished for, and who will benefit from it? Let's start with a reduction in social tax. Looks like the positive news, some kind of tax goes down! However, the companies that should benefit from this tax change have said that the price at which it is achieved is too high. In fact, the costs of companies and institutions are increasing. Today we have June 15th. On Saturday, news came out of the media that one parent had to pay for the inevitable dental care of a 6-year-old child, since the money for the second quarter of the health insurance fund had run out. Two weeks before the end of the quarter, children will no longer receive urgent medical care! This is not a single case, there are very many cases across Estonia. It is now claimed that if the social tax is reduced by one percentage point and thus the resources available to the health insurance fund are reduced, it will not impair the quality and availability of health care. I don't believe it! The Health Insurance Fund can't handle its own business right now. How is this possible after budget cuts? With this amendment, we are punishing the most vulnerable, those who are sick and need medical care. Yes, it is said that this percentage will be found elsewhere, but public authorities, including the Health Insurance Fund, have received orders to reduce costs by more than 1%. Second, the fuel excise duty is being increased. The new rhetoric declares that this is done in order to reduce harmful consumption, and the larger excise duties make us a new Nordic country. Try to understand that the most important feature of the Nordic countries is not high prices, but high incomes and top-level social assistance. The price of diesel is already the same as in the Nordic countries and also in Western Europe, and, for example, we are ahead of Latvia in this regard. If these tax changes materialise, then the price of diesel will definitely be the highest in Europe. The price of gas will also reach out to Scandinavia. Do not be blinded by the fact that this price increase is only 5 cents. No, it's not! The price increase next year is 5 cents plus VAT, i.e. 6 cents, and every following year the price will increase already more. In total, the price of both diesel and petrol will increase by about 20 cents per litre over the next three years. If the oil price reaches its level a few years ago, both fuels will cost more than 2 euro liters at Estonian filling stations. Finland, Sweden and Norway do not penalise their residents and businesses at such prices. The price of petrol affects the rural population and businesses most severely. We all know that lower wages are in the country. And in Finland, for example, the minimum wage is 1600 euros; we only have 390 euros. And the Finnish state compensates for the fuel consumption of people living in sparsely populated areas. We don't have that chance. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U283	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U284	The Finnish state believes that fuel is too expensive and will pay back the fuel money. And that's what a country with more than four times as high as ours is doing. Estonia, on the other hand, penalises people living in rural areas at higher prices. It's better not to have diesel either. The price of diesel affects all services as transport costs increase. The increase in fuel prices is particularly severe for farmers and companies in the transport sector. If the rest of Europe pays subsidies to farmers so that life on land is preserved and the cost price of products is competitive, farmers will be punished in Estonia at higher fuel prices. The Police and Border Guard Board has carried out major reforms and redundancies in recent years. The Director-General of the Office claims that all internal resources have been exhausted and that there is no further cuts to be made. Fuel prices will now be increased by 20%, while fuel costs will be very important among the costs of this agency. The money has not been added to compensate for the price increase. The last piece of information is that it is ordered to draw up a budget of 5 to 10%. This savings are likely to be achieved by concentrating and reducing patrols. Control at the border weakens, control on the streets weakens, and the fight against organised crime. This is how we punish all people in Estonia, because life here is no longer safe. The task of local authorities is to organise both public transport and the transport of school children. The most expensive fuel is an additional burden on the local government budget, but the funding of local governments is already at a critical level. The government does not want to realise that such price increases must be compensated for by local authorities. For example, to Tallinn alone, this tax increase costs more than EUR 5 million, and this amount has already taken into account the symbolic benefits of lowering social tax. The increase in fuel prices penalises all local authorities because they have to find money to cover price increases at the expense of other services. Maret Maripuu has pointed out in his master's thesis 'The impact of legal measures on health damage caused by alcohol' that financial regulations do not have a significant impact on the consumption of alcoholic beverages. It is therefore necessary to agree with the explanatory memorandum that these tax changes are intended to be carried out by the Treasury and not to improve public health. However, it certainly affects the behaviour of our beloved Finnish tourists and will certainly reduce both the number of tourists and the amount of alcohol they buy in. In this way, the government punishes both the tourism sector and itself, as tax revenue actually decreases. This list could continue for a long time, but unfortunately, the minutes I have been given have run out. I hope the representatives of the coalition speak...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U285	Dear waitress, your time is up. Thank you. Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U286	Thank you. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U287	Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu Dmitri Dmitriyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U288	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U289	Ladies and gentlemen, Today, Sven Sester, our Minister of Finance, said in answering questions that in the eyes of the opposition, the positive steps taken by the coalition or the government are often unaccounted for, we simply do not see them and do not want to talk about them at all. I don't think that's the case. I have always praised the government or the coalition myself when they have taken the right steps that have helped Estonia to develop and have also had a good impact on agriculture and rural areas as a whole. But on what is happening now, I am also thinking about the draft that we will soon be voting on, I cannot say anything good, especially from the position of farmers. We all know that farmers are in a very difficult situation right now. First, of course, this is due to the geopolitical situation. I will be honest with you that in this regard Estonia may not be able to do much, to make a difference. But the steps that should be taken in this situation are very important. If we see that our farmers are in trouble, we could at least try to save them, make some taxes smaller, or introduce some benefits. But instead, today we are probably raising the excise duty on specially labelled fuel, which means that farmers in particular will have to pay more. Once again, I do not think it is a question of any opposition at this time that we are an oppositionist, but yes, this decision has been made by the coalition. However, I hope that we will ultimately have a common goal. We all want, in fact, that if not us, then at least our children or grandchildren could live in the kind of Estonia we have dreamed of. And to do that, we need to look at all the problems more broadly. Perhaps the question arises as to why agriculture is so important? Is this some kind of sacred cow or something? I have heard a great deal about the fact that farmers are just like all other operators and they do not have to receive any benefits at all. Sven Sester also said last week that the overall plan is that the use of specially labelled diesel must be completed. But let's see where we are now and what the farmers are doing. In fact, the European Union is like a big country, and maybe we should think that our farmers deserve the same treatment as farmers in other countries. For example, Latvian farmers do not have to pay any excise duty when buying specially labelled diesel fuel, and in many European countries this excise duty is lower than in Estonia. Agriculture, especially livestock farming, is an area where there are quite a few jobs. Of course, most companies that close their doors because of the low price of milk may not quite disappear, they just start dealing with other things, such as cereal. But if you look by the surface area, for example, you only need three people to grow 1 000 hectares of grain, but if you have a cow farm and you use it to produce 1,000 hectares of fodder, it would already take 10 people, which means that now a great deal of jobs will be lost and unfortunately again on land. What can we do here? There are various proposals, including the reduction of excise duty on special-purpose diesel and the introduction of different tax incentives for farmers, but instead we will increase the excise duty on this fuel. Currently, the rate is EUR 110 per 1000 litres, but from the moment this law enters into force, EUR 146, which means that the increase will be almost 32%. How do our farmers feel about this? I can say that this is a strong signal to them that agriculture is not a priority for the Estonian state and the Estonian government. A lot of people are going to stop production right now. It is very unfortunate for those who have taken out loans and have invested and cannot repay the loan money, and even more damage is from those who provided personal guarantees for these loans. And that's most of them, because banks don't just lend to the company. Now people may lose their place of residence and all their personal belongings. And they don't have any other choice, they can't do anything about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U290	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Mikhail Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U291	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the waitress of the bill! I welcome everyone, and I have come here to share my thoughts with you. First of all, I would like to talk a little bit about the process we are witnessing at the moment. The draft law amending payments, which is intended to amend quite a number of laws, is dealt with relatively quickly, so that there is practically no time for amendments and, finally, when amendments have been received, everything is linked to a vote of confidence. I say it is not a vote of confidence, I say it is a vote of no confidence. And that's a mistrust for you, dear coalition partners, and that's how the government expresses a mistrust for you. The government you put together doesn't trust you enough to let you discuss three nights. The government is not sure that you will be present at the right moment and will vote as they have agreed. I think the Prime Minister does not trust his group, the Prime Minister does not trust the Socialist Group, and the Prime Minister does not trust the Isamaa and Res Publica Group either. This is the case with one vote where the ambassadors come together and have to press the right button like a man. It's not pretty, it's not correct, and it's a little bit like this regime, the style of leadership that has been constantly criticized in this very room from this very remote control, suggesting that you look at how they're doing badly and we're doing well. In fact, it is not the case, it is just like in those countries we do not want to follow suit. These are very important legislative changes. We are changing the tax system again: we are raising some taxes, we are reducing one tax. We always say that there must be a broad debate in society about which taxes to raise, which taxes to lower. But once again, the bill appeared before us relatively steeply. The Minister passionately reported the draft to us on this board: it is precisely the changes we are offering you that are the changes that will take our society forward and develop it. If you can, offer better. Whether an increase in corporate tax would bring success to the Estonian state, the minister asked ironically. I would say that taxes are a very important part of the economy, but they are not necessarily a fundamental factor that develops the economy. Taxes are a mechanism for the redistribution of money. Taken from those who earn more, and distributed to those who need it more. Unfortunately, over the last few years, our system has moved in the direction of taxing more and more people who do easy work and earn little. Those institutions that carry out financial activities, those institutions that expand their branches in Estonia, have acquired good opportunities to move their financial resources to other countries. A normal person who serves the Estonian economy, who simply does his job, unfortunately has to pay more and more. Years ago, there was an increase in VAT, now an increase in excise duties on fuel. When a person fills up his car's tank, he pays directly when a transport company carrying groceries or other goods fills up its car's tank, he raises the price of his service. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U292	I'm sorry, how much?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U293	Three minutes. All of this leads to an ordinary person paying more and more. Speaking of these changes, I have asked the Minister several times about the reduction in social tax. There is now a clear link between the social tax and the pension fund and the health insurance fund. 20% goes to the pension fund, 13% to health insurance. It'll pay our medical attention, it'll pay our doctors, it'll support our entire pharmaceutical system. According to the new system, this amount will decrease by 1% and will first cost EUR 33.8 million from the sickness fund, next year EUR 86 million and another year 91 million. Why is the loss of one percent very important? When people's incomes increase, the funding of the health insurance fund also grows. If it disappears directly, then it can happen that the funding of the sickness fund almost stops at one point. The Minister claims there will be no reduction. The explanatory memorandum states that the missing amounts are compensated for by other income and that, in the longer term, the tax change increases the net income of employees. It is therefore hoped that people's net income will increase and that the amounts In essence, however, it is a direct deception: one thing is said, but the practice is different. Ultimately, our already underfinanced health insurance fund will be deprived of additional funds. As my time is running out, I will turn to the honourable Social Democrats and ask them a rhetorical question. Your newly elected new leader said that immediately after Midsummer Day, the coalition agreement will be reopened. What are you going to discuss there when the biggest and most difficult changes are being made today? There is little point in discussing or discussing the remaining points in the coalition agreement. Thank you and I look forward to making reasonable choices.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U294	Thank you. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Siret Kotka, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U295	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The Reform Party is promoting itself as a tax reduction. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister's words and actions do not come together in any way. In reality, the situation is the opposite and we could freely baptize the Reform Party into a tax rise party. During the governance of the Reform Party, taxes have been constantly raised. We still remember how the Ansip government raised taxes. Practically overnight VAT was raised from 18% to 20%. The Reform Party pushed these taxes through at a time when the Estonian people were already struggling. The Estonian people were forced to tighten their belts even more, as Greece needed to be assisted. But somehow we have not seen Greece send us sunny greetings. The government could let their people catch their breath for a moment while oil prices remain low. But they don't. The reform party-led government keeps moving forward by raising taxes. Many people may not know that even now, the government of the country is taking over half of what we pay for petrol. This percentage is around 52 and will be even higher in the future. It certainly affects every family. A simple calculation shows that if the family spends 200 euros a month on fuel, more than 100 euros will simply go to tax. And we know that the price of other goods and services also depends on the price of fuel. It is the low-paid people who are hit hardest, as the rise in excise duty increases the prices of food and essential goods. And they're particularly sensitive to them. Tax increases by the Reform Party, IRL and Sots increase poverty and unemployment in Estonia. The government certainly has not taken into account the greater need for income support and other benefits. There is no free public transport in the rest of Estonia, as there is in Tallinn. The state could, by the way, take the example of this good idea and make free routes within the county. It would be of great help to the people of the country. For the capital people's wallet, free public transport provides tangible and much-needed relief. Why shouldn't this be the case throughout Estonia? The tax increases of the Reform Party, the IRL and the Sotsi will, above all, give a very severe blow to the rural population. The country has long distances and fuel costs considerably more than in the city. The government has made living in the countryside a luxury, as transport of both people and goods is much more expensive there. If we add pay poverty in rural areas, it is clear that the rural people are facing even darker times because of the Reform Party, the IRL and the Soviet government. The strangest thing is that the soups who honked before the elections, how they care about people, have been eager to join in implementing the Reform Party and the IRL's excise duty lifting plan. We remember how they swore before they got to the government that they would make or lead, but you can't raise excise duties on fuel, come on, even if it was a car tax. Now the Socats have obviously eaten their words, made their voters doubt and deceived them. They have betrayed their social democratic view of the world. To what, then, does the current government coalition rely? They're counting on the crowd's collective amnesia. Indeed, if the excise duty on diesel in six months' time rises by 14% and then by another 10% in two years, and the excise duty on petrol also rises by 10% in three consecutive years, the year before the elections the government will no longer increase excise duties. 2019 would be a year of forgetfulness of earlier screaming tax increases, like some kind of hypocritical year of tax truce. Why is that? The answer is simple: because the Reform Party, the IRL and the Sots are hoping to be re-elected to the power, in order to start peeling the Estonian people with new and even more gruesome taxes. Higher excise duties on fuel will also hit companies harder, and those who operate on land will suffer more harm. Estonian farmers are in trouble. The first major blow came with the export ban due to the Ukrainian crisis, which resulted in the loss of opportunity for Estonia to sell its products to Russia. The second blow was given by the Estonian Government when it decided not to provide additional support for our farmers, as our southern neighbours Latvia and Lithuania are doing to bring agriculture out of the crisis. On the contrary, the clothing government decides to punish a farmer who is already in need. They intend to increase the excise duty on specially labelled diesel by 9% next year and then by a further 10% each year thereafter. It is clear that the old way cannot go any further, and Estonia needs an exchange. We need a government that develops clear plans that would like to keep an Estonian person who would like to see Estonia live. We need concrete actions, not continuous and insane tax increases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U296	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U297	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu! I'd like to start a little further. I would like to start by saying that in our mainstream media, there has been a turnaround in quite a number of positive keys to the fact that there has been an exchange of generations at the head of our so-called white parties, or coalition parties. Hosanna! The politicians of the old generation, the generation of the singing revolution, have been replaced by a new generation of politicians who should, as if, be more effective in fighting for progressive humanity than those old ones who have stagnamak attached. In reality, we see the opposite picture. We see that there are life experiences at the head of opposition parties, memories that are not read from newspaper articles, but live memories of where we come from. And they have live dreams of where we want to go. This is where we actually get to today and those same tax increases. We come to the point that those people who currently run parties that raise taxes and raise them badly, making it difficult for a very large number of people to cope in the near future, do not really have sufficient experience in life. They haven't built anything. They have received a salary from the taxpayer throughout their conscious lives and have no idea how to cope and manage without the taxpayer's or the European Union's funds. That is the difference between our current opposition and the coalition. There are people in the opposition who know how to build something, who have their own companies, who have experience in life, who have the knowledge of how to make money grow, not how to milk money. One very, very serious conclusion can be drawn from this: political technologies cannot manage the country. The country can only be managed on the basis of economic thinking. What I want to say from this speaker is that the Conservative People's Party is categorically opposed to the tax rise package. We are well aware of the great calls or the great visions-objectives that the Estonian people and the government representing the Estonian people and the Riigikogu representing the Estonian people face. These are the re-population of Estonia as a whole, the revival of Estonian agriculture, the revival of the Estonian economy with creative and productive management, and not the preservation of the economy that somehow uses euro support. These are real challenges. The solution to these real challenges is not to raise taxes, but to tax differentiation, to channel investment through tax policy, to import investment. And by "investment," I mean not only euro money, but the money that has been born as added value in the economy. Our pre-election tax policy was clearly aimed at lowering taxes in order to increase tax receipts. Increase tax receipts! Current tax increases contribute to the widespread expansion of the shadow economy, contributing to the widespread use of envelope wages. And, of course, you can dream of cash being banned or abolished one day at all, but I hope and believe that it will not happen in the near future. If the current government, the current coalition parties push through the tax package and they push through it, there is no doubt about it, then it really means that the opposition has no alternative but to lead the matter to extraordinary elections, because, under the leadership of this coalition, Estonia is moving firmly forward towards the abyss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U298	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I will continue with a topic that I asked the Minister about and which my colleague Valeri Korb also spoke about: namely the impact of the draft on the prices of district heating in Ida-Viru County. I would like to stress again today from this remote control that LNG, light fuel oil with a lower sulphur content and wood chips are preferred in the draft, but mostly all the major cities of Ida-Virumaa, Narva, Kohtla-Järve, Sillamäe and Kiviõli use the heat generated by oil shale. Cogeneration of oil shale heat and electricity allows a valuable resource to be used with a significantly higher utilisation factor than pure electricity production. Narva is currently the country's cheapest price for district heating, but it also has the least viable population. The price of district heating depends on the price of oil shale in Kiviõli, Kohtla-Järve and also in Jõhvi, as the district heating of this region is based on the residual product of oil shale production, ewe gas. The increase in the rate of excise duty on oil shale oil has a regional impact, as it mainly concerns Ida-Virumaa. To date, oil shale production has been competitively more advantageous for consumers. Without VAT, the price limit was EUR 33,54 per megawatt-hour in Narva, EUR 50,57 in Kiviõli, EUR 55,45 in Kohtla-Järvel. All these rates are significantly lower than the Estonian average. Both according to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and on the basis of the replies provided by the Minister of Finance, the increase in the excise duty rate can raise the price by up to 16%. This effect may also be smaller, but the draft does not take into account investments in oil shale-fired boilerhouses which become unnecessary when a boiler house needs to be rebuilt. Nor is the bill intended to compensate oil shale oil-fired boilerhouse owners or heat consumers. I believe that roomoe is not a luxury product in Estonia's geographical location, which we can simply abandon. This has been well exploited by the government coalition over the years. If we look at history, we will see that until 1 July 2007 there was a VAT rate of 5% on thermal energy. Following the entry into force of the amendments to the VAT Act, the rate of VAT on thermal energy was set at 18%. In autumn 2008, the government coalition sought additional resources to implement the state budget by introducing new taxes and raising old ones. One of the most controversial proposals was the idea of increasing gas excise duty, which was immediately reflected in our heat bills. In 2009, the government coalition decided to increase the VAT rate to 20% at very short notice and also the excise duty on natural gas, again reflected in our heat bills. In 2011, the slogan of a party in a government coalition was 'Home expenses'! ', but they're only growing so far. I'm not gonna talk here today about the rise in electric excise. So far, promises have not been honoured and they are still not respected when, after the elections, excise duties are raised, which nobody spoke about before. And if the current government doesn't care what happens in Ida-Virumaa because of these changes, then we don't agree with this regional policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U299	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Tarmo Tamme!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U300	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, I feel that this time the opposition's opposition to the cluster bill and, at all, to a bill that significantly raises taxes is justified. The way it is handled is not the fault of the opposition; this is where the coalition should look in the mirror. The elections took place on 1 March, and it is not our fault that these drafts arrived so late in the hall, so there is virtually no time left for discussion. If we are going to adopt cluster proposals in this way, then one day we will be faced with the question that perhaps it would be wise to put the whole block drafts together, link them to the issue of government trust and then adopt them. But whether this is the hallmark of a democratic state is a question of its own. I ask who gave this government a mandate to raise taxes. During the election a few months ago, no one spoke of tax increases. After all, we have not received, or even asked, a mandate from the people. Where are these discussions, discussions, analyses of the effects of price increases? One of the lies that comes out here all the time is that otherwise children's benefits cannot be increased unless we raise excise duties on fuel or VAT. But they're absolutely unrelated. The Estonian state budget is made up of, I cannot tell you how many tax revenues, but these taxes may be around 100. If you imagine that one out of 100 taxes does not arrive, and this is definitely linked to some kind of expense, then you would not have to spend it. I will give you one concrete example. This year, 47 million euros of VAT was planned for company cars, but in fact, barely a quarter, or 12 to 13 million, was due. If it were specifically linked to a cost item, this cost would not have been paid, for example, child benefits could not have been paid out. So there's no point in cheating on people with this story. Another problem is that there was so little time for discussion that there was no substantive discussion. I look at this among the letters that were received by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and probably by every member of the Riigikogu. In fact, these letters should have been analyzed in essence and discussed where the truth is. For whom is the Riigikogu, if we do not consider interest groups or hold debates? I will read out the strong sub-diversaries who have sent a letter: Estonian Spaiit, Estonian Taxpayers' Association, Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, KPMG Advokaadibüroo OÜ, Estonian Traders' Association, Estonian Power Plants and District heating Association. Even the Latvian Association of Hotels and Restaurants has been concerned that if Estonia raises VAT, we will lose in competitiveness. Apparently, the Latvians sense that they will lose too, because this region will be taken as one. And they already have experience: if they ever raised VAT a lot, then later they had to adjust it. We have a letter from the fuel company Olerex, the contents of which are very concerned, but no one discussed it. There is also Indrek Neivelt's tax statement, etc. There are considerably more opinions, but there was no substantive discussion of these letters. Now we have to think that people's livelihood will soon deteriorate, that goods will cost fuel excise duty and that fuel prices will affect all goods. People living on Earth will be punished again because without a car, it is virtually impossible to move there. But you have to go to a doctor, take the kid to school or take him to a hobby. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U301	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U302	Basically, the money that is being left in the hands of people is being taken back by raising the price of fuel and no one will be happy in this way. One of the most worrying problems for me is that we are losing a lot in the competitiveness of companies. The number of customers in accommodation establishments is 10% lower than a year earlier, while we increase VAT by 5% and reach 14%. In Lithuania, VAT on accommodation services is 9%, in Finland 10% and in Latvia 12%. We're in a common market, we're in competition. Estonia could rather be distinguished by a lower rate of VAT. I think that, in the end, we would win because accommodation provides 10% of GDP. That's a very large number. Out of the exports of services, accommodation provides 30% and the sector employs 45000 people. And now, in a situation where the number of visitors has fallen, we have a significant increase in VAT. I don't get it! Agriculture is, of course, a separate issue. Our government does not understand that farmers operate in an open market. We do not have a closed state that we can unilaterally not provide support here. When the neighbors give it to us, we have to give it to them. In Latvia, the excise duty on diesel is zero, but in Estonia it rises from EUR 110 to EUR 146 per 1000 litres. That's in addition to the top-up we didn't implement. How is it possible to compete in this market? I hope that the two former agriculture ministers will vote against this draft, but they will hardly do so, because the distribution of seats in the government is probably more important. As far as the transport sector is concerned, we have an excise duty on diesel of EUR 392 per 1000 litres, EUR 330 per 1000 litres in Lithuania, and it is also lower than we do in Latvia. We now have a tax to be raised to EUR 448 and the question arises as to why we should refuel in Estonia in the future. Do you have an answer for that? In fact, we are losing this excise and VAT money to Latvia, and where this victory comes from, there is no way to understand. No one has given an exhaustive answer to that. Dear MPs from the Reform Party, the Social Democratic Party and the IRL, think before you vote on whether you have public support for raising taxes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U303	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U304	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I recently had a visit from the Germans, walked around the city and came back after, had a little beer. They said you had some kind of upside-down land, everything was the wrong way around. In the middle of the day, young men sit in a bar or in a coffee shop drinking beer. Who's working for you? Old people, retired people picking bottles. In Germany, it is quite the opposite: the pensioner has bought himself a decent Mercedes and lives in a nice house, but young people have to work. I was beginning to think that we had a lot of things the other way around. Sometimes it seems to me that we have a backward people who tell us that they love their homeland, but as soon as they get the chance, they run away, and for some reason, a country with progressive income tax. When we have schoolchildren in the Riigikogu as part of the My Country project, I have asked them: "Children, do you love Estonia? ' 'Yeah! " says the children in the choir. 'We love Estonia. ' And then I say, "But children, when you graduate, will you stay in Estonia and work? 'No,' the kids say happy, 'we're going abroad. ' In the meantime, it seems to me that we have a reverse tax system. 60% of taxes are collected by the State as indirect taxes. There are few countries that do the same. We have a backward economy because everything where money moves has been handed over to foreigners, for example, banks, gas stations and large supermarket chains. Everything where the money is is in the hands of foreigners, profits will be taken out and the Estonian will be forced to slave for the slave wages. We have a perverse understanding of history. We idealize the 1930s, when the farms were in debt, when the country had reached the point of selling the forests and trying to sell two state warships, no buyers were found, no one wanted to buy to the Peruvian state, and yet through some kind of scam, so the money was not received. At the time, in 1934, the people invented such a poem that our trees and ships were farted, and Estonia's works and troubles were farted. There was such a folk poem, folklore. We have a perverse ideology. We are saying that we have a liberal market economy, that we have absolute freedom. Immanuel Kant, a German philosopher, said that freedom is perceived as an inevitability. Well, our backward government has created the inevitability that we are experiencing, these are the increases in excise duty, which is the tax burden that is falling on the poorest. And there is absolute freedom, man is free, man is master: if he wants to, he lives, if he wants to, he dies, but taxes still have to pay. We have a backward government that says it's business-friendly. At the same time, the previous government welded up these 1000-euro bills with declarations, harassed businesses by car hunting, tried to catch them at gas stations and to twist the fines. Now excise duty and hotel VAT are being raised. It's all about the entrepreneur. If it was still hoped that at least entrepreneurs would trust the government, then it was unlikely that they would. Our government has a preposterous purpose. So far, no slogan has been written down to reach the five wealthiest countries, but somehow with a poorer nation. Our government has a perverse understanding of success. Yes, we are saying that our country is successful, that our budget is balanced, but that the tax burden on the private sector is already exceeding GDP. We'll take the members of the government. The Prime Minister owes EUR 340000, so he will pay it until he retires. And then it's like the Prime Minister's mood depends on how, in one year or another, the bank's pushing these percentages up or down. Our government has a perverse view of the truth. He's lying to himself because I think he believes what he's saying. He's lying to the people. He's lying to Brussels, and that's how these refugees come to us - Brussels says that you're doing better than in France, you're doing better than in the Netherlands, so take in more refugees. I'll ask for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U305	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu to the Valeri Korb! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U306	Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment of the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and other laws is so important that the matter has reached a pretty international level that is also discussed very far from Tallinn and the members of the Riigikogu sitting in this hall. For example, a few days ago we received in our mailbox the European SPA Association's address to the Government of the Republic of Estonia on raising VAT on accommodation services. Very interesting! I would like to ask my colleagues and everyone else who works in this Chamber whether we often receive such appeals when we change the law of an Estonian state in Parliament. We could talk about the information given to us by people who work in Latvia, also the Estonian hotel managers have said their position, but I believe that this is a little far from what we are currently discussing in this Chamber. It can be said with certainty that the draft Act 41 amending the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and other laws will be remembered as a bill intended to be taken rather than given to the people of Estonia. Of course, the draft relates to the programme of action of the Government of the Republic in which the Cabinet of Ministers seeks to increase tax revenue from tobacco products and alcohol. By reducing the social tax rate by 1%, the rate of excise duty on fuel will be increased. You can talk at length about everything that this bill is trying to change, but I believe that each of us already has our own opinion on it, and therefore perhaps we will look at some of the most acute problems related to the draft, in my opinion. The draft proposes to reduce the social tax rate from 1 January 2018 to 32%. However, tax receipts will decrease by 33.8 million in 2017 and by 86 and 91 million euros in the next two years respectively. The social tax is going to go to health insurance, which is 12% instead of 13%, and the amount of public health insurance is greatly reduced. The draft states that it will be compensated by other revenue from the state budget. I'm sorry, but in the round of questions, we didn't get answers from the Minister of Finance about the other sources. It is clear that increasing excise duties will put a lot of effort into people on average and on lower incomes. I do not want to comment on the increase in excise rates for alcohol and tobacco products, which is not the thing that life is going to stop on. But let's look at some other paragraphs that are of interest. Can it be said that an increase in the excise duty on petrol of 10% over the next three years will not affect our daily lives? I looked at the 2011 bill. On average, slightly more than 500 cars have been registered per 1000 inhabitants of Estonia. Each year, this figure increases by an average of 5.4.9%. The total number of registered cars in Estonia is 685000. There are just over 130,000 people living in our country. Turns out there's a car for every two people. The question: do you not need to drive these cars to Statoil, Olerex or another gas station, where next year you will definitely have to pay more for fuel than this year? However, those who do not drive their own car and use public transport will certainly have to start buying more expensive tickets next year after the fuel excise is increased. As an ambassador elected from Ida-Virumaa, I am interested in everything that relates to oil shale. In this respect, it is not very good news that the excise duty on oil shale fuel oil is also rising. We may remember that oil shale fuel oil accounts for 6% of heat production. The boilers that use oil shale fuel oil are just under 500 in the Republic. In this Chamber we have already talked about this when the Minister was asked questions about this sphere. Boilerhouses using specialty diesel fuel are facing a switch to oil shale fuel oil. Let us summarise the money needed to switch boilers, equipment and to maintain them more closely, the consumer will not benefit from it. All these changes related to increasing the excise rate of oil shale fuel oil make heat more expensive in the area where this fuel is used in Ida-Virumaa, Harjumaa and Viljandimaa. In 2016, the increase in excise duty applied will raise the price to EUR 548 per tonne. The current price is 498 euros, so the difference is immediately visible. If we're talking about the price of oil, you could definitely say this is a 10% increase. I was talking about oil shale fuel oil, now let's see what happens to oil shale in the future when this bill is passed by law and the rate of excise duty increases. The heat energy from the oil shale is used in Ida-Virumaa and, of course, my talk goes straight to the large cities that are located there: Kohtla-Järve, Narva, Sillamäe and Kiviõli, where the heat supply is based on the use of oil shale. The volume of sales of district heating companies in these cities accounts for the entire country of district heating...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U307	Good waitress, I apologize to you! Since the manager has to ensure safety in the hall, I have a request not to plant on the balcony edge, nor to have a camera on the balcony edge. Please, good waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U308	I'm looking at the clock...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U309	You'll get the 20 seconds I took from you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U310	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, this bill does not receive my support. Thank you, everyone!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U311	Thank you. Once again, I'm sorry to interrupt! Kersti Sarapuu Riigikogu speech chair, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U312	Ladies and gentlemen, Today, I speak on behalf of all those tourist operators who have specifically addressed us with a request that VAT on accommodation services be not increased, but that they help to remain competitive with all other countries. The abolition of the VAT concession for accommodation services would benefit the whole society, said Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. He also said that there was a need to look at the picture more closely, and added that if the lost amount resulting from the cancellation of the advantage were to be asked by tourists, it was okay because the price increase of some euro would not keep tourists away. Is the whole society still winning or losing? For some reason, more than 400 tourism companies sent a joint statement to the Riigikogu and the government, in which they call the coalition's plan to double VAT on accommodation companies as an irresponsible and unanalysed step, adding that the most painfully possible tax increases will hit rural areas and the wider service sector, young people and other seasonal workers whose wages are already low. Thus, the tax increase is not paid by the so-called 'rich foreign tourist'; rather, it comes at the expense of the wages and jobs of all those employed in the tourism industry. The profit in the tourism sector is almost in the same order as the amount that the government plans to earn by raising income tax. In essence, it is like nationalising the profits of one sector. Hotels make almost as much profit as the coalition plans to take more taxes. As a result, investments and wage increases will be avoided. And raising the minimum wage is accompanied by an increase in staff costs all the time, and so there is no other way to lose money and think about how to put people together, to tighten up their activities. After all, it is a fact that accommodation establishments need a sufficient number of service providers whose wages are spent in smaller and medium-sized enterprises up to 70 to 80% of their turnover. This means that VAT must be paid in full and there is nothing to be recovered. It's as simple as that. Where else do we get the funds to invest and borrow? 'The subject of VAT on accommodation services seems unprepared,' writes former banker Indrek Neivelt in his blog. Since it lacks economic interests in the hotel business and has been a lender to a large part of the start of the current hotels, it is well aware of their operating principles. This is how he defines the accommodation service as largely export. The blog says: 'Mr. Prime Minister stated in Riigikogu Question Time that accommodation establishments have a kind of VAT concession. If that is the case, all companies exporting goods and services will receive a VAT credit. The value added tax (VAT) on exports is zero. It does not matter whether goods or services are exported. This is a general principle. According to statistics, we have two thirds of the tourists accommodated as foreigners. //---/ Therefore, we are not wrong to say that at least three-quarters of the turnover of accommodation establishments is export. It would therefore be fair to reduce VAT on accommodation establishments from 9% to 5% rather than to increase it. ' In a situation where the Prime Minister publicly promised not to lose the tax distinctions before the elections, where the Minister of Finance proposes to cancel the increase in VAT, and the Minister of Enterprise called the plan to shoot himself in the leg, we do not understand who is behind this idea and who is responsible for the consequences, Mr Lahtein, the Chairwoman of the Association of Tourism Companies, wondered. There are only three countries in Europe - Great Britain, Denmark and Slovakia - where there is no VAT speciality for accommodation services. I can also admit that there are no hotel filling problems in London because the whole city is a living history. Unfortunately, Estonia cannot be regarded as a tourist country in this way and every tourist group and every tourist must have a great fight and, above all, try to compete successfully with their neighbours. Tourist experts refer to Latvia, where the VAT rate for accommodation services increased from 5% to 21 in 2009. As a result, the number of jobs decreased by 12000 and the state lost 14 million euros of income and social tax. In May 2010, VAT on accommodation services was reduced to 10%, resulting in an increase of 8.3% in employment and 12% in hotels. VAT currently applies to accommodation companies in Lithuania by 9%, in Latvia by 12% and in Finland by 10%. It is thoughtful that the flow of tourists to Estonia has decreased. In March, the number of Russian tourists decreased by more than 43%, as in January and February, according to Statistics Estonia's data. The World Economic Forum, or World Economic Forum, has just published this year's review of the competitiveness of travel and tourism, shows that Estonia's capacity is falling: we have fallen from 25 to 38. The difficulties encountered by the coalition in finding a satisfactory solution to the sources of cover show the fact that the power parties have no common major goal to move towards, Äripäev finds in one of his editorial notes. All efforts are aimed at achieving a balance in the Excel table, but there is no answer to the question of why something is being done, where they want to go. This is why all the explanations made by the members of the Cabinet on one or another of the tax changes are unconvincing. No minister is prepared to say that money is simply needed to implement the promises and everything, because then, as a next step, it should be acknowledged that the promises made were unrealistic and that their implementation is beyond the power of the taxpayer. Ladies and gentlemen, The statements made by many associations and associations forced us to make amendments which we are, of course, not currently dealing with today. I was hoping that you would support, among others, Amendment 54, which consists of two parts: the abolition of VAT increases on accommodation services, while maintaining the present 9%, and the source of cover was the increase in excise duty on low-alcohol drinks, which would ensure the same level of revenue as the increase in VAT on accommodation services. This is the source of cover that we proposed at the request of the Whole Estonian Foundation, the Society of Estonian Medical Students, the Estonian Health Foundation and several other organisations in order to reduce the alcohol problem, especially among young people. According to statistics, children aged 11 to 12 drink mainly cider, 13 to 14-year-old strong alcohol, and 14 to 15-year-olds try cannabis. Perhaps there will be four or less purchases instead of six bottles of cider. We generally know that four bottles of cider are equal to six alcohols. I will also bring out the impact that would have been had we been able to make this change. Then a bottle of cider and a bottle of beer would have cost 16 cents more by 2020. We wanted to maintain people's health and the competitiveness of the tourism sector at the same time, but it all seems to have been in vain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U313	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Martin Repinski!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U314	Mr President, I would like to ask for three more minutes, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U315	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U316	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We are already discussing for several hours the proposals that the government has taken up: a reduction in taxes on labour and a reduction in the tax burden on people with lower incomes. We have heard a comparatively one-sided criticism of the opposition here for the last several hours, and I am now trying to balance this debate a little bit. As I said, the government took up office to reduce the tax burden on labour and increase child support in order to improve Estonia's demographic situation. These last two goals have not been invented in any way. In order to achieve these two objectives, I think, more or less all political parties in Parliament asked for a mandate in the March elections. We all want the shrinking population to grow, more children to be born in Estonia and cheaper job creation in Estonia. The recommendations of the European Commission were presented to the Committee of Finance of the Riigikogu to Estonia the week before last. Similarly to our government's goal, the European Commission also recommends Estonia to reduce taxes on labour and lower the tax burden on people with lower incomes. The draft that we are discussing here today also serves this purpose. Social tax will fall by 1% and the tax-free minimum will rise to 205 euros over the next four years. I agree that both steps could be faster, both the reduction in social tax and the raising of the tax-free minimum, but the government has been guided by the possibilities of the state budget. The reduction in social tax reduces revenue from the budget by nearly 90 million euros, while every 10 euros means a little less than 20 million euros minus the state budget when raising the tax-free minimum. In addition to international organisations, our Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Confederation of Employers have recognised the need to cut labour taxes. It is important to point out here that the amount by which the social tax is less paid to the sickness insurance fund is compensated by other revenue from the state budget. So it is not quite correct to scare that the health care service in Estonia is now deteriorating. In addition, this draft, when it becomes a law, will increase the additional tax exemption for pensioners so that the average old-age pension will continue to be exempt in the future. These are objectives that depend on the state budget to achieve. And now I'm talking about the sources of cover that only the opposition has been talking about for the last three hours. While, on the one hand, it is important to take into account the possibilities of the state budget in the case of tax cuts, when finding additional sources of coverage, the current policy is to shift taxation more from direct taxes to indirect taxes. As far as excise duties on fuel are concerned, it should be taken into account that in Estonia, cars are in fact relatively low-taxed. Unlike many other European countries, car tax does not apply in Estonia. And when you start looking at the impact of the increase in excise duty, it will be 5 cents per litre per year, or 2.5 euros for a 55 litre fuel tank. The impact on inflation is 0.25%. As regards excise duties on alcohol, the government has agreed with producers and importers to increase this 5% next year in addition to the 10% increases that have already been legalised in previous years. The 5% increase in tobacco excise duty is replaced by an 8% increase over three years. The logic of taxing evils is to ensure that they do not become cheap over time compared to other everyday goods. A few words about the VAT rate for accommodation services. Yes, it will increase to 5%, i.e. 14%, but the VAT preferential rate will still remain in force. I would also like to say to my good colleagues that in Estonia there is no local tourism tax, i.e. city tax, which is between half a euro and five euros per night, as opposed to 17 European countries. This is not the case in Estonia, as is the taxation of cars. Let us look at all tax policy as a whole. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U317	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U318	Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Henn Põllamaa!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U319	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U320	Thank you. Oh, yeah, our government has a preposterous understanding of trust. The government thinks everyone trusts him. If you look at the latest ratings, people don't trust you anymore. Who trusts? The coalition trusts. The Riigikogu does not fully trust it either, but on the basis of the coalition's votes, the government hopes to escape the disclosure of mistrust. But an inverted government that earns a motion of distrust within a hundred days of its being put on the stand certainly doesn't deserve to be trusted. I'd say you can't trust a backward government like that. Whether a motion of mistrust goes through or not, its real purpose is to show the government the place and say, 'You, the government, are backwards, you are wrong and you should be ashamed. ' And if the government doesn't take this thing seriously, let's not take it seriously, but let's remember the childhood poem 'Shame-Shame, pants-cub, squirrel chewed his pants! '. Shame on this squirrel government! Once justice wins anyway, and this backward government gets turned on its head. Then let him get on his feet and get on his way! This time will come, and he will come much sooner than this upside-down government can imagine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U321	Thank you. I now ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair, Remo Holsmer! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U322	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U323	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Three months ago, the election campaign ended and politicians' heads should be filled with fresh ideas to realise today. During the election campaign, they tried to find something new and unprecedented to help Estonia and Estonia cope better. However, the elections are now over. Of the latest innovative ideas within Estonia, only free public transport is worth the prize. So it seems that because of the lack of ideas, many are inspired by past epochs. In an interview with Äripäev, one of the major supporters of government departments expressed the idea that the poor should not be involved in politics. This idea dates back to the revolutionary times of the French First Republic. At the time, the right to vote was a prerequisite for being a taxpayer. The different variations in the philosophy of tax payment and the linking of representation rights are already in the Middle Ages. At that time, the ruler could, at his discretion, raise or lower the minimum tax rate to ensure that he was more loyal to himself, i.e. in the power of a wealthier supporter. The idea of avoiding the decision-making of the poorer population has always been that the rich can still only make laws favourable to themselves and their businesses. The way rich people write laws for rich people does not allow the country to develop normally. We come back to our objective reality. Estonia's largest export article has become our own young people, who are leaving on a massive basis to the countries on the right. However, life is made even more difficult for those who remain here by raising excise duties, which are contained as a particle in the price of almost every product produced in Estonia. Not only is the price of fuel rising as a result of the increase in excise duties, but there will be an overall increase in prices, which will directly impoverish both the Estonian population and local entrepreneurs, most of whom are small businesses. I understand that the state needs money, but luxury cars are expensive. It is difficult to understand the negative side of raising taxes for people who earn around EUR 7 000 per month and who are many in the neighbourhood of the Prime Minister. But for a common person who earns 700 euros a month, this price increase is painfully felt. It is the low-paid people and pensioners who are hit hardest by the tax changes that are being imposed in the Riigikogu. Young families who have decided to create a home on the territory of Estonia and have taken a long-term loan to do so will also be worse. As a result of the proposed changes, the total amount of deductions allowed in the income tax return will decrease from EUR 1920 to EUR 1200, or almost 40%. Fortunately, interest rates are currently low and the impact of this change is relatively low. At the same time, it is clear that interest is not always maintained at these levels and, by reducing the amount of deductions, hypocritical behaviour is exercised towards those who, in good faith and because of the government's booming activity, have taken a heavy loan burden for 30 years. All these changes will be made in particular in order to reduce the social tax paid by operators by 1%. The reduction in social tax would increase the net wage of employees according to the explanatory memorandum to the draft law. I asked the Minister of Finance what the formula should be used to calculate an increase in the net wage of the employees. In reply, I found that companies have, of course, the right to decide whether they want to shift this amount to wages or elsewhere. In the near future, the public sector will channel this money fully into wages. In conclusion, it can therefore be concluded that the public sector will continue to maintain a wage race and that the state plans to raise the salaries of civil servants. However, small businesses and their employees, which are the backbone of our economy, must follow the Prime Minister's recommendations and buy a smaller car or rely on free public transport. The Prime Minister once promised we'd be a new Nordic. Today, however, it is clear that catching up with the Nordic countries is progressing only in terms of prices. The policy currently being pursued by the government is clearly leading to the north of Estonia, but to a different north. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U324	Thank you. I now request the Riigikogu Chair Rein Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U325	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U326	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U327	Good manager! Honourable Riigikogu! Yesterday I saw Estonia. I had to be in two old manor parks: Sangastes and Taageperas. Sangastes welcomes a manor park that is rugged, old and sad. Nine months ago, a rocking bench with a very beautiful metal structure was installed there as part of the European Day for Cooperation, but its tables are already very busy with a white paint peeling from its seats. I didn't see a lot of people. The Native Park around Taagepera Castle is quite different: cared for and cared for. There's life in the park and the castle. There is a tourist accommodation. The people are coming, the people are going, but the money is leaving these people here in Estonia. Whether our ignorant government wants to bring Taagepera's success figure to a lousy position like Sangaste Park was unintentioned. I deeply regret that despite the protests of civil society organisations and 27,000 people and the criticisms of entrepreneurs and economists, the mixed tax vinegret of the government has reached the final vote in the Chamber of Riigikogu. The superficial handling of various important tax changes with a single draft and linking it to the issue of government trust is a clear and direct trampling of good parliamentary practice. Why don't you listen to the voice of the people? The proposed tax changes are short-sighted and unanalysed. The increase in VAT on accommodation services and the sharp increase in excise duties on fuel make Estonia's business environment worse and make it particularly difficult for rural people to cope. Let us be honest, this is not a deliberate decision, but a cover for a 1% reduction in social tax. This is another questionable tax change, the hope of which is not based on economic analysis, but on the blind belief of the Reform Party that it is right and cannot be otherwise. Reform Party! You have been considered to be a business-friendly community. Draft 41 shows that this is far from the case. Your party is an anti-business party with its two shielders. You are trying to find sources of expenditure, not by supporting entrepreneurship, but by punishing businesses and people. Lowering the social tax rate reduces the income of social tax. These sums are intended to be taken back by the government with the other hand from people and businesses. Reform Party, Social Democrats and IRL! You give your people a teaspoon, but you take them with a scoop. The tourism sector, which has been hit hard, is expected to receive 10.2 million additional euros over the next year, thanks to increased VAT receipts. In reality, according to experts, the increase in this tax reduces the number of tourists visiting Estonia and gives a competitive advantage to neighbouring countries. This means a loss of sales revenue for companies, loss of jobs and possibly closure of accommodation facilities. The exact financial loss will only be apparent in the future, but it will probably be greater than the government's expected benefit of EUR 10.2 million. The increase in various excise duties on fuel is expected to generate an additional EUR 65 million next year. At the same time, there is no realistic understanding of how many people and businesses are going to buy fuel from abroad and how this increase can give rise to new opportunities for the sale of illicit fuel. The increase in fuel prices will not be marginal. This significantly increases the costs of private consumers and businesses and weakens the already sensitive economic environment in Estonia. This is also a threat to Estonia's internal security. I'm sorry to hear about our fine Minister of the Interior. The Ministry of Finance has acknowledged in its forecasts that with its retail price of petrol we will be passing the next year from the rest of the Baltic States as well as Poland. However, with its retail price of diesel, Estonia will rise to the European Union average level in 2018, including Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, the Estonian price would be about a quarter higher. There is no point in talking about international competitiveness in such a price difference. Political parties forming part of our country's government! You've really cheated on your people. When you were asked before the 1 March elections where your pledges were covered, you replied that we already had the money. You didn't say anything about raising taxes you just started. The cluster bill under discussion has failed, it is against the will of the people, and it belongs in the waste bin of history. I very much hope that, in today's vote, Members will give a fair assessment of the government's work so far. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U328	There were many people in Tallinn and Tartu who were part of a government district at the anti-excision demonstration organised by the Conservative People's Party. Among the tens of thousands of signatures collected against the excise duty rate and the increase in VAT are certainly thousands of signatures by members of the power parties. Now a few words about the real reason for the vote of confidence. The government, led by Prime Minister Rõivas, can talk as much as possible about the fact that linking the bill to a vote of confidence is a result of the opposition's actions. It's not true, but it's good to blame the opposition for the seventh deadly sin. If the coalition had votes together, these draft laws would have gone through one by one. In fact, this is not a vote on whether the government is trusted, but on the government's mistrust of members of the coalition groups. It is clear that there is no consensus in coalition parties to increase excise duty and VAT, and the only way to push these changes through was to propose them as a cluster bill and link them to a vote of confidence. Therefore, today's vote is not for the opposition, as it is claimed, but because the government does not trust the people of its own political parties and political groups. Good members of the coalition! I'm sorry the hall is empty of you, but I hope some of you are watching through monitors and speakers. I put it to your heart: Listen to the voice of reason and vote against making your own rubber stamp. Do not allow yourself to be humiliated and be run over by an irresponsible government! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U329	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today is a historic day: the day of the bill, the day of clustering or non-trust. Historical, yes, but unfortunately not in a positive way. We are in a situation where, by ignoring all good practices, attempts are being made to impose tax increases on the Estonian people and companies, which were not discussed in the elections and for which there are no reasonable arguments, let alone the need. One hand promises to increase child benefits and the income of low-paid people, which is good in itself, but much more is taken away with the other hand. In addition to the overall increase in the cost of living, this has a devastating effect on the livelihood and development of many sectors of the economy. The average wage in Estonia is said to increase by about 26% over the next four years, and the planned increase in excise duty does not reduce the purchasing power of the people, according to the coalition's leaders. Suppose this is true, although so far wage increases have mainly affected recipients of higher wages. The 26% wage increase will automatically lead to a 26% increase in social tax and income tax receipts. What does that mean? This means that the state would also have no taxes raised and no money left. This means that we should not discuss this bill today, and the plan for raising taxes could be thrown away with a calm heart. The lack of money can only occur if the coalition agreement plans the decline of the Estonian economy and the decrease in the number of jobs, or if false forecasts of gross wage growth are knowingly presented by 26%. There is another danger with the increase in excise duty that the government does not want to talk about. It's about our daily safety, the police, the ambulance and the fire department. Price increases mean an increase in the cost of all these areas. This will either lead to further cuts in staff, which have already been done so hard in the fire department and constable points all over Estonia are closed or the machines will stop at the end of the year due to lack of fuel. The ambulance doesn't reach the people in need, the police don't get to the scene of an accident or crime, and the firemen don't go to put the fire out. The overall increase in the price of fuel excise duties also affects our Defence Forces and Defence League, eating part of Estonia's defence budget. This already poses a direct threat to national security. How large the amounts in question are, this question has not been answered as if it did not matter. There is much to talk about negative aspects, but the opposition and the people are not listening. There's been a lot of talk about this today, and I'm not going to go over it again. It is no secret that, in addition to opposition parties, members of coalition parties protest against tax increases. For example, the Tartu region of the Reform Party made a statement in which they deplore the faction of the party's banner away from the people and the principles of the party and condemn the cluster bill of tax changes under discussion, the necessity of which, according to them, cannot be understood by the members of the Reform Party's group. I know that much of the people of other coalition parties share the same view. Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U330	So this is how three reform companies have written, who should know this area. Why the government doesn't even listen to or take account of these experts from the government department is incomprehensible to many in this hall and outside the hall. The arguments have sounded, and I just want to make a decision for my esteemed colleagues here: "I understand! ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U331	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, as many as you are in the Chamber now! There are not many people in the coalition, but I hope they are busy in front of televisions in their group's rooms or offices, because this whole debate is about their activities. All day long, we have heard explanations of why it is absolutely necessary to reduce social tax, why it is absolutely necessary to increase VAT on accommodation services. At the same time, Mr Sester unscrupulously stresses that the distinction remains. The difference would remain even if we were to raise the rate to 19% instead of the difference. We are talking about the attitude of the current coalition parties to the entire people, our voters and the opposition. Throughout January and February, all these new people who are now sitting in this Chamber as ambassadors and who belong to either the Social Democratic Party, the Reform Party or the IRL, without even blinking, promised the people that they would not become like the old ones. They go to Parliament to change politics, they go to defend the interests of the people. And what are you doing here now? You're the same, no difference. Let's see last week's night hearing, for example. At two o'clock or three o'clock in the morning, when the call came, everyone ran loyally into the hall without even knowing which button to press. The neighbor was asked whether it was red or green. Really, it was! What are you doing here anyway? Believe me, in February 2019, when there is a new election at the door, you will go to these very people unscrupulously to say that you did not want to do this. Honestly! But look, they, the others wanted to, and there was nothing I could do. That the witches were guilty or the IRL was guilty, but we wanted good. Honestly! That's who you are. At last week's night hearing, the main argument against the opposition was that the opposition wanted to prevent child support from rising. We are still horrible people; we do not want to increase child benefits by EUR 5! At the same time, you are pushing through the rise of excise fuel without blinking your eye and trying to sell this idea to single mothers who live in the country and drive their $500 car 30 kilometres to work and back home, and to whom our Prime Minister, without even blinking, suggests buying a new car. Unindicted, like the right man in the past! With regard to crossing the road roll, we will see for the third time in the last 20 years that there will be a vote of confidence. The first time was during Mr Ansip's time and then, in my opinion, it was justified. Indeed, in times of economic crisis, decisions were urgently needed and a vote of confidence was justified. The last two times, however, have been decided by our fine Prime Minister and completely without need. In fact, simply so that they can go home and sleep peacefully and do not have to argue with the opposition. I'm pretty sure there's nothing that's gonna change, it's gonna be like this, the Riigikogu is a rubber stamp. I have already accepted that, but I am sorry that the new ambassadors of the coalition parties have also agreed. They promised to bring fresh blood, new look, new winds, new politics. But everything's the same, no difference. I'm just asking you, before you vote, to think once that during the next election campaign, you have to explain your behaviour to the people. I believe you're doing this well because you're learning quite a lot of demagoguery here and that everything is for sale. But that's up to you. A calm heart and a good decision! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U332	Ladies and gentlemen, Tax policy is not some kind of primary school issue. I had a very good teacher a little more than a dozen years ago. I was then the new chairman of the Tartu City Council, and then the Mayor of Tartu, Andrus Ansip, took my fatherly care of me and taught me the simple wisdom of politics. The one thing he said was that only stupid people think taxes are for money. A wise politician knows that taxes are like a wheel in the hands of a head of state who turns the country where he wants to. He explained kindly to me, not only once, but several times, even where the steering wheel had to be turned. The wheel must be turned in such a way as to ensure the sustainability of the country, its competitiveness, to promote developments that lead to the prosperity of the country, and to reset those that do not benefit, which lead to the downhill. In Estonia today, you could sometimes recall those words. I can write them out of the diary and put them on the wall big time. The point is that today, too, we must not forget for a moment what competition is, competition between countries too. At the university, such as the University of Tartu, it is said that in order to keep your place, you must run very quickly so that you do not turn away from the world or from below. This applies in all areas. A dozen years ago, an interesting thought came up in Tartu. We found that one way to ensure the competitiveness of Tartu is conference tourism. We thought it was a niche to occupy. The city of Tartu has excellent prerequisites for this: good universities, pretty good international recognition. And that was a few years ago, when the University of Tartu expressed its enthusiasm for the fact that we hold 365 international scientific conferences a year, but this figure was well remembered, as many days a year. So this isn't a corner action. By the way, conference tourism was also on the electoral platform of all parties in Tartu as early as the last millennium. All the parties looked at each other suspiciously, who wrote off who. In fact, it turned out that everyone had written off a single document from the jointly drafted development plan 'Tartu 2012'. So, indeed, this is not the direction of one party or another. It was also noted that conference tourism has several positive outcomes. First, scientific life develops and the activity of publishing becomes active. And you know, participants in scientific conferences are such nice people who, when they liked it, come back again and again, sometimes as regular holiday tourists. There was talk today that tourism was going well. Actually, it's not going very well anymore. If we're looking at conference tourism, we're gonna need a bunch. No, not cluster law, but a cluster of conferences, because major international conferences are no longer organised in one or two or three halls, saying that there could be a dozen of them. The conference tourism of the city of Tartu also fluctuates with a knife for the simple reason that the connections to the rest of the world are worse than those of competitors. If we compare the possibilities of Riga and Tartu, Rindi has a great advantage in terms of roads. We have so far believed that we also have many advantages, such as even cheaper accommodation prices, but we can lose this advantage quite quickly. When I spoke to the hotel businessmen, they claimed that, in the case of a cluster bill, as in the case of other drafts, we should not only look at today, but what we will ever get to. They claim that we have created all the prerequisites for the Estonian accommodation facilities to go badly, as well as the conference centres. I'll give you just one example, that's all I can do. For example, let us compare air traffic. When Tartu City Council asked if it was possible to establish air connections with Tartu so that conference tourism could be developed better, Tallinn Airport replied that this was not possible. Tallinn Airport has become very active, even aggressively active, in order to be a passenger airfield between Riga and Helsinki Airport. Come to Tallinn, you will travel here, so you can promote Estonia! I am not going to talk about the experience of Denmark, although it is quite interesting, today it has already passed. One of our competitors in conference tourism is Denmark alongside Latvia. That is what our good colleague Imre Sooäär said, who reminded us that in Denmark, the VAT rate for conference tourism services is 0%. It's not a fiction, it really is. In today's debate, there were times when there was such a wonderful world of illusions. Naive bona fide belief or bona fide belief that higher VAT rates would increase the price of the counter by 3%. There was also a great deal of enthusiasm about how the state helps the sector to compensate. It reminded me of an occasion when the peasants wrote to their king that they had no bread for the following month. The king sent them a plate of good sandwiches and said: "The state has helped you. This kind of disproportion can sometimes be observed in these disputes. Sometimes people say you can't put a chicken in a pot that lays eggs or even gold eggs. May or may not? You know, sometimes when things are really bad, you have to sin a chicken that lays eggs. Listen, are things that bad already and we just don't know it? And I was also saddened that there was just talk of hijacking, and a good colleague, Holsmer, talked about it. It seems to me that it should not be done either that the coalition is hijacking the monopoly on behalf of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U333	Thank you. I now invite the Riigikogu Chair Enn Frontland. Would you like eight minutes? Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U334	Ladies and gentlemen, A few weeks ago, the government coalition finally presented a package of long-stricken tax changes, which went through the government's coordination circle in three separate drafts, but before Parliament came another cluster. This tax package has been compressed into things that are virtually impossible to deal with together. For example, there is an increase in the tax-free minimum in the bill, which the opposition would like to sign, but there is also an increase in excise duties on fuel, which must be combated by all measures. The government needs this tax package to be completed by all three readings in Parliament before 1 July, in which case it would be possible to start selling fuel with a higher rate of excise duty in January 2016. According to the opposition, this haste with negative changes is unacceptable and clearly detrimental to human well-being. At the same time, ministers have confirmed by the hangar that the increase in excise duty will only lead to a few cents higher per litre, but who wants to think about a more sustainable car? In fact, everyone understands that the increase in excise duties does not only affect the price of fuel. In case of an increase in excise duty, you need to look at the bigger picture. When speaking first of all about passenger cars and the increase in travel expenses, it should be stressed that the increase in excise duty affects people in rural areas in particular. On Earth, public transport is known to be quite limited, and a car is essential to get to work for tens of kilometres. As the distance travelled is large, the future bills will also be higher. However, the people in my constituency in Saaremaa and Hiiumaa are concerned that the increase in fuel prices will inevitably lead to an increase in the cost of ferry tickets. In addition, the islanders have a headache that the thinning of filling stations increases and that already several decades of fuel procurement travel is even longer. A known expression says the winner takes everything. As a winner of the elections, the Reform Party should have the full right to pursue the policy they want and for which people have given them their mandate. This is mostly the case, but this is not the case with raising excise duties on fuel. The Prime Minister's party did not say a word before the elections that it was about to start increasing excise duties on fuel. There's no mandate for that. Rather, it is necessary to do so. Since reformers are not prepared to give up part of their promises and there is no courage for major tax changes, excise duty must be increased. However, it is certain that the Estonian people do not like this whole plan. First, thousands gathered for protests against the raising of excise duties on fuel, and then they were very active in confirming with their signature the same reluctance. While the Free Party collected a thousand signatures on the collective appeal it initiated, nearly 30,000 people signed up to the anti-removal action initiated by the Centre Party. It can be assumed, however, that even such a great mass does not mean much to the government coalition. This is where the opposition must intervene actively and prevent the adoption of the tax package by all available means. There is no need to fear that, as a result of such an obstacle to the procedure, positive amendments will not be accepted. Only negative tax changes need to be notified six months in advance and the long-awaited tax-free minimum, and the increase in child benefits will certainly be adopted and implemented in due time. The Central Party Group of the Riigikogu submitted 97 proposals to amend the draft law on tax increases initiated by the government, as the tax package in the form of a cluster bill is raw and its content is detrimental to the well-being of the people. Our amendments provided, above all, for an increase in excise duties on fuel and for the abolition of an increase in the VAT rate on accommodation establishments. It is clear that these steps will reduce people's well-being and there is no mandate for them. Our proposal is first of all to cut the social tax by 1% and, together with this, the excise duty on fuel and the increase in VAT on accommodation facilities could be avoided. One of the amendments tabled was aimed at raising the tax-free minimum faster than planned. The government coalition plans to raise the tax-free minimum to 205 euros. Although the tide is undoubtedly to be welcomed, we can see that it can be done to an even greater extent. The promise of the Reform Party before the elections was to raise the tax-free minimum to EUR 300. That is the extent to which we have tabled our own amendment. The government coalition is known to have 59 delegates in Parliament, but their ranks are far from unity. I am quite convinced that some of these 59 are opposed in the heart, for example, to the increase in VAT on accommodation establishments, which is a powerful blow to our tourism sector. There are also resistance to the rise in fuel excise duty. Last week's Wednesday night session was the first place to think about them, and there is still time to think about it today. I very much hope that many coalition ambassadors will think of the people, not just the orders, before they press the button. In this case, we will be able to cancel harmful tax changes. Ladies and gentlemen, It's a world-wide wind day. Even if today's political outbreak does not bring about major changes in the country's sky, it will give the coalition a storm warning, supported by the Estonian people, who will finally decide who they trust as their leaders. The results of the latest polls provide sufficient food for thought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U335	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U336	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Unfortunately, when paraphrasing a previous speaker, it seems that coalition ambassadors have winds in their heads. Important arguments against the adoption of this cluster law today have mostly already sounded here, but since the coalition ambassadors are not listening to the opposition anyway, I thought to quote you from three reform parties. Maybe their arguments work better. The mayor of Haapsalu, the experienced reform party Urmas Sukles, has written that it is sad to see how the arguments put forward by many experienced entrepreneurs and analysts and the sad experiences of neighbouring countries that the impact of such tax increases is detrimental to the economy and exports of Estonia as a whole are like water to our leaders. According to Sukles, an entrepreneur has not yet met who would say that a reduction in social tax to the extent that it is planned would have any decisive effect on the undertaking. Reducing the labour costs of companies that have been highly developed in this way does not even have a cosmetic effect. The proposed 5% increase in VAT on accommodation services is, in fact, the loss of a large part of the industry's profits, if any. So this is what the Reform Partyman, the mayor of Haapsalu and the spa dealer Urmas Sukles have written. Verni Loodmaa, Chairman of the Board of the Association of Estonian Hotels and Restaurants, member of the Reform Party, has written: 'As 2/3 of accommodation services go for export, you could say that VAT is unjustified at all in the case of accommodation services. It should be zero, like the rest of the exports. It is not a question of favouring one business area in particular, as the inventors of the tax increase say, but of maintaining the competitiveness of the provision of accommodation services. Hotels are the oxygen of an economy with an international dimension,' writes Loodmaa and reports that approximately 45000 people work together in closely interlinked accommodation and catering facilities, with an average salary of about 630 euros or well below the average in Estonia. According to Loadmaa, the reason for this is not the desire for profit of the owners of local or international hotels and inns, but the low added value of the sector. 'Estonia has a total of 18,000 rooms and 41000 beds; in February, according to Statistics Estonia, only 36% of these rooms were filled, and on average the room in Estonian accommodation facilities cost 32 euros. There is no fun and flower party here,' writes Loodmaa and says that in rural tourism farms the first flower will flourish after Midsummer Day and the last flower will wither at the latest by the day of regaining independence, August 20th. Loodmaa says that in the current situation, a step backwards would be a long step towards a more successful Estonia for all citizens. This step backwards is also a repeated recommendation from this speaker board for a coalition. Reform party Roman Kusma of Rakvere has written that when the government declared that tourism is now a priority in Estonia and that tourism is competitive at international level, we will reduce VAT on accommodation as in most developed European countries to 5%. This was done, a number of companies linked their plans and investments to the hotel industry, thousands of jobs were created, much more taxes were collected from the Treasury, and the swelling economy as a whole began to take on its present face. Hotels made great efforts in foreign markets to attract people to Estonia, and the state also contributed to this in the form of EAS activities. It must now be said that the State is likely to give these operators the wrong signal to deal with. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U337	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U338	I would like to ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair Jaak Madison!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U339	Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair in Mailis Reps! Traditionally eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U340	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! Today, the negative effects of the next tax package have been highlighted quite thoroughly in a number of speeches, while, on the other hand, attempts have been made to convince the Chamber that there are also details that deserve to be praised. On the education side, let me also say some sad thoughts about Bill 41. When we analyse tax increases from the point of view of children and parents, these increases in excise duties on fuel, plus VAT, are very much affected. It also affects local authorities, and this is particularly true of what I asked the Minister about today. I am thinking of the annual debates on the functions to be performed by local authorities and the state. They should end with a compromise and agreement, but unfortunately the disputes have not led to an agreement in several consecutive years. One loose ends has been student transport. Although the number of children in rural areas in Estonia is decreasing very rapidly, the settlement remains, and these dozens of children must also be moved to the rural municipality school. However, the tax base is weakening and, unfortunately, the percentage of income tax received by the local government has not been restored, which was reduced in the year of the cut with a promise that it would be temporary. In reality, this means that student transport is an ever-increasing challenge for the local government year after year. Now that fuel prices are rising and rising considerably, a new and painful aspect has been added to it: how many of these circles should we still do and perhaps make the bus do an even larger circle instead of several circles, which means that the child will not rise again at six, but in some places maybe at half past six. The second aspect, which has not been touched on here today, is our investment. If we look at our investments in recent years, we are very proud that our most interesting tourist attractions, many of which are aimed at children, are away from the centres. I hope you've been to the Road Museum and Pokumaa and discovered the Ice Age Centre or visited some exciting manor, it's Kukruse Polar Manor or some other, and you know that most of these places are related to education. Both kindergarten and school children are expected and expected to arrive there. Unfortunately, not all parents are able to pay tour money several times a year. It was one of the big debates in one of the previous Riigikogu, whether basic education is free of charge when the tour money is constantly collected. The Riigikogu then came to the conclusion that in principle such a tour of money should not be collected on a compulsory basis, because we have a basic education free of charge. Which would mean that this money should be found by the schoolmaster, or local government, who is unfortunately unable to do so. Just as we are in a fork in these wonderful places, the schools of wealthy municipalities and the children whose parents are able to pay the money. Very many children, however, are deprived of these experiences precisely because transport is too expensive. Of course, fuel consumption also applies to technical sport and the technical circle. And when we look at the current monthly allocations for technical sports, every euro that comes in there is worth gold. In order to maintain the technical circle in any way, it is still necessary to raise funds from local authorities and sponsors, as well as from projects and euro-grants. When fuel prices rise, there is no hope that a teacher in the technical circle could also receive an extra euro. Of course, the increase in excise duties on fuel will affect all the education of interest. Today, it has already been said in a few presentations that expensive fuel in the country often means that local governments no longer have additional rounds. While it was common a few years ago that the local government kept a bus running around at the end of the school day in order to meet the children who wanted to go to the circle of interest, many municipalities no longer have this possibility. Which means that almost all the burden is on parents' shoulders. If a tank of petrol starts to cost more than €10.15, this could mean for some families with children that one or the other circle of interest should be abandoned. These are not achievements in which the starting Riigikogu should want to go down in history. Fortunately, tax increases are foreseen in stages. I hope that if this summer there will be no understanding of what such a tax increase really means for families with children, then perhaps it will arrive in the next few years. On the one hand, the growth in child benefits is very positive, but on the other hand, the situation of families with children is very badly affected by the planned tax increases. During the next summers we will be able to meet enough voters and perhaps they will remind us, at least in rural areas, what mandate the Riigikogu and the members of the government have actually obtained and what expectations have been of this Riigikogu. To sum up, the expectations and hopes of the rural people have been quite different. We are expected to turn to the rural people again and believe that it is possible to live in the countryside. Today's decisions, however, are unfortunately aggravating. Perhaps there is an opportunity to renegotiate everything in some places this summer, so we will come back here in the autumn with new initiatives and new expectations. Lots of power for us to do this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U341	The price of average overnight stay in Estonia is 32 euros and the increase in the VAT rate affects this amount slightly more than 1 euro. During the next budget period of the European Union, EAS will channel EUR 60 million for specific support measures in the tourism sector, with a further EUR 6 million added by the government. Ensuring air connections from Tallinn to European capitals is essential for Estonia as a tourist country, and the state will certainly be willing to contribute to their development in the coming years. This, too, should not be forgotten in this debate. Now the discussions in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. We dealt with this draft at a total of four meetings of the Commission. We also discussed very thoroughly the letters received and all the political groups were able to make amendments, which received a total of 201. I have to say that when you basically dissected these proposals, there was a feeling that there is, in fact, a desire in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu to simply delay the processing of this bill. The minimum length of recreational craft, and for example the take-off mass of small aircraft, is relatively difficult to discuss together with the reduction of labour taxes. The proposals for amending the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act concerned the management of the Health Insurance Fund and had no connection with the issues governing the draft. In other words, when the opposition groups are talking about the 'cobar bill', it was with their amendments that they wanted to turn this draft into a cluster and extend its scope considerably. During the proceedings of the draft act, the Riigikogu also received two collective appeals on the subject of excise duties on fuel, one from the Free Party and the other from the Centre Party. The first of these was also discussed in substance in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. There is a procedural point of view for the political groups of the Riigikogu. The form of collective redress was created for non-parliamentary civil society organisations so that they could participate in the legislative process and make proposals. The two political parties of the Riigikogu have now hijacked this form and used it to realise their political interests. Let me remind you that each member of the Riigikogu and the political group have the right to initiate draft laws and propose amendments. I certainly do not wish to minimize the importance of the appeals submitted to the Riigikogu, but let this reference be made to further debate on the organisation of the work of the Riigikogu. We are discussing a bill relating to trusting or distrusting the government. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I can say that our group supports the adoption of a draft reduction in labour taxes and trusts the government in its work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U342	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Olga Ivanova!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U343	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Today the composition of Riigikogu XIII is forced to deal with the cluster bill as a matter of urgency. Unfortunately, this is not the first time that the government and coalition parties decide to ignore the democratic principles of the draft law and drive over the opposition road roll. Crossing the road roll is in particular that the deadline for submitting amendments was reduced from 10 days to three days. This means that all the proposals received on the Commission's table on Monday evening were already discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs on Tuesday, whereas no one asked about the opinion of the officials of the Ministry of Finance and the analysis of their amendments except for the representatives of the opposition. And they were often answered that the Ministry did not have access to one or the other amendment and could not have a position. As early as 2011, the current President of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestor, lamented: 'The cluster bill sent to Parliament by the government is often incomprehensiblely and impractically drafted and leads to confusion and incompetent procedure in committees. ' In his opinion, the government tried simply to cross the Riigikogu with the drafts agreed on for convenience. At the time, the long-term member of the Riigikogu, the chairman of the Constitutional Committee, Rait Maruste, was also of the same opinion, whom we unfortunately no longer see among the members of the Riigikogu today. Now, unfortunately, the method, which was not considered right until some time ago, is being re-used and the road roll policy is gaining strength. Crossing the highest legislative body of the Republic of Estonia has only one objective: to increase excise duties and VAT on accommodation establishments from 1 January of next year. This raises the question of whether this haste and the incompetent procedure of dealing with the draft law are really driven by the desire to improve the well-being of our country and its inhabitants. I dare say not. The rise in fuel excise is causing a lot of problems. Firstly, if families with higher incomes continue to manage, the cost of fuel to middle-income and low-income families will be a huge hole. The cynical suggestion of Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas to buy a smaller car and to solve this problem shows his attitude towards people. The rise in food and services prices affects everyone, including those who do not have a car and who do not go to filling stations. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister does not want to admit this in his analysis. In addition, the increase in fuel prices will also put a huge hole in the local government budget, as the highest price increase is expected in bus and coach traffic. On top of all this, the government will only lay its hands on it and say, "Let it be done." In other words, local authorities themselves have to worry about where to take the money so that rural people can take the bus at an affordable price. The government association plans to reduce social tax by 1%, which leads to up to EUR 90 million a year. The explanatory memorandum states that the part of pension insurance paid from social tax does not cover 20% of the state's pension obligation, with a deficit of approximately EUR 400 million. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U344	You have eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U345	The deficit will persist in the future. It does not have to be a very good mathematician to realise that a reduction in the share of pension insurance paid out of social tax would further increase the deficit. Therefore, future pensioners, including many of us, should be concerned. The draft package also provides for a change in the special incentive for tourist accommodation, i.e. an increase in VAT to 14% instead of the 9% currently in force. It is known that more than 60% of people in Estonia work in the service sector. 80% of the accommodation staff are women. With its decision, the government freezes the wage growth and investments in this sector, while the Estonian tourism sector has developed precisely because of investments. I think we all agree that the three-star hotel in Estonia and, for example, the three-star hotel in Turkey are not comparable. The success of Estonian accommodation is in good service, which requires a good workforce. According to the Association of Hotels and Restaurants, Estonia could learn from Latvia and Lithuania's mistakes and not raise the VAT rate for accommodation services. That's an argument the government doesn't want to hear. In summary, today we see a coalition on the verge of disintegration trying to push through tax increases, which will certainly make ordinary people's lives more difficult. Once again, a roller coaster is driven over the opposition and most of the people here, and people's wishes are not taken into account. This is not the most appropriate tactic in a democratic country. This is not fair to the Estonian people. It's wrong to give it with one hand and take it with the other hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U346	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Aadu Musta!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U347	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U348	Eight in all, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U349	Thank you. I now request the Riigikogu Chair of Jüri Adams!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U350	Thank you. I wish you the strength to find it! I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U351	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am not original either, but I am repeating myself, saying that this bill is skewed in its substance, form and the way we deal with it here. Obviously, after increasing excise duties on fuel, the prices of other energy carriers will rise and life will be more expensive. It is obvious that raising VAT on hotels will have a negative impact on rural tourism, small businesses, and it is obvious that these drafts should have been treated separately and not as a cluster. This statement that there have been even worse examples in the history of the Riigikogu is not a very good counter argument. With regard to the way in which the proceedings are conducted, the fact that the government has linked this bill to the question of trust reduces the possibility for the Riigikogu to speak further, in addition to what was already due to the pressure of time. At this point, I would like to emphasise once again the disappointment that the representatives of the Free Party feel about the fact that our 11 amendments, all of which are substantive, will not be voted on in the large Chamber. We believe that they are reasonable and in every way such that we could also seek support from representatives of coalition parties. The probability that the coalition's representatives mistrust the government of Taavi Rõivas today is certainly less than if they could have voted in favour of one or the other of our amendments. For some reason, I refuse to believe that simply treating taxes as a "milking machine" of the government in order to find a cover for the election promises of the various parties to the coalition is all the philosophical baggage that coalition ambassadors carry with them. Many of them are undoubtedly wise. Therefore, I really would have liked them to have had the opportunity to vote on our amendments. At the beginning of the sitting, Jüri Adams made an ironic remark that perhaps opposition ambassadors would have to cut off their tongues so that they would not inherit too much. My point here is the opposite: the mouth is largely shut by the representatives of the coalition, and this way of dealing with the bill will certainly reduce their ability to express their real will and perceptions further. Mr Parts pointed out earlier that the IRL Group would be happy to open its mouth, but I do not think this has happened during this whole discussion. But let's wait, I'm a hardened optimist. Perhaps something will happen in the vote that has not happened so far. The Free Party Group will undoubtedly vote against this bill. I think it is necessary to warn once again about this widespread bad practice. In the light, among other things, of this mysterious six-month rule, it may continue to occur here that tax changes will be brought before the Riigikogu in the spring. And then they'll be very busy by Midsummer Day, you can't leave anything for the fall. So there is the temptation to go the easy way of resisting and link tax changes to the issue of trusting the government. This could start to happen again. So far, this has been an extremely rare case in the history of the Riigikogu, but now we see such a procedure under the leadership of Taavi Rõivas for the second spring in a row. Certainly, in response to this six-month rule, some mechanisms with which the Riigikogu could establish itself should be found. Otherwise, we're gonna be the rubber stamp we don't want to be inside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U352	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Due to § 137 (6) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, amendments to this item will not be put to the vote and the final vote will be taken under section 7 of the draft. Let us move to preparing the final vote. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U353	Thank you. I would like to take a five-minute break on behalf of the Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U354	Good co-worker, that opportunity would have been before the hall call. The signal for your procedural question was triggered after the sergeant had lasted 15 to 20 seconds. So, unfortunately, I can't recess. Good fellows, I'm gonna put Bill 41 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 58 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 41 against and no abstentions. Draft Act 41 on amendments to the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed. Dear colleagues, our next item on the agenda is related to the written request made by 33 members of the Riigikogu to 'Publication of confidence in Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas'. So that everyone can get to know it, I'll take the manager's break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U355	Mr President, today I am trying untraditionally not to ask for more time. The Hyde Park type performance that took place here over the last three hours has been very interesting for me, at least. I have learned things about many members of the Riigikogu that I probably wouldn't have learned in any other way. I now know what their life experiences are, what their interests are. Thanks for that, anyway. However, my current coming to this remote control is related to the fact that I want to make a request to you and perhaps also to the paid officials of the Riigikogu, perhaps someone can help me. In fact, for a few weeks now, I have been looking for a place where the six-month principle, which is said to have been written into some kind of Estonian legislative act, was written. Referral to this act should be an answer to a petition submitted by a large number of employers' organisations with signatures. I have not been able to find the name of this text. Is this a law, a decision of the Riigikogu or something else, and where is it published? Today I put the same question here to the rapporteur at the beginning of this debate. The rapporteur remembered the very important fact that such a thing was adopted on the last working day of the previous Riigikogu, but he did not know the legislative act in which it was written. In the meantime, I tried to track it out of the electronic State Gazette, but it didn't work out, sometimes I was incompetent. I imagine I would have found it in a paper edition, but I should have found out before what the National Journal numbers might have been, where the texts adopted last day, which were probably a lot. Now, however, writing all kinds of search words on the Internet did not bring me one step closer to my goal. And no one has told me that he remembers anything in particular. This fact of adoption, which was remembered by the current Minister of Finance, who was then chairman of the Committee on Finance of the Riigikogu, is the first to which I have received confirmation. I'm asking everyone who knows how to help me complete this detective work that I've been doing for a couple of weeks in turn with other things. It's getting more and more exciting for me. This six-month rule is retreating from me like some kind of threatening shadow in a criminal night town. Please help me if you know anything!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U356	Honourable Riigikogu! Our next item is the written request made by 33 members of the Riigikogu to express censure to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. I remind you of § 133 and 134 of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act. The item will begin with the statement by the Prime Minister. Questions can then be asked to the Prime Minister, each member of the Riigikogu may ask one oral question. This will be followed by negotiations. Representatives of the political groups will be heard during the negotiations, with representatives of the Central Party Group and the Conservative People's Party of Estonia first. The final vote will then take place. In order to express a mistrust to the Prime Minister, it is necessary that the vote of censure be the majority of the Riigikogu. Let's get started. Prime Minister Taavi in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U357	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 8 April in the Riigikogu speaking about the foundations of the formation of a government, I described to you the main tasks that this government faces: ensuring that Estonia is even better protected, the economy grows, the incomes of Estonian people increase, economic growth benefits everyone, we have more children, state affairs become more effective and Estonia's presidency in 2018 would have a success story. Two months ago, you gave me authority to form a government and to carry out their duties. In this short time, decisions have been made to increase the presence of the Allied forces and improve Estonia's defence capabilities. The draft laws on the reduction of social tax, the increase of the tax-free minimum, the introduction of a tax refund for low-paid persons and the increase of child benefits have reached the Riigikogu. The government has created opportunities with a budgetary strategy to support agreed high targets while maintaining a balance between state revenue and expenditure over the next four years. Preparatory actions for administrative reform have been launched. These are just a few examples. In just two months, the governments of the Estonian Social Democratic Party, the Pro Patria and Res Publica Association and the Reform Party have proved themselves in action. We have made clear the major problems facing Estonia and we have taken steps to solve them. We have not asked the opposition for a hundred days without criticism, but we have started working from day one. We are not afraid of criticism. I am convinced that shifting the tax burden from hard work to consumption is the right way. Taxes, taxes on labour, and the fall most affecting people's daily lives. The impact of this policy is far greater than the amount more available on payday. Reducing the tax burden on labour will help create jobs with higher wages in Estonia and increase the well-being of all of us. The government is convinced that its policies are correct. We keep our promises to the people of Estonia. In the words of President Lennart Meri, 'Trust is not a dowry that has been gathered in the garland until it has been filled. Trust must be renewed every morning of God, restored day by day, raised like capital, and held as initial capital. ' The Estonian Social Democratic Party, the Fatherland and Res Publica Association and the Reform Party have formed a government whose mission is to solve the major problems facing Estonia. We continue to work day after day to renew the trust of the Estonian people every morning. Honourable Riigikogu, I would like to ask you to vote against the publication of censure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U358	There are questions for the Prime Minister. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U359	Dear Taavi in the garment! The government you run decided to abandon the usual handling of the bill of tax increases and link it to a matter of trust. The Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu states that this option primarily restricts the rights of the opposition and is intended to be used primarily by a minority government which otherwise has difficulty implementing its policies or in crisis situations. If it is simply used for convenience in order to take a decision quickly, it is not legitimate, precisely because it does not follow the principle of parliamentary practice but muzzles the opposition. Is there a crisis in Estonia at the moment why you chose such an urgent procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U360	A good questioner and a starter of mistrust! For several weeks now, it has been possible to hear your words from the public that the government is likely to want to link its policy to a vote of confidence. However, we have made it clear that we are not doing this and are also prepared to conduct the night sessions you have organised. Last Wednesday, you said in a clear way that you would initiate a motion of distrust against the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia, because you do not like government policies. With this step, with this statement made on Wednesday, you actually committed yourself to the whole government policy, at least in the key to these three important drafts, the question of trust. I assure you that the coalition delegates were also prepared for more than 40 hours of continuous work, which of course would have had an impact on their health and would not have been very substantial. we know that your plan was to take ten minutes of break and not have a substantive debate at that time, but we were ready for it. You have decided to initiate a motion of censure, to link the implementation of our policy to a vote of confidence. We're ready for that, too. We are ready to answer the opposition's questions. Paradoxically, the current format gave the opposition one more chance to get answers from the Minister of Finance today for more than six hours, and to explain yourself what you think about this draft and life in Estonia at all. So all in all, as paradoxical as it may be, the debate on the first draft, at least, arose much more than it would have been at the time of the night stretch, when you know this is not going to be a very well-known debate, but rather take breaks and try to exhaust the government union.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U361	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U362	Thank you. Prime Minister! Your government is obviously in deep financial distress. You're trying to fill the register by raising taxes. Here's my question. Why are you not trying to create wealth, let us say, by making growth and production more efficient? Can't you do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U363	Thank you. I listened to your speech during the discussion of the previous item. If you criticize the government, it's your job. We are not afraid of this criticism. But you went on for a long time and began to criticise the Republic of Estonia. The things you said about the Republic of Estonia cannot be accepted. You spoke very badly about Estonia. As a patriot of Estonia, I was embarrassed and even sad to hear it. Now to your question. Shifting the tax burden from taxation of labour to taxation of consumption contributes to economic growth. The less we tax people's hard-working income, the better competitive conditions we create for Estonia to create jobs here, the more this policy brings foreign and domestic investments into Estonia, the faster the economy can grow. The lowering of labour taxes is, you can say, by textbook wisdom, even a growth-enhancing effect. That is why I consider this very, very important. At the same time, the government has a number of other policies that contribute to economic growth. Effectiveness in state administration will also contribute to this. So it's government policy across the board. But also the three specific drafts that are under discussion today and which you are very keen to block, even at the cost of mistrusting the Prime Minister and government of the Republic of Estonia, have an economic growth effect as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U364	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U365	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! In your speech, you said that every morning of God's day, you will begin a purposeful effort to build trust. However, we can see that by the evening of each God's day, this trust will be less and less on and less on, as popular polls show. The latest ratings show a steady decline in the support of the Reform Party. What's that supposed to mean? Do the foolish people not understand the efforts of the wise government, or have you not done well to gain trust?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U366	Thank you. Our policy looks much further than next morning or next month. If we want to solve the major problems facing Estonia, we must realise that in the short term, some policies may also be unpopular. Then it is up to us to explain to the people why we are taking such steps. I am quite sure that we will also get criticism of this when we implement the administrative reform. We have to be prepared for that, too. But we know that if we do this right, Estonia will win in the longer term. I fully understand that in the short term, people are not satisfied with the increase in excise duties on fuel, even if its effect is less than the current price difference between the fuel sold at two gas stations in Tallinn. Even with this resentment, I understand. But I think it is my duty to explain to the people that this is all happening for greater purposes. This is so that our economy can grow in a sustainable way, we can reduce labour taxes, we can improve living with families with children and we can dramatically increase the support of the third child, we can give more support to pensioners living alone through the support measure that we intend to implement over the next year, as well as helping single parents through the introduction of a living support fund, etc. These are all important steps that need to be taken. They all need a slightly more ambitious policy than the next day or the next ratings.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U367	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U368	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! The Free Party did not sign this motion of distrust, but there is at least one place in this text that I think deserves to be highlighted. In fact, it turned out that the day before the elections, you said live television that there was no plan for tax increases. These tax increases were not permitted by any of the coalition's parties before the elections. The only person who talked about how to cover the increase in the tax-free minimum by raising the income tax rate was the Free Party. But my question is this. How would you feel if we had another good electoral element in the run-up to the elections that would say that we are also talking honestly and clearly about where the money comes from to meet one or another election promise? At present, the winner of the elections, or Reform Party, has not taken up such a requirement and this has resulted in very bad consequences.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U369	Thank you. I admit that I had the hope that the reduction in labour taxes could be compensated to a much greater extent by an increase in excise duties on alcohol and tobacco, but the analysis by the Ministry of Finance after the elections showed that this was not possible. Every time excise duties on alcohol and tobacco are increased, we need to take into account more things than just the desire to improve public health and increase the tax revenue from the budget. We must also take into account things such as the secret market, border trade, etc. I therefore admit that we were forced to look for other sources of cover for the reduction in labour taxes and the rise in child benefits. At the same time, it must be admitted, in Christianity, that there was no word in your programme about the creation of an equity tax on Estonian companies, as you did during the coalition talks, and the restoration of corporate income tax in the traditional form. True, there was an increase in the rate of income tax in your programme, but the tax changes you put on the table during the general debate during the coalition talks were much more than the ones that were put in the programme to ask voters for a mandate. I am, in itself, pleased that the Free Party has not blindly gone along with this initiative of the Centre Party. I believe that you can show that you see politics a little more broadly than this distrust, which is relatively politically initiated. Why am I so critical of this mistrust? This motion of censure was deliberately sought at a time when the Prime Minister would have had to perform very important duties abroad. I interrupted the foreign mission, ready to answer the opposition's questions. At that moment, the Centre Party gave up a motion of distrust and made it completely consciously on the day that the Prime Minister had to be away from Estonia on vacation and with his family. I canceled my vacation, and I can do it too. I am ready to answer the opposition's questions. But I cannot accept the systematic attempt to prevent the government from working on very important external visits or in any other way. I therefore very much hope that the Free Party will not go blindly along with this distrust, but will think independently and see the opportunity to give the government the opportunity to implement its policies and to respond to the major problems facing Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U370	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U371	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I'm sorry, of course, that my partymates and I interrupted your family event! But I actually wanted to ask you about the reaction to Äripäev's article last week when you expressed resentment for the fact that Äripäev blamed you for the lack of vision. That's what you brought out the progress report and talked about how we're better than the neighbors. I thought it was totally inadequate. Vision still means something that comes, not what has been. I would like to know from you how you understand this vision of Estonia. Where are we headed? What do you mean by vision?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U372	Thank you. Thank you for this very pleasant opportunity to say quite several times from this remote control: my vision is that Estonia will become a new Nordic country, which is a well-protected, prosperous and growing country. There is a great deal of work to be done on this. Estonia's security and security are not, of course, protected at the moment; we must make an effort to achieve this. It is the task of the government, it is the task of Parliament, and it is the joint task of all of us. My vision foresees that Estonia will be even better protected than it is now, that more allies will be present, and that Estonia's independent defence capabilities will be greater than today. My vision is also that the government and Parliament cannot be satisfied until we reach the Nordic level in terms of living standards. It needs a constant effort. It is no secret that if we do not increase excise duties and we have very cheap alcohol and tobacco, this is not the way to reach Nordic level. We catch up with the Nordic countries when we encourage the incomes of Estonian people to rise. We can encourage this by, among other things, lowering labour taxes. The same law that Parliament has just adopted will lower taxes on labour and help increase people's income. Of course, there are still many of these aspects, starting with education, and ending with cooperation between companies and R &amp; D institutions. It's a very long list. You will also receive a great deal of answers to this vision from the government union agreement. The third part of my vision is considered by some to be the most critical of it, because it is considered unrealistic. But I am not going to give up the hope that Estonia will become a land with a growing population. The parental benefit was also considered a hopeless and too expensive undertaking when it was introduced by law in 2003. However, we know that this broke Estonia's growth. Now we need to take the next steps to ensure that Estonian families have enough confidence and that in the future there will be at least three children in each family. I understand that this is not happening by itself, and I understand that more than the will of the state is needed here. But as head of government, I intend to do everything in my power to make this vision a reality. So in answer to your question, we have a very clear vision, and from day to day, step by step, we are moving towards making this vision a reality. Estonia will become a new Nordic country if we believe it and make an effort to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U373	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U374	Thank you. Honourable Taavi in Clothes! You have still taken a very arrogant and arrogant attitude towards the opposition. If the opposition criticises the government's actions, you say that we are criticising the Estonian state. But the members of the Riigikogu have every reason to be dissatisfied with you. You can be seen at all kinds of social events, but you haven't found an opportunity for a long time to come to this Chamber for an interview on Wednesday. People aren't happy either, because for some time now, people have given your popularity in the study a 2+ grade, which means you're basically a failed schoolboy. Over 28,000 people have clearly said no to your tax games. What do you think is what has so quickly made you such an unpopular prime minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U375	Thank you. I respect all members of the Riigikogu, regardless of whether it is a coalition or an opposition member, and I think that this is the case for every member of the government. I said to your colleague in reply that when he criticises the government, it is part of his work, and it is welcome in any case. We are not afraid of this criticism. But in this speech, which your colleague, Heimar Lenk, was criticized in my opinion, the Republic of Estonia was tried to show the Republic of Estonia as a much worse place than it really is. I believe that all members of the Riigikogu, including those belonging to the opposition, have reason to be proud of Estonia and to make an effort to make Estonia an even better place to live. There is no need to go along with the fact that the criticism of the government in the rush to say its own country, supposedly the most important country to itself, so badly. As for your claim that I rarely go before you, I cannot agree with that, unfortunately. Every time I've been in Estonia on Wednesday, I've also come to briefing. It is possible that in recent weeks a number of important foreign missions have fallen to Wednesday's day and therefore I have not been able to come here. I am always prepared to answer your written questions in this case. I'm always ready to come and stand before you no matter how long, to answer no matter how many questions. I even asked whether it would be possible to respond to the requests made today by colleagues from the EKRE in the second sitting. I have that readiness. However, this course of events was considered too fast, which is why the answer will come when you come together the next time. But if some Riigikogu commission comes together in the summer and wishes the Prime Minister to explain, then I will be there for you. I think that's the only way to think about it. The only reason for all ministers not to come to the Riigikogu or to the Riigikogu commission is on an external mission, no other reason would consider calling the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U376	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U377	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I am truly sorry that you do not understand the real reasons for a motion of mistrust and that you are acting very arrogantly. In the ETV Prime Minister's debate, you promised not to raise taxes. Today, however, you said that raising taxes is the right way to go. The Reform Party could already be called the Tax Rise Party, I think that would be the right name. Why are you a Prime Minister unable to keep his word and breaking the promises made to the Estonian people?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U378	Thank you. I do not agree with your reproach for raising taxes. We shift the tax burden from labour to consumption taxation. As a whole, the tax burden remains essentially the same, it does not decrease significantly, but it does not increase. What is right to tax is a very fundamental issue. Looking at economic growth, it is most harmful to tax corporate income. The next step will be to tax people's labour income, which is hampering economic growth. So the less corporate income and people's earnings are taxed, the better for the economy. If we look from an individual perspective, I would argue that a considerable proportion of these tax changes are those that increase people's incomes. The reduction in labour taxes affects everyone. If a person's work income is credited every month with less tax being deducted, it is a man's victory on that day of pay. In addition, he has the knowledge that the competitiveness of the Estonian state compared to other countries has improved in a large picture. The creation of more cost-effective, more income-generating jobs in Estonia is a separate goal for me. We need to understand that we are in the most intense competition in terms of labour taxes, because there are more and more companies looking at where it is best to create jobs, whether in Estonia, Finland, Latvia or somewhere further. If Estonia does not want to compete by keeping our people's wages as low as possible, it is not what we want, then I think it would be more reasonable for us to compete by having a more favourable tax environment than others. Shifting the tax burden from labour to consumption not only contributes to economic growth, but also leaves more money to a large number of people. We understand that even if tobacco and alcohol create a very large part of the money that allows us to reduce labour taxes, but their consumption is strictly voluntary. I will be honest with you that I would not object if excise duties on tobacco and alcohol were increased even more quickly. Our Finnish colleagues, for example, have gone a much more radical way to tax tobacco. But I also have so many realists in me that I will listen to the assessments of the Ministry of Finance and the tax administration, and if they say that the risk of increased excise duty on the secret market and border trade would exponentially increase, I agree with that. All right, that's expert judgment, and we're counting on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U379	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U380	Dear Speaker! Mr Prime Minister! I want to assure you, first of all, that the Conservative People's Party is certainly not going blindly with this motion of distrust. We have very good reasons why we mistrust you. We are not motivated by blind anger or wickedness; we are motivated by love for our people and for the earth. It is because of this love that we do everything we can to prevent this government from exercising its policy. But now I come to a specific question. You have repeatedly stressed that you want to tax consumption. Has it not occurred to you that consumption is the main engine that is currently dragging Estonia's economic growth? Export is what it is, and there's nothing else right. Investments are also negative, as they are, in recent years. If you start taxing consumption and thereby destroying Estonia's economic growth, who is responsible? I have repeatedly asked your colleague, the Minister of Finance, if he intends to resign if these tax plans do not materialise or if the Estonian economy is going down because of your current activities. Are you going to resign if this all goes wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U381	Thank you. Basically, you are right that a relatively large part of the current economic growth is based on domestic consumption. But it is also important to know that domestic consumption is not a very sustainable source of growth, especially in a small country. A more sustainable source of growth is if we can increase trade if we can create the prerequisites for Estonia to continue to succeed as an exporting country. When you think about the types of domestic consumption we are slightly limiting, including alcohol and tobacco consumption, it must be frankly said that alcohol and tobacco consumption are certainly not the source of sustainable economic growth in Estonia. On the contrary, when too much alcohol and tobacco is consumed, it makes people much sicker and lowers the age at which a person will be able to work if life as a whole is reduced. Rather, it has a significant negative impact on economic growth. However, if you look at the drafts that you have before you today as a whole, you can say that they still have a considerable internal consumption-enhancing effect. This money, which is not collected in the form of taxes on people's income, is very much likely to go into internal consumption. This money, which also reaches people in the form of child benefits, is very likely to go into internal consumption. Pretty sure all the money we've set aside is going into internal consumption because of the rise in the limit of living. There has been a disgraceful little talk about this today, but the government's policy in the context of these drafts is also to increase the level of subsistence. This means that the people most in need of support from the state can be more confident of this in the future. As of next year, the subsistence limit is almost one and a half times higher than it was before. This is the fastest rise in the subsistence limit of the last ten years. I'm pretty sure that all the money that gets people more out of it goes into internal consumption.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U382	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U383	Thank you. Good Prime Minister, please don't be offended! Understand that the meeting of the leaders of Latin America and the Caribbean is less important than dealing with the problems of their own people. But my question is about security. You, me and all of us like to talk a lot about security, NATO and allied relations. Let's not stop on this today, it's okay. Let's talk about self-defense. Security experts have pointed out that the public protection system and communication systems are not developed, coastal defence and anti-aircraft capabilities are inadequate. It's been talked about for many years. It is under your leadership that uncertainty in the area of security has increased. This opinion has been expressed by both President Ilves and NATO General. Why have you not dealt with these four problems and why are there still no solutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U384	Thank you. First of all, I cannot agree with you in any way if you underestimate the fact that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia will meet his colleagues at the international summit. I had not only bilateral meetings with the leaders of the Latin American countries planned there. On the first day, I had very many meetings with my European colleagues, where I explained Estonia's positions as to why we do not support refugee quotas. I got to talk to a lot of people, but on Thursday I'd like to talk to a lot more. The fact that Estonia's position in Europe gets paid does not come naturally. At the moment, the European Commission has made a proposal that is clearly not suitable for Estonia. I believe that all Estonian people expect that if there is a position on the table that is not suitable for Estonia, then the Prime Minister of Estonia and the Estonian Minister of the Interior and all Estonian politicians will do their utmost to convince their colleagues why this position needs to change. That's what I was gonna do. I must say that, should it happen now that Estonia's position does not prevail, the Centre Party will have co-responsibility, because the Centre Party announced in a clear way that they would expect the Prime Minister to respond to a motion of distrust on Thursday. Later, for some reason, you gave it up. Now for security. I say that during this period, when I have been Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia, Estonia's security has certainly improved and it will improve further. Estonia has not always been a country where the allies have been permanently present. Less than a year ago, we achieved that the air of Estonia began to be guarded by aircraft from NATO's Allied Forces. This did not come of itself; it was the determined work of the government, the Defence Forces and very many Estonian diplomats. We have now achieved that this is not only a temporary rotation but a permanent presence. This is a very big victory from the point of view of Estonia's security. We have also achieved this in the last year; this has not always been the case, that the forces of the allies are present in Estonia as an element of the army. The government currently in office has already decided within this few two months that we are seeking to increase the presence of the allies as a battalion-sized unit instead of a company. We have already been able to decide in the country's budgetary strategy, on which we can use today's decisions to cover, that we are investing more than EUR 40 million in order for the Allied units, also the battalion that we want to see here, to have where to be. We have allocated money to invest in barracks and create opportunities for pre-location of allies' equipment. We have allocated money to provide permanent space for the NATO headquarters that is open here. All this is quite a serious achievement on the road to increasing Estonia's security. But we're definitely not there yet. There are very many steps that we still want to take. In addition, it is quite important that not only promises are foreseen in the strategy for the next four years, but also a real financial cover so that Estonia can contribute more than 2% to national defence. To this end, we have the money due to the adopted national budget strategy. It is not just a number on paper, but it will help us to buy infantry fighting machines for Estonia. Basically, this new level is in the capacity of the first infantry brigade, which allows us to acquire anti-tank missiles Javelin, which is a very long step forward compared to the anti-tank missiles currently in use. We will then be able to participate with our allies in a wide range of missions, exercises, etc. I have had a number of meetings with politicians and generals from different allied countries during this year and a few months, and how to strengthen Estonia's defence capabilities has also been an issue. Believe me, it doesn't come of itself, there's a lot of work to be done for. Such summits, which you laughed at the beginning, are sometimes in a very good format for this. I also spoke at this summit with the President of a country who has had a completely different view from ours in public speaking about what happened in Ukraine. I told him why we see things differently. I don't know if he's changing his opinion because of this, I can't say it, but at least I had the opportunity to explain Estonia's views to him. It's a big deal. Under no circumstances underestimate the fact that a small country has a good relationship with its allies.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U385	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U386	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister! Your party has been in power for 16 years. All this time we have heard of the demagogy that major challenges are ahead, Estonia wins in the long term, etc. All of this is because 130000 Estonians are looking for work and bread abroad, one in five children is going to sleep hungry, milk and meat producers are in such a difficult situation as they may never have been since they regained independence, one in eight euros in our national budget is only there thanks to European aid, transit and tourism are drying up. When will we be blessed, when will we be among the five richest European countries? Name the year, please! Your party has promised to get there.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U387	Thank you. When comparing Estonia's development over the last 25 years with any other country freed from Soviet occupation, it turns out that according to all objective criteria Estonia has been the most successful of all. I am genuinely proud of that. Because when Estonia's independence was restored, I was just a schoolboy and I can't feel that I had a big role in it. But all my conscious life, I have tried to make sure that Estonia is doing well in the future. When I communicate with my friends or colleagues abroad, I always speak only well of Estonia. There's a reason for that. However, the fact that we have had 25 years better than any other of our destiny mates does not mean that we should not exert ourselves in the future. Of course we do. That is why I say that Estonia's goal must be to become a new Nordic country. Estonia must not be satisfied with its economy until our standard of living has reached the level of the Nordic countries. No matter how long it takes, I'm going to make an effort. I know that reducing labour taxes, reducing administrative burdens, investing in education, better linking research and development and business are things that will help Estonia to grow faster. We are not satisfied with the growth that we currently have, but if we look at the facts, our economy is growing faster than in many other parts of Europe. It's not quite a coincidence, it's something you have to work for. Keeping our state budget balanced also gives us pretty good prospects for our economy to grow in the future. So we will continue our efforts to ensure that Estonia's conditions for economic growth are better than in other countries. That is why I find it very inappropriate to ridicule the smaller steps we are taking to reduce the tax burden on labour. Every step counts.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U388	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U389	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I'll ask him as a man to a man. How can I trust a man and be sure he's free in his decisions when he owes the bank 319000 euros, which is a sci-fi sum? That's my business! Tell me, please, how can I trust such a system? Or do you think you'll live forever?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U390	Thank you. I'm pretty sure that you can trust me regardless of the fact that I've bought a home for my family for the money I've earned and used a loan taken from the bank, and even though I've taken some of their loans in my name to help my loved ones. I assure you that these loan payments have been manageable to me and will probably be in the future. The fact that not all people are able to inherit or return property is a reality. There are plenty of families in Estonia who have taken loans to buy a home. I think that among your close fellow fighters in your own party there are many people who have borrowed from the bank as well as from elsewhere. If they have declared it correctly, I see no problem with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U391	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U392	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! Every time the government that you run wants to find money, and it happens almost every year, it comes up with the same programme to raise excise duties and state fees. There was already talk of 80 million euros, which is, say, eight and a half billion Estonian kroons, that it is not a lot of money. But, Prime Minister, is the government just to supplement the state budget by raising excise duties, which is peeling Estonians hard? I mean, I don't think the money that comes from Brussels is correct to read.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U393	Thank you. I do believe that, regardless of which political parties belong to the government in the next 10 or 20 years, it is quite certain that excise duties on both alcohol and tobacco will increase every year. So far, there has been a fairly strong consensus among political parties that neither alcohol nor tobacco should become relatively cheaper in the shop, but that their price should increase at the same rate as people's incomes or a little faster in order to reduce the pressure on over-consumption. In recent years, however, there have been examples that, at the end of the year, at the time of budgeting, it has been decided which excise duty changes should be made and how many percent would be the most appropriate. For me, it seems more appropriate to say four years in advance that tobacco or alcohol excise duty will increase by 8%, 10% or 15% per year for the next four years, and there is a clear picture. I also believe that you agree with me that if we want to reduce the tax burden on labour in order to increase people's incomes, both tobacco and alcohol excise duties are the most painful places to compensate for this. Such decisions would probably be made by governments formed on the basis of any other combination. At least by looking at current practice and very different combinations, which have been the basis for the formation of a government over the last ten years, this can be confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U394	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U395	Thank you. Everyone who takes office as Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia must quite certainly be prepared for everything that this profession entails. But that does not mean that I should approve when the Prime Minister is invited from an international meeting to Estonia, but then it is said that no, in fact, they did not want to express distrust on that day, but will never do so in the future. Of course, I must come to Estonia for such an invitation. But I do not feel that I, as a representative of a person or institution, should fully approve of knowingly tricking. I was troubled that I would have been able to work on Thursday to ensure that the voice of Estonia among European colleagues would be heard better. I could have explained our arguments as to why the compulsory refugee quotas proposed by the European Commission do not suit us and why we do not think they are fair. The summits and the Council are incredibly grateful places to have a conversation in the hallway. It is very important for one small country that, as Prime Minister, I can talk to any European colleague about 15 times a year, we know each other, we know each other, we communicate freely with each other and we call each other's mobile phones. In a different way, it would be very difficult to convince the countries that are tens of times bigger than us about why our position is right. Good personal experience, in the best sense of corridor conversations, is a very important value. That is why I am really sad that I was forced to abandon quite important corridor conversations and bilateral meetings on Thursday. With regard to the new ideas in the government union agreement, of course we are open to them. I wouldn't mind if the Free Party also made proposals that could be implemented in the next four years. We worked very hard to write down the four common answers to the five or six most important questions facing the Estonian state at the beginning of the three political parties. But that doesn't mean there can't be any new ideas in four years. After all, even the same issue of refugees has actually emerged in the current context since the government agreement was signed. We can be quite sure that, over the next four years, life will spread before us the problems that the Government Union, and also Parliament, must be prepared to propose solutions to. Of course, we are also prepared to do the things that need to be done, but which, for one reason or another, have not received a specific letter of agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U396	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U397	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister! You called yourself an Estonian patriot here at the beginning. I do not remember any particularly patriotic activities from the 1990s until today, but if you had found the means and doubled Estonia's reserve army, this would have been a patriotic activity, not an increase in the presence of the allies. Given your tax and refugee policy, I ask what the Estonian people have done to you. Or do you think it's patriotism?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U398	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! First of all, I suggest you make it clear to yourself that the Prime Minister is an institution. I think it would be a little easier for you to understand that the Prime Minister's office is accompanied by certain odds that must be accepted. But here's the question. Your current coalition partner has indicated that after Midsummer, a coalition agreement will be opened. On which points will the negotiations be opened and will they be conducted more openly than the latter?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U399	Prime Minister, thank you for your polite apology for your attack earlier. How, then, will you realize this confidence update of Lennart Meri every morning you mentioned? In such a way that the signatures of 28,000 people against bill 41 don't deserve considerable trust, but for example 2 80,000 people signed? Or isn't it? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U400	Jaanus Karilaid, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U401	Mr President, what should I do? I asked a specific question. I asked you not to talk about NATO and allies, but about independent defence capabilities. My question had four components. But the Prime Minister still answered the question. What can I do?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U402	The board has no competence to make any such recommendations to the vigilante. Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U403	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Once again, I apologize for not taking your calendar plan into account when we handed over our motion of distrust. My question is about your vision, which you have been very committed to. The emigration balance of our country is negative, about 6,000 Estonian people choose another country as permanent residence each year. Aren't you afraid in a few years you won't have anyone to explain your unpopular decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U404	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Listening to you gives the impression that you have finally made the promise of your predecessor, Andrus Ansip, and have brought Estonia among the five richest countries in Europe. Unfortunately, this is not yet the case today. People leave Estonia because wages are small and taxes are high. Do you think that the policy of the Reform Party, which punishes those who remain here and squeezes the tax money that has been lost from the leavers, is sustainable?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U405	Thank you. It is certainly a sustainable policy to continue to lower labour taxes and to continue with policies that contribute to economic growth. I understand your temptation to iron my predecessor's vision. We can say today that it may take more than 15 years to implement this. Maybe in order to reach Nordic level, Estonia does not have to be the fifth in Europe, but it does not change the core of this vision. Pesting towards greater prosperity in Estonia and greater income for every person living in Estonia is, in my opinion, the only right thing. We must not be satisfied until our people's salaries and pensions are at Nordic level, no matter how it is measured statistically, and that means the 5th, 7th or 9th place in Europe at the moment, that is not so important. We believe that our young people will get as good an education as they get in the Nordic countries, we believe that our people are as industrious and intelligent as people in any Nordic country, and we believe that as a society we are ready to learn from the mistakes that the Nordic countries have made in history in order to develop even faster. Of course, we understand that the Nordic countries are a very successful region, it is one of the most successful regions in the world, and we realise that competition is tense. We must also be prepared to make decisions that are not directly derived from textbook wisdom, but are much more complex. We must be innovative at every step of the way. But it would be foolish to say that we do not have to pursue this vision. In 1939, before the Soviet occupation, our forefathers were wise enough, and the standard of living in Estonia was very similar to that of Finland and Sweden. Mathematically, we overcame Finland in terms of GDP per capita. Why do we think our generation or our children's generation is worse? Let's try to get closer to them, not to iron out whether some nuance of a particular vision needs to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U406	Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U407	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! It was quite inappropriate for you to make a statement that you wanted to take a holiday, but Parliament prevented you. I would remind you that in the event of our mistrust, there is a rather long vacation ahead of you. It was also quite demagogic to claim that you are willing to come to Parliament, as well as to committees and political groups, to discuss all kinds of issues. I would remind you that the Central Party Group invited you two weeks ago to discuss these same taxes. At the time, you were arrogance and did not come to our group. It is not only the opposition that has expressed distrust for you. In the last two months, your personal rating as Prime Minister has given you a 2nd grade. At the same time, we will now hear your description of the excellent work you and your government are doing. I'm afraid the crowd doesn't understand. There's something wrong with this picture. I'm asking you what you think is wrong in this picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U408	Thank you. As I understand it, the more evening progresses, the more general philosophy questions get. I will answer that part of your question, where you reproached me, as if it were inappropriate for my comment that you planned to publish mistrust during my vacation. Of course I interrupted my vacation. Of course, I said to my daughter, "I'm sorry, even though I promised you that after a very, very long time, we could go somewhere together with the whole family. ' Of course I did, because it is my duty. But that didn't make it easy for me to explain all this to my daughter. It bothered me that I thought you acted consciously by making a motion of mistrust, precisely during my vacation. I'm not sure if it was very generous of you or whether you wanted to use it simply for personal care. Whatever your motive, it's my duty to accept it. I stand before you, and I apologize to my daughter for not being able to be with her.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U409	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U410	Thank you, good speaker! Good Prime Minister! I had a real tear in my eye for the last time I said that. As a six-time father, of course, I understand your heartache very well if you cannot be with your family. But I have a more specific question. This concerns the economy, more specifically your experience in the economy and specifically in the area of entrepreneurship. You speak very confidently about creating jobs for businesses, about how labour taxes are being reduced. Well, frankly, they're not being humiliated. But I wonder how extensive and diverse your own entrepreneurial experience is. Do you know what the company's problems are when starting a business when investments need to be made? Do you know what bureaucratic problems an entrepreneur has due to the Accounting Act? Have you created jobs somewhere and know how expensive it is? In short, explain your business experience.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U411	Thank you. I have completed higher economic education at the University of Tartu and have completed both in the United States and Germany. I have seen the life of a micro-entrepreneur very close, because in my neighbourhood, very many start-ups have started from scratch. I have been helping to make financial statements and annual reports for about 16 years now. I know how to declare income and turnover on the 20th on the 10th. I also know that the annex to the VAT return, KMD INF, is quite uncomfortable at the beginning for a micro enterprise, but it actually understands that it disciplines to pay and declare taxes more correctly, and it understands that thanks to this one declaration that you wanted to be abolished, 80 million euros more is coming to the Estonian state budget this year. I remember very well the very criticism that was made of this supplement to the VAT return, but I have to say that EUR 80 million a year and the fairer tax environment is, I believe, worth it, even if today the administrative burden on the smallest companies is slightly higher. I dare say that I know quite precisely the Estonian tax laws, having worked for about four years as a member of the Monetary Commission and half as the head of the Commission. I think we can debate economic issues quite successfully.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U412	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U413	I, in turn, thank you for your beautiful thanks. Thank you for saying over the imaginary front line less often than you could at any other time. I really appreciate you noticing that! But it is possible to gain trust every day in hard work and honestly explain to people that, regardless of who is a head of government or a particular minister, he does not have the luxury of talking only about positive things. We have to be honest and we have said that if we want to increase people's incomes by reducing labour taxes, if we want child benefits to rise, if we want to have enough money to guarantee Estonia's security, then we need to compensate for all this. We also need to explain why we believe that it is precisely these tax changes that are the fairest and most honest. We understand perfectly that in the near future, some of these changes may also receive criticism. That must be accepted. But we also realize that when people see farther ahead, they sense that there is a longer interest. This longer interest is that jobs with higher wages are created in Estonia. It doesn't happen by itself. In tax competition, we do not stand by ourselves; we have to work all the time to achieve this. It took ten years to reduce income tax from 26% to 20%. This work had to be done by five governments in a row. But believe me, it's been a long step forward. This course needs to be continued. I am sometimes dissatisfied, too, because social tax could be reduced by far more than 1%. But it doesn't justify being ridiculed and saying that if the fall of 1% is small, then maybe it would raise 4%. This would take Estonia several, several good years ago, and there is no way to agree with it. It is not the case with this trust that we must work hard and be prepared to make more difficult decisions at times. We can't afford the luxury of the government talking only about beautiful things. I think that the people of Estonia would not really want a government that only talks about beautiful things and ignores the fact that sometimes difficult decisions have to be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U414	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U415	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You have consistently tried to link the bill on tax changes with the opposition with the introduction of the bill on tax changes to Parliament and its attachment to a vote of confidence. The truth is, if you had brought these laws here as separate drafts, you would not have received the votes of the members of the coalition behind them. How long do you think you can keep a coalition together with such godfathering methods?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U416	Thank you. I am a fan of the literary talent of Mario Puzo, but there is no reason to draw a parallel between his works and Estonian politics, I hope. As far as these drafts are concerned and their submission, we have considered very carefully whether to produce a good number of drafts, to submit all the drafts as a whole, or to submit them as finally presented. What were these main arguments? Firstly, it is not possible to allow the situation to arise, as one member of the opposition said in the debate on the previous point, that they would be happy to support one concrete step that increases costs, but that they do not support the changes that the money provides for it. You will understand very well that we, being in the role of government responsibility, must be quite certain that if we put on the table a bill that generates expenditure on the state budget, or because of which people will have more money and less money in the tax budget, then we must have confidence that the state budget will not go up. That is why it was decided to place the various tax changes, both those which would lower the tax burden and those that would increase excise duty, in the same draft. We did not consciously put together all the drafts, because when it was discussed with the Riigikogu Board, the Bureau assessed that these drafts could be dealt with in several different committees. It is not quite reasonable to do such a cluster as it was in its day, at a time of economic crisis, when the drafts relating to very different areas of life, which were actually part of the responsibility of the various committees of the Riigikogu, were all put together. That's why we gave up this internship. We consulted a number of legal experts who said that if a revenue and expenditure side were to be included in a single draft, and if this draft was to fall within the competence of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, it would be acceptable to put together such different drafts. However, it is a little harder to understand how all of this is related to your group's proposal to change the engine displacement of a moped. If this amendment had been voted into the draft on a few dark nights, it would certainly have turned this draft into a cluster that would not be in line with good legislative practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U417	Thank you. Allow me to spend some of the time to answer you in order to answer Mr Kariladi's question on his own defence. In fact, what I was talking about is the purchase of battle vehicles, as well as what I was talking about purchasing anti-tank missiles, the independent defence capabilities of Estonia. Also, if we build the central polygon much larger, Estonia will improve its independent defence capability. The points of the government union programme, which provide a significantly better guarantee of income and conscripts during reserve gatherings, are all linked to an independent defence capacity. I believe that if you read the security part of the government union agreement, you will see that there is a very large contribution to increasing Estonia's independent defence capability. There has been no coalition agreement in Estonia so far where national defence is so seriously prioritised. I am very pleased that this priority has been addressed so thoroughly. Now I will answer Mikhail Korb's question about emigration. I am pleased to say that the emigration trend has changed considerably in recent years. Many fewer people move away from Estonia and many more people either come back or find a permanent place to live in Estonia. The causes of emigration have also changed. While in 2010, when a very thorough survey was carried out on the causes of migration, most people replied that they were leaving Estonia because there were no viable jobs here, in 2013, when the next survey was carried out, the number of people emigrating had decreased, and in the second place the reason that there were no jobs in Estonia was increasingly highlighted. Rather, people moved to other countries to study or pursue a career. These reasons are perfectly understandable and, in my opinion, acceptable. But in order to prevent economic emigration, the best way is to pursue a policy that increases people's income. The reduction in labour taxes is certainly part of this. Believe me, the fastest way to encourage emigration is by applying progressive income tax to doctors and engineers, for example, and making them pay a higher level of tax so that they have less money in their hands. The difference with wages paid in other countries would then increase further. That's not what we want. So I would argue that the fiscal policy decisions that make labour taxes are also having a negative impact on emigration.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U418	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U419	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! Your predecessor, Andrus Ansip, once taught me that only fools think that fiscal policy steps are to fill the treasury. He explained that fiscal taxes are the wheel with which a wise man leads the country and achieves that bad tendencies are suppressed and positives are given the impulse to go, develop. It has happened in Tartu that, by consensus between the various parties, conference tourism has been given one priority, which has a number of positive consequences for the promotion of scientific life, publishing activities, etc. We have done well, but competition is extremely strong and our advantages to others are diminishing. For example, Danish conference tourism accommodation services led to 0% VAT and Europeans are able to count money. Your partymates from accommodation companies in Tartu ask why they want to kill a chicken that lays eggs and we hoped for a great deal of money.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U420	Thank you. I'm not quite sure if I've heard the quote attributed to Andrus Ansip, but I think he knows so much to say that the word'stupid' was definitely not used. At least I haven't noticed him using that word too often in the 15 or, in fact, 17 years since I've known him. But I guess that wasn't the point of the question. In this respect, I generally agree that the role of tax policy and fiscal policy is also to break some trends and shape others. It is no secret that all excise duties have been made internationally in order to limit the consumption of certain goods for a specific reason, be it health or the environment. We have never made a secret of the fact that excise duties on tobacco and alcohol, for example, have a much more important effect than just the amount of money coming into the budget. This impact will help to reduce consumption, especially over-consumption, which is the most price sensitive by those who practice it. So, of course, it has other effects. Now from Tartu and conference tourism. If you look at the development of the last five or six years, it has to be said that tourism has done very well in Tartu, just as it has done in Estonia. The number of accommodations in Tartu has increased from 130000 to 188000. I have discussed with tourism operators in Tartu as well as other cities that it is far more important than keeping the hotel room price one euro lower than it might otherwise have been, that there are events for which to come to Tartu, for example. In my opinion, what AS Tallinn Airport is currently doing at Tartu Airport is very positive. They have a clear development plan on how to fly directly from Tartu to Helsinki and to several other places via Helsinki. I am absolutely sure that this will provide an opportunity to attract Finnish tourists to Tartu if Tartu itself also makes advertising. In order for a tourist to have a reason to come to Tartu, Pärnu, Saaremaa and many other beautiful places in Estonia, which certainly deserve to be looked at, we have reason to make an effort. I am absolutely sure that the opening of ERM will bring several times more tourists to Tartu than any VAT change can prevent it. It is also up to us to play the opening of the ERM at international level so that not only the Tallinnans and the primordial ones come to the ERM. We want Latvians to come, who are actually close to Tartu, so that Finns come, because there is hope that Helsinki will be able to fly a little more permanently in the future than in Tartu so far, and citizens of other countries who do not have to stay in Tallinn but can also see Tartu as their destination. It is not quite a coincidence that we have agreed in the government more than 60 million euros on measures that, on the one hand, will help to introduce Estonia as a destination in foreign markets, including specific cities, and, on the other, will help to build tourist attractions, for example, to be agreed to come to Tartu. I think that if you ask a friend or colleague of yours, for example, from Tampere or Uppsala, which could be the reason why you come to Tartu, whether there is something going on in Tartu, there is an awesome and unique museum or cultural event, or that the hotel room price is one or two euros cheaper, then you know what your colleagues or friends from Tampere and Uppsala tell you. Of course, they come here when there's a reason to come.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U421	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U422	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! In my opinion, Estonia's biggest problem is non-existent growth and loss of competitiveness. Raising excise duties is certainly not the solution here. I'll see how this government behaves. In competitiveness we have lost, Lithuania has already missed us. Growth in the first quarter was barely 1%. Let us see what steps the government will take to boost economic growth. First, the number of tourists. In an annual comparison, tourists have fallen by about 10% and the government plans to revive the tourism economy with a 5% increase in VAT! Or we could take agriculture. If Latvia has a specially marked excise duty of 0% on fuel, then we will increase the excise duty on the fuel used by the farmer from 110% to 146%. We know the situation in agriculture today. How can this be done to boost business and improve the competitiveness of farmers? Fuel excise tax is EUR 330 in Lithuania and EUR 332 in Latvia, but we will have an increase of EUR 448 next year. Where's the competitiveness here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U423	Thank you. I must say that the information you have provided is not true at all. Let us see, for example, April. The number of tourists has been low, but the number of guests has increased; 320 were more than in April last year. If we take a slightly longer view and compare it with April 2013, the increase has been 17,000. Let's take a longer view, five or six years. The number of tourists in Estonia has almost one-and-a-half-fold since then. You and I share the task of finding the reasons why more people could come to Estonia. What are these bottlenecks? What is it they want to come here for, but what isn't here for? In the second half of last summer, the opening of Lottemaa certainly gave a positive boost to tourism in Pärnumaa. There is now a significant interest in coming here for Latvian tourists who have hardly stayed in Pärnu for the night. Pärnu is relatively close to the Latvian border, also relatively close to Riga, yet only a very modest part of Latvian tourists have stayed in Pärnu. Now that Lottemaa is available, if there is a reason to come with the whole family, I think there is a reason to stay much longer in Pärnu. But there are still ways. In your hometown of Põlva, both domestic and foreign tourists also have a reason to come. You have to explain to people what is unique in Põlvamaa, you have to talk about cultural events, and you have to make sure that cultural events take place there. Believe me, people will come. The second part of your question concerned excise duties on fuel and competitiveness. The fact is that Estonia is the cheapest country in Europe with petrol. If we take into account excise duty, VAT and final prices, petrol 95E is the cheapest in Estonia. I'm not quite sure it has to be that way. Of course, we must make sure that we do not increase excise duties on fuel too quickly compared to other countries. This is also the reason why the government decided to reduce the increase in excise duties on fuel and we will not plan an increase in excise duties on fuel by 2019. But let's play a thought game for a moment that in the next four years, no other country will increase its excise duties on fuel, the probability of which, you can even understand, is zero, even then Estonia will remain among the countries with the lowest fuel prices in the European Union. I can give you a table later showing the impact of both excise duty and VAT in different countries. What is very important is that if in most countries the rate of excise duty may not be much higher than that of Estonia, the rate of VAT tends to be higher, the total impact of taxes on fuel prices is higher than in Estonia and therefore the final price of fuel is significantly higher. It could also be taken into account that, unlike many other countries, there is no car tax in Estonia. This has been the choice of governments to date. Of course, car tax is an alternative to excise duties on fuel, but the tax burden on our people as a whole, because we do not have a car tax, is much lower when we use a car than in Latvia, for example, where the car tax is imposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U424	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U425	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister! Your reply to Mr Simson showed that you did find a reason for not voting on the amendments. However, as a young head of government, I must say that you are beautifully condescending and attacking against your older colleagues and not just against your older colleagues. I've been an entrepreneur for a few decades. There have been good times and bad times, but I have not experienced a situation like the winds of the current legislative changes. Your party partners also deplore the current tax changes, which hinder the development and competitiveness of tourism companies, for example. Did you meet them, discuss them, and analyze them to find a better solution? If so, why are they still so critical today?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U426	Thank you. First of all, if you have the impression that I have been somehow offensive against some honourable Members, I sincerely apologise. That has certainly not been my goal. As has been said, I respect all Members of Parliament with great respect, which does not mean that I cannot become quite passionate about defending my views and sometimes defending Estonia's reputation. Now for the amendments. I believe that you agree with me in your heart that all these 201 amendments were not intended to have a substantive debate on them. If there had been a desired debate on the substance, only substantive proposals would have been made. Perhaps the proposals to increase the volume of the moped engine from 48 cubic centimetres to 50 cubic centimetres, the length of a recreational craft from 7.5 metres to 8 metres, or the take-off mass of a small aircraft from 1550 kilograms to 1600 kilograms would have been omitted. These were all nice proposals, and I think they can also be discussed in parliamentary committees. But there is probably a general understanding here that these proposals do not really concern these drafts, they make them unacceptably complex clusters, and they do not contribute in any way to the holding of important tax debates facing Estonia. So there is nothing to be done, unfortunately it cannot be said that all these amendments have actually been included in the drafts. But at the same time, we can say that, in these hours, since 11 o'clock this morning, we have actually been able to hold a much more substantive debate. You have been able to ask much more and respond much more to the members of the government union than would have been possible during these long and health-debilitating nights. That is why I think that this is perhaps not such a bad solution, because the debate can undoubtedly be held more. We in the government also decided that all the changes that Parliament has negotiated and which have been approved by Parliament's Committee on Monetary Affairs, or also by the Committee on Social Affairs, will remain in force. For our part, there is no intervention in this because Parliament has already dealt with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U427	Lauri Laasi.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U428	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I think that the biggest problem for small and medium-sized enterprises is not that excise duties and taxes are rising, but that it is happening unexpectedly and they do not know what the government would expect tomorrow. I signed a motion of mistrust, too. The reason was that the government is not very friendly with farmers right now, at least that's what it seems to me. If you introduce me to a real plan to save Estonian agriculture, including dairy, I will not vote in favour of expressing mistrust.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U429	Thank you. It is precisely in order to ensure that tax changes do not come unexpectedly, that we have tried to act. Firstly, we ourselves committed ourselves, in cooperation with businesses, that tax changes must be known at least six months in advance. This will help to increase confidence in businesses. Secondly, the fact that excise increases are known for a long time and can be taken into account also helps to increase long-term security. It is clear that no alcohol producer, be it a brewer or a distillery, applauds the fact that even one cent has to pay more excise duty on a bottle. It is perfectly understandable that they stand up for the interests of their sector. But they also have the assurance that for the next four years the policy is exactly that, and they know how to plan for at least four years. The question of rescuing the dairy sector certainly needs a much longer answer than this format allows. But we can't say we didn't deal with it, we dealt with it during the previous government. Your current colleague in the Riigikogu, then Minister for Enterprise and Foreign Trade, has worked hard to open up new markets. It doesn't come by itself. This was a very important step. Several dairy companies, several processors, also announced publicly that this was a grateful and important step forward. The government has also discussed, at length and in depth, how the European Union's support for new periods can be used in such a way as to help to solve these problems as precisely as possible. We know that the largest resource we have to distribute in agriculture is more than EUR 1 billion of European money. We need to use this very wisely. We have already discussed this with the previous Minister for Agriculture, who is also a colleague of yours in Parliament today. The current Minister for Rural Affairs is also making an effort to do so. I am absolutely sure that both the Minister for Rural Affairs and other members of the government will be prepared to discuss jointly what should still be done to do this, whether new markets should be opened or, for example, to distribute euro payments so that the producers' greatest concerns can be resolved. The power to dictate prices in a market economy does not exist for the government. This is not the case for the Estonian Government, the Finnish Government or the Latvian Government. The price is on the market and it is beyond our control. However, in the future we will have the opportunity to learn from these positive examples. If the sector has any suggestions as to what other markets could be in which to open doors, I believe that every minister, be it the Minister for Enterprise, the Minister for Rural Affairs or the Prime Minister, has reason to listen attentively to these wishes of entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U430	George Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U431	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! I'm sure you've met quite a lot of tourist operators lately. I've done it, too. I'm asking you about raising VAT on accommodations. Come on, help me out here. When I have spoken to companies, it has been their opinion that raising the VAT rate means directly higher taxation on exports. How would you explain this to the operators in this area if you were asked to do so? The VAT rate for accommodation establishments is rising. Will this make Estonia's export capacity worse?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U432	Thank you. Clearly, the tourism sector is critical of this change. The alcohol sector is critical, the representatives of tobacco producers are critical. This is all understandable because they represent the interests of their sector. At the same time, we need to be sufficiently statesmanly to say if the interests of the country as a whole and the interests of a particular sector sometimes differ. I have often heard many of them say in my conversations with tourist entrepreneurs that it is even more important than keeping the price as low as possible by means of tax credit that a tourist has more reason to come to Estonia than Estonia is known as a destination. Tens and tens of millions of euros of European Union money goes to showcase Estonia as a destination, twenty million euros goes directly to investments in tourism, severalty million euros goes to local governments and this money can also be considered to be related to tourism, and six million euros we decided to allocate in addition to the development of rural tourism during the last discussion of the government's budget strategy. In fact, we are much more interested in where this money goes, whether entrepreneurs agree and whether this money actually helps to meet the objectives. We all understand that it is much more sustainable if we can motivate people to come to Estonia for some good reason, not because of cheap prices. In our tourism sector, wages have increased over the last five to six years, how much exactly, this can be said by the sector's representatives themselves, but according to different estimates, this increase has been some tens of percent. We know that this fewty per cent represents a very large proportion of the cost of production, if you could say so, because in tourism, the largest part of the cost of production is precisely labour costs. If we can tax the workforce at a slightly lower tax rate, it is already a step forward. At the same time, we believe that wages could grow in Estonia in the future. Consequently, it is only in terms of price that it is short-sighted to build its own competitiveness, regardless of the specific tax rate. We must work together to ensure that there is more reason to come to Estonia. By these reasons, I mean, for example, institutions, whether ERM, Lottemaa, Audruring, the renovation of the Narva bastions, or some new thing that we can come up with in the next period. Or if, for example, we could organise a large basketball tournament in Estonia, this would certainly make a significant contribution to Estonia's development. I think we could work together to make sure that some big basketball competition comes to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U433	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U434	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You have promised to increase the income of Estonian residents. A moment ago, a law was passed that works against this cross. The reduction of social tax does not increase anyone's income by a cent, but the increase in excise duty increases the cost of the Estonian population. Why are you punishing the Estonian people with higher taxes? To what do the Estonian people deserve this punishment?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U435	Thank you. I would say that lowering labour taxes will certainly increase people's incomes. I am pretty sure that, if the tax costs of companies are lower, they will very, very likely direct a very, very large part of this saved money to an increase in wages. After all, the rising wage pressure in Estonia is very serious and entrepreneurs have repeatedly said that too much of people's working income is taken away by the state as taxes. This pressure isn't going anywhere. In Estonia, unemployment has fallen sharply, which is, of course, good news, but this, in turn, has caused wage pressure, which is a concern for entrepreneurs. If we cut the share of businesses in the tax burden, I am quite sure that a very large part of it will also go to raise wages. It will certainly help people to keep more money in their hands by increasing their income tax-free minimum. It is iron-proof, it concerns everyone who works, but it also affects all pensioners. It does not happen by itself that the average pension is constantly exempt from income tax in Estonia; we must change the law every time in order to increase the tax-free minimum again. This, of course, has its price, but we have agreed that for the next four years, throughout our entire period of governance, the average pension, which will increase by more than EUR 20 per month, will remain exempt from income tax and the tax exemption for pensions will also increase. So there's more money for people, you can count on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U436	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U437	Thank you. I think no one ever has any reason to doubt my patriotism. Neither do you. As far as refugee policy is concerned, I understand that this is a matter very close to your heart. Let it be said that the Prime Minister of Estonia or the Minister of the Interior would be exceptionally unpatriotic to go to Brussels and say that we are not interested in solving this problem, or say that our contribution to solving this problem is zero. This would be unpatriotic for a number of reasons, not just because then we would not find any understanding and create enemies in Europe instead of allies. That's what I'm talking about anyway. But that would be unpatriotic, even for cynical tactical reasons. We understand that the Commission's proposal, which is in the original one, does not satisfy us. In my opinion, there are no differences between the parliamentary groups here. If we have realised that this proposal does not satisfy us and that there are now 1064 refugees more than our willingness, measured in any aspect, to argue this figure less, we must also be prepared to offer some sort of solution ourselves. I believe that if we argue that our share of solving the problem must be proportional to the size of our country, then it will be possible for others to understand it. This, too, is not easy. There are, and there are countries that say no, they do not listen to it, they want us to accept 1064 refugees. There are quite a lot of these countries, and this job is difficult, but believe me, it is far more patriotic to approach these issues constructively and to offer your solutions, too, cynically and tactically. It is a matter of course whether Estonia should only be cynically practical, perhaps there is reason for us to show understanding on a number of issues. But let this be the subject of another debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U438	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U439	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I am sorry that at times it has become too personal here, which certainly does not lead to a debate on the substance. However, I would like to clarify your tax policy principles. Why is car fuel a vice that must be suppressed by taxation while the car itself is considered a good that cannot even be subject to a cent-size car tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U440	Thank you. That's a very good question. There are excise duties on fuel throughout Europe, exclusively in all countries. The main reason for this is that it wants to make human consumption more environmentally sustainable, reduce excessive spending and also meet climate policy objectives. But overall, everyone has one objective: to reduce harmful consumption to the environment. It is also true that most countries of the European Union are, apart from excise duties on fuel, which are much higher in other countries than in Estonia, stressing that the total value added tax (VAT) and VAT (VAT) in Estonia is currently lower than in any other country of the European Union, and that the total price of petrol is also lower. I will be honest with you that I personally am not in favour of car tax. In my opinion, the biggest problem with this tax is that it also weighs on people who rarely drive their cars. The existence of a car, as such, is not harmful to the environment. It's unfortunate to drive this car and to drive it too much. There are plenty of people in Estonia who have to buy a car, who also have to buy a car, which is not the most sustainable, but who drive this car a little, stop the car for the winter, and in summer too, very short ends are running. There are, and there are, examples. To say that these people should also pay car taxes is, in my opinion, not quite fair. But let us admit that a completely honest world-view debate is possible here. We should definitely not rule out the debate on this issue. Personally, I have simply not seen this argument, which would say that a car tax would be fairer than a tax on the actual consumption of fuel.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U441	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U442	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr Prime Minister! Looking at this whole package of changes in tax and excise rates, which the government has offered us to discuss in the context of the previous item, I must say that the county of Ida-Viru is the worst affected, because, among other things, excise duties such as oil shale excise and oil shale oil excise are rising. Is this part of the regional policy of the ruling coalition, or is the analysis of the regional impact of the draft simply not done because of haste?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U443	Thank you. The government's policies certainly also provide for steps that have a positive impact on the Ida-Viru region. We discussed this in the government and decided to support an initiative that increases the ability of the Estonian oil shale sector to withstand the crisis. This concerns specifically mining volumes. This means hundreds of jobs and additional tax revenues in the region, but it also means people's wages, the same people living in Ida-Viru County will receive higher incomes to consume services and buy goods. So there are certainly steps that specifically affect the region of Ida-Viru in a positive way. But also those steps that have a positive effect across Estonia, whether it is the reduction of labour taxes, the increase in child benefits or the tax refund of low-wage earners, have a huge impact on the people of Ida-Viru. Of course we don't know the difference here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U444	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U445	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! I would like to add something first, driven by Mr Repinski's question. As you said, you have entrepreneurial experience, at least as an observer. You must understand that an entrepreneur who decides to build a hotel and take a bank loan certainly does not plan his activities for a year or two, but for example ten years. The same applies to a person who chooses to buy land, for example, in order to become a farmer. We have to admit that the behaviour of the government so far does not give businesses confidence in the future. But the question is different. Who was the person who called you back from Brussels? You stressed that several times, but we didn't understand who it was.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U446	Thank you. That's a good question. Interestingly, it is Jaan Tõnisson who has been present on my desk since the first day of the publication of the book by another Tartu man, whom we both know well. That's what I show all my guests without exception. I think it's gonna take a little longer than I've been given on the remote. But it is certainly a matter of statesmanship to always put the interests of the state ahead of its own personal interests and to be able to make decisions, if necessary, which will be subject to great criticism in the next paper, but which will be in the interests of the Estonian state in the long term. I think there is a fundamental need for Estonian politicians to have sufficient statesmanship so that they not only make short-term popular and populist decisions, but really should have a longer aim and tell us where we are going, and explain why it is necessary to make decisions that do not immediately bring great applause or popularity. So honest decision-making, looking further and putting my duties ahead of my own personal interests are the first three things I would highlight.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U447	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U448	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! My question is about reducing social tax. As we know, this reduction of 1% is at the expense of health insurance funds. The chairman of the board of the Health Insurance Fund, Mr Ross, has spoken quite vigorously on this issue. He has said that the share of health insurance should not be reduced immediately, but rather the pension insurance funds should be reduced. It justifies this by the fact that, at present, 13% of this tax for health insurance under the law, then in future, the legal protection will be 12% and 1% will come from the so-called other funds. He probably doesn't have enough confidence that this could happen. How would you reassure both the Chairman of the Board of the Health Insurance Fund and us here that the resources of the Health Insurance Fund will not be reduced, but rather increase? The Health Insurance Fund is known to be at a disadvantage.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U449	Thank you. I, too, asked that question. We did not include in the coalition agreement what kind of funds we are going to lower social tax, but we did write in a firm principle that every last cent by which the social tax is to be reduced is either compensated to the pension fund or to the health insurance fund. We asked the officials of the Ministry of Finance who proposed such a solution. They explained this by means of a very important detail, perhaps not at first. This concerns the mandatory second pillar of pension insurance. There could have been some injustice, because there are people who do not pay for the second pillar and there are those who pay. There would have been a small but still considerable injustice compared to the current system. It was as if it had to create several rates and that would have made it very difficult. That is why we accepted the proposal to take this 1% of health insurance funds. But strictly there must be a formula in place, it is also in place, which each year, regardless of the tax reduction, compensates for every cent that would otherwise have been received. In itself, this formula is relatively simple. If we know that 13 units would otherwise be received from one specific tax, 13/33, then we also know that in the future this one unit can be derived precisely from 12 units. So 1/12 of this 12% goes to health insurance. The Ministry of Finance will probably be able to arrange it in such a way that it will continue to do well year after year. Yes, I am prepared to make this political commitment, and I believe that the other parties agree that every last cent is compensated for by the Health Insurance Fund, and that any less benefits of social tax reduction will be compensated by other means.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U450	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U451	Thank you, Chairman! Prime Minister! There has been a lot of debate here today on taxes, but I want to point out instead how the sources of this 'tax package' are well-founded for the people. These reasons are one of the causes of the irritation. When it is said that the rise in excise duties improves the situation of our natural environment or other such things, you might say mildly, hypocritical reasons, they have really irritated me too. Many civil activists have also been upset by some of the ministerial choices you have made. Do you plan to replace your PR advisor and any minister in the event of a failure to express mistrust?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U452	Thank you. It is clear that each excise duty has an impact, apart from its fiscal impact. I don't think it's pretty hypocritical to explain why one or the other excise has been brought to life. I do not think that we will have any argument about tobacco and alcohol at all. We understand perfectly that it is the price that affects consumption the most. We understand perfectly that the country as a whole has an interest in avoiding excessive consumption, and we understand perfectly that the most effective means of achieving this is an increase in the rate of excise duty. No one is denying that this is likely to result in higher tax receipts in the budget. So there is a positive fiscal impact, but the impact on public health is not negligible either. As far as excise duties on fuel are concerned, we have not made it a secret that this is primarily a measure that compensates for the reduction in labour taxes and the increase in child benefits. Of course, we need resources for all of this. But it is also not quite wrong to ask whether it must be that Estonia has the cheapest petrol in all of Europe and, at the same time, oh surprise, the most environmentally damaging car park in the whole of Europe. Of course, this five cents a year will not cause any major upheaval or cause people to change consumption completely. To this end, the increase in excise duty should be much faster. At the same time, it does give some kind of signal in terms of environmental protection, I wouldn't really underestimate it. In principle, car taxes in different countries also have the same objective. It has not been introduced because the car is simply an object that can be taxed, but it has still been sought to approach it through the fact that the more polluting the car, the higher it should be taxed. This has been the wish of different countries. Finnish colleagues have also decided to change their tax policy in the form of car tax differentiation, so that more environmentally harmful cars are taxed higher. Neither do they make it a secret that it has a positive budgetary impact. However, I would also not underestimate the fact that, in order to have a certain budgetary impact, it is important to look first and foremost at those places where the impact on society would be least painful. Any tax increase or any increase in excise duty can be criticised. Schweik also said that this government, which raises the price of beer, will not last long. At the same time, the people will be a little healthier if they don't drink too much beer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U453	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U454	...or was it just dim? In any case, by illuminating or introducing the tax changes of the Free Party, you have continued with this false or dim. While we are talking about the fact that, in our view, the increase in the rate of income tax is directly linked to the increase in the tax-free minimum, both Mr Rõivas and Remo Holsmer have, to put it mildly, been dim, more acutely lying, lifting our proposal out of the context of one of the parties and saying that we want to raise labour taxes. So we don't need your help. Well, that also turned out to be for the journalists here. We do not need the Reform Party's help in presenting our tax views. However, I think that it would be helpful to move Estonia forward if all political parties were to take a self-critical view of what has been done in the past. I think that this ideology of reducing income tax, which has ruled in Estonia for years, has not produced very good results. But this is the choice of how we move forward in Estonian politics, either by maliciously distorting each other's proposals and oppressing confrontations, or by working together and sometimes ready to give up our previously fossilised positions, so that Estonia can move forward. The way the government has dealt with these tax changes and pushed through the amendments without having to vote through the parliamentary procedures, unfortunately we do not see any elements of cooperation. As a result, the Free Party will vote in favour of the publication of censure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U455	There are no more requests to participate in the negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, since a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required to express censure on the Prime Minister, we will do a verification of the presence. There are 100 members of the Riigikogu, missing 1. I shall put to the vote the motion of censure on Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please take a stand and vote. There were 41 members of the Riigikogu in favour of expressing confidence, 59 against and no abstentions. The Riigikogu did not express distrust for Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U456	Thank you. The person who said in a specific way on Wednesday that the Centre Party was planning to initiate mistrust of the Prime Minister on Thursday was Kadri Simson, the leader of your group. Of course, it can be said that initiating a motion of mistrust by the Prime Minister is not a direct invitation to come back from Brussels. But on Thursday there was the last regular session of this session, of course the Prime Minister must be ready to answer the questions of the opposition and, of course, I have no choice but to come here in order to stand before you. Of course, I'm also right to be a little upset when it turns out that when the Centre Party found out I was back, you decided to delay mistrust. Well, in the meantime, there have been no additions to those who would have joined this motion of distrust. I understand your desire to keep this subject up as long as possible, but please understand me too when I say that the way you did it was not quite a good tone.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U457	Mikhail Stalnukhin, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U458	Thank you, Mr President. Yeah, I think it's a procedural question. In the white hall, the table is now covered with glasses and so on. Not so the coalition can celebrate the hard-working victory over the opposition, is it? We don't usually have visitors at this hour.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U459	This is not a procedural question. I have no idea...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U460	I deny my involvement in this matter. Maybe it's meant for visitors to Parliament, don't forget this opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U461	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U462	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! You have mentioned on several occasions today that the reduction in taxes on labour, we mean a reduction in social tax, is directly linked to the fact that the company is starting to raise wages. You said a while ago that you had confidence that this would happen. Do you have anything else to add to the belief in how these things are so connected, perhaps something in economic theory?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U463	Thank you. Yes, in addition to faith, I have a fairly objective knowledge that reduced unemployment has caused labour shortages in Estonia, which has led to very serious wage pressures. This, in turn, results in companies trying to raise wages as much as they can. In addition, I have assurances from several entrepreneurs with whom I have been in contact that they intend to use this money to raise wages. I also have the knowledge that, in addition to reducing social tax, the tax burden on people will be affected in a favourable way, both by increasing the tax-free minimum and by the tax refund of low-wage earners. Both have considerable tax-reducing effects and actually leave more money in the hands of people. For this reason, we can be sure that it concerns everyone. As I said, these are not only labour taxes on a narrow scale, but an increase in the tax-free minimum applies also to those who no longer work, i.e. pensioners. The tax-free share of pensions is also increasing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U464	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U465	I would like to sum up all the previous questions, which is why my question consists of two sub-questions. Firstly, on Friday, a meeting of the Administrative Reform Committee took place under your leadership for the first time. Perhaps you will provide information about decisions and moods and the prospects that real decisions will be made in this area during your reign. Secondly, last week there was a very strange trial on the Pihkvas Eston Suitcase. As Prime Minister, how will you monitor this process? Do you have any information that the Riigikogu should know? The Eston Suitcase's question is that there is a certain degree of licorice in our security.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U466	Thank you. Both very important issues. As far as this trial is concerned, it is very difficult to find positive words to characterize it. It seems to me to be a staggering act, and the information that has come to my attention confirms that. Of course, it is very important to do everything in order to keep the attention of both the Estonian public and the international community in the fact that one Estonian person has been forcefully taken from the territory of Estonia and is being held in Russia without a legal basis. This is a vicious offence, and we should under no circumstances forget it. I am grateful to every diplomat, every politician who brings this up at an international meeting. A number of Members of the European Parliament have also done a commendable job here. I'm grateful to all the journalists who keep this up. Only by not forgetting and constantly exerting pressure can we hope that this case will be resolved positively. Now from the Administrative Reform Government Committee. I will be honest with you that this meeting was constructive and positive beyond expectations. Why is that? Because there were not only representatives of the government coalition at the table, there were not only politicians or officials working with politicians, but there were experts, local authorities, people who also belong to opposition parties, such as the leader of a particular self-government association. The debate was very substantive and focused on the most important issues: what exactly are the criteria for assessing municipalities and what should be the deadline for reform. These are the key issues that need to be answered in preparation for such a major matter. After I received an overview of the work of the Committee of Experts from Minister Arto Asa, and after this meeting of the Government Committee, I dare say that administrative reform will not be easy, but that is not an impossible task. So we will work together to make it happen. The experience so far has clearly been positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U467	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U468	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In October 1933, when Jaan Tõnisson left the Prime Minister's office, he said that he was leaving this position because he had been accused of being a little civilized. Please, tell me what your understanding of statesmanship is!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U469	Thank you. Prime Minister, I would like to correct you. The goal of the government should be that the price of petrol in Europe should be one of the lowest, the price of electricity and all other prices should also be low, as we know that one of Europe's lowest wages is among the lowest in Estonia. Now to my question. In one of the previous responses, you did not specifically mention political responsibility. Let us imagine that today's disclosure of distrust will not work in this form, and you will continue as Prime Minister, which I am, of course, very happy about and I suppose you and your child will also be able to take a holiday. But if your scenario doesn't work out and everything about demography, price increases, entrepreneurship doesn't go the way it should go, what happens then? Will you take political responsibility in a year or two if this scenario, which you have been talking about for several hours, does not apply?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U470	Thank you. I sensed a pretty significant difference in worldview between the things you offer for the government's purpose and what I think is right. You're supposed to have the wage status quo normal, you're saying it's a assumption, and that's what it's supposed to be. In my opinion, the opposite is true. The government's goal must not be to keep tobacco, alcohol and fuel at all costs, but to increase income. I think that we all actually want the income of the Estonian people to be higher. Any steps that lower labour taxes will contribute to this in the short and long term. This has been confirmed by Estonia's experience so far. It is no coincidence that Estonia's wage level is significantly higher than that of Latvia, Lithuania and several other countries, which has been the result of the determined work of several governments. As for responsibility, I'm not afraid of responsibility. The politician stands before his constituents every time there is an election. The politician must be determined to explain to the voters why one decision or another is needed. If voters do not like this decision, of course the politician must be responsible for it. At the elections, we all bear the responsibility of our constituents. I wish that, not only I as Prime Minister, but also as members of your Riigikogu, you would do everything to use this very important mandate for us wisely and to make all the decisions for the benefit of the Estonian people only, not for the sake of short-term popularity, and that there would be the statesmanship that my colleague, Krista Aru, asked about.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U471	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U472	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister, first of all, thank you for the many hours of debate! It has been quite interesting to follow your views on one point or another, but it is quite a concern of your hint, as if the mother of refugees had come into question only recently. After all, the quota issue has been in the air in the European Union for almost ten years. First, Spain raised this issue very seriously a decade ago when almost as many refugees or immigrants came to the Canary Islands as there were residents. Therefore, your resentment for the Thursday event will not be understood. It is perfectly understandable that according to logic, the opposition put all the votes of confidence on a single day. But now the question: how are things really going with these refugees? Do you think this is a new issue, or do you actually know that the Government of the Republic has had to deal with it for a long time?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U473	Thank you. That's the right question. I thank you for the opportunity to clarify my words. I was talking, driven by current events. I meant that, apart from the extraordinary Council, which was already held during the current government's term of office and where countries agreed at the level of the Heads of Government to jointly support voluntary resettlement, the European Commission, under the leadership of Jean-Claude Juncker, took a completely different direction. It was said that now there is a new reality and the quota is just as large. This was not the case before. I am therefore saying, however, that after the Commission had taken such an important position and actually contradicted the earlier position of the Member States, this issue still became more topical. I'm sure you'll know more about it, but I'm not taking part in your group's meetings, and your inside information doesn't know if you had very noble considerations when you changed that date. I simply considered it my duty to say honestly that on Thursday, several important meetings were cancelled and the opportunity to represent Estonia's views diminished. I can't blame you too much, either. You're doing your job. However, it remains a little prickly that some important meetings were cancelled, where perhaps Estonia's views could have been defended even more effectively.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U474	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Kadri Simson, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U475	Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu! Do you trust the Prime Minister, who does not have a vision to promote Estonia's life? Do you trust the Prime Minister who talks about the new Nordic countries in the run-up to the elections, but after the elections, he will be satisfied with the same old policy that basically tore the Gulf of Finland wide? Do you trust the Prime Minister whose work is considered unsatisfactory by the Estonian people? After the vote of confidence, can you say with a calm heart that your vote gave confidence to Estonian entrepreneurs? Do you think it is normal for the Prime Minister not to give priority to the opinion of those who did not support his party in the elections? Are you convinced that the time has come in Estonia when the Prime Minister's person does not have to have authority for the nearest circle of fellow fighters or society as a whole? If you are not convinced of this, then Estonia, as Prime Minister, would deserve someone else. The Prime Minister, who sets targets that will lead to faster economic growth and help to catch up with the Nordic countries. Estonia would need a government led by the Prime Minister, who would tackle emigration and ensure wage growth, which would help us catch up with the prices that have grown in the meantime. But these questions are not on the government table today. Instead, tax rates are played. We all know that in re-independence Estonia, ministers and even fewer prime ministers are not distrusted too often. 28 cases have so far been discussed in the Chamber of Riigikogu for the publication of censure, and only twice has the motion of censure in this Chamber received the support of 51 or more parliamentarians: in 1994, mistrust was expressed to Prime Minister Mart Laar and ten years ago to the Minister of Justice Ken-Marti Vaher, who entered the Meteorological Buffalo. The mistrust of the Prime Minister was voted last time more than six years ago when then Prime Minister Andrus Ansip carried on tax increases and carried out major cuts, having said himself just a few months earlier that if it was a crisis, he would want to live in a crisis like this. What Andrus Ansip did at the time in the face of total economic miscalculation and severe recession is now a choice of comfort for Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. I am thinking of bad legislation when, without urgent need, the opposition of the Riigikogu is deprived of the usual possibility of processing drafts. This is only so that tax increases can be legalised more quickly and the Riigikogu would not have the opportunity to make changes. In our opinion, this attitude is not democratic. By cutting the role of the Riigikogu by all means, ignoring tax increases, requesting the signatures of more than 27,000 Estonian people and answering questions in an arrogant manner, Taavi Kõivas is not worthy of the position of Prime Minister. Each vote in favour of mistrust gives a signal that could be used as a basis for recognising the incompetence of Taavi Clothes itself and taking the next steps on a voluntary basis. Finally, a personal address. We heard here that the mood of Taavi Rõivas has not been violated by the pressure caused by the price and tax increases on the Estonian people; his mood has also been disturbed by the concern of entrepreneurs about VAT on accommodation facilities, but his mood was ruined by the delayed holiday. I'm sorry about that. But I can assure you that we did not know that Taavi Kõivas is planning a family holiday when tax increases are being pushed through the Riigikogu. We said immediately that this motion of distrust was intended against a minister who is a pressurising force for tax increases. When the government decided to take the ordinary procedural form from the Riigikogu in the late hours of Wednesday, it was also clear that this motion of censure, together with the draft tax increases, must be discussed on the same day. So the aim was not to trouble the Prime Minister in family life. The Prime Minister might think that another profession would give him a better chance to get together with his family than he wants. We distrust the Prime Minister because he does not have the support of the people, his work has been given an unsatisfactory grade, he is pushing through tax increases that were not discussed before the elections, and he has no vision of where the Estonian and Estonian economies should move forward. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U476	On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Martin Helme, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U477	Dear Speaker! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The Bible says that those who are not grateful for little are not grateful for much. We can be grateful for the briefness of the Prime Minister in his introductory speech. Unfortunately, however, we heard basically a campaign speech. We heard a nice talk about what's coming. We heard how the government has acted quickly and is determined to improve Estonia's life in order to bring us to the Nordic countries, and repeated assurances that the government is not afraid of criticism. Of course not. The government doesn't just ignore criticism. He ignores criticism. What really is the problem? The problem is that the government has pushed these draft laws in a very hasty manner before Parliament, confirming that it is extremely ugly of the opposition to put forward amendments which are not relevant. But we confirm that when the government passes on a bill to the Riigikogu, which includes so many laws that even in the title it is not possible to list all seven laws, it is precisely that we are going to talk about the age of coins, though the length of boats. But to say that among the 200 amendments that came from the opposition, there was no one that deserved to be considered, is wrong, completely wrong. I can tell you that at least two amendments to the opposition were read out in the committee, which was one of the programme written down by the Reform Party itself. So it wasn't just the voting out of garbage, it was a road roll tactic. However, the real point of the problem is that the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister's party have lied to the public. This is the same thing that everyone has already spoken about here today: there was a talk before the elections, and there was a different talk after the elections. Basically, the campaign promise of the Reform Party was ahead of schedule! '. No matter how we understand this slogan, it does not mean very big tax changes or radically different immigration policy than Estonia has had in the last 15 to 20 years. This isn't from 'Absolutely! ', there has been no mandate. At meetings with entrepreneurs, the most angry ones have been those who have said that they voted in favour of the Reform Party in the elections, who have now cheated on them. There was a lot of talk about trust. I want to put to the Prime Minister that trust in society does not equal 59 votes in this Chamber. They're not the same thing. The Prime Minister has no trust in society. The reason why we are giving our support to this distrust is that we do not think that the Prime Minister is adequate. Looks like the beautiful fairy tale he's telling us here, he believes. The problem is no one else seems to believe it. Maybe the members of the coalition believe it, but you don't believe it outside this hall. Time and again, in the round of questions and answers that took place over the last few hours, it also turned out that the Prime Minister lives in his fantasy bubble, which has very little to do with reality, the real life of Estonia. The Prime Minister said something like that several times, yes, the government takes into account that he is currently under strong criticism, because he is making difficult decisions with responsibility for the government, but these decisions are good for Estonia in the long run. But what if these obviously difficult and unpopular decisions are bad in the long run? A very large part of Estonian society thinks that they are bad in the long term. If the Prime Minister cannot understand this criticism and if coalition parties are unable to respond to this criticism, such a government must be replaced in a democratic system. That's what mistrust means. There has been repeated talk here about how people's incomes will increase as a result of social tax cuts. Again, throughout this whole day, it has been repeatedly pointed out that a spoon has been given, but it has been taken with a scoop. It is not a question of people getting paid more, but it is a question of people losing real purchasing power and worsening their lives. In the same way, the Prime Minister and the Coalition have failed to realise that we do not agree with giving some more subsidies, but that money is being taken away from all other places. We just don't see any economic sense in it. But now, summarizingly. So, what are we protesting about today, expressing our distrust? We protest against lying. This is a very bad political culture that is currently being practiced. We protest against legislative opportunism and voluntarism, which has been practiced both by the government and by the current governing board of the Riigikogu. We protest against the strangling of the Estonian economy. We protest against the deterioration of the lives of the Estonian people and against the reduction of their purchasing power. We protest against disregarding citizens' opinions. We also protest against it as it came out again today, and just as it has repeatedly appeared in previous debates with Minister of Finance Sester that no one will be responsible if the Estonian economy is ruined. Nobody's responsible. But if the government is essentially not ready to take responsibility, then it must be replaced. Estonia deserves better! Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U478	Andres Herkel, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U479	Mr. Chairman! Members of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Since the disclosure of censure to the Prime Minister is a political step, even if it does not work, let me start with a more general assessment of the situation where Estonia's politics are now. There is probably no news to anyone that our security situation has deteriorated and is deteriorating, and together with the European Union as a whole, we are facing a number of problems that were either quite unknown to us a few years ago, such as the migration problem, or were still gaining strength, such as the problem of Greek finances. There are certainly many such complex questions around us. This is not an easy time, and in this time Estonia needs a strong government. Unfortunately, we have a rather fragile government and, in fact, the parties to the government are even more fragile. In today's Postimees, Ahto Lobjakas writes that Estonia is in a management crisis. In a sense, this applies to our political parties, also to the parties to the government union, where there are either clear internal problems, clear differences of opinion, post-election hangover or even internal democracy problems. In any case, the situation that prevails in our political parties will not help us to have a strong, active and constructive government in Estonia. Yes, by today's vote of confidence, you will probably put these differences on the lid for a while, but that does not mean that the policy that the Prime Minister is leading with these tax changes is a good one. On the contrary, I repeat that these tax changes already voted through today are daunting in their content and form as well as in the way they are processed in the Riigikogu. Indeed, the government does not have a constructive vision when tax changes are primarily designed to fulfil electoral promises, not to regulate the development of the Estonian economy in a long way. The Free Party would have liked to vote in the Riigikogu on the amendments to bill No 41 that we tabled, but if this cannot be done and we have been deprived of this opportunity, then we must vote in favour of the motion of censure submitted. Of course, we do not need such a patronizing tone of the Centre Party, as we heard yesterday from a press release on the radio, which explained what the Free Party should or should not do. I do not think that the timing of the publication of mistrust in itself was perhaps very good. 15 years of experience with night sessions that the Centre Party and other people in this hall have not enriched Estonia's political culture, but have been such a little constructive that it is more likely not to have amplified the counter-opinion that slows down. Yes, the government brought before the Riigikogu a vicious bill. By now, this law has been passed. We also have personal complaints to the Prime Minister. The question is whether it is wrong or dim. Was it wrong that before the elections there was no mention of the tax changes planned... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U480	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U481	We will move forward on the agenda items. The second reading of the draft law amending labour market services and grants initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws begins. The rapporteur is Minister of Finance Sven Sester. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U482	Ladies and gentlemen, attention! The trial will be resumed. Please, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U483	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will give you an overview of the draft law amending labour market services and benefits and other laws, which bears the number 40. This is a second reading. Now a brief overview of the draft procedure. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic. May 25th, the first reading took place on June 3rd. By the deadline for submitting amendments, 5 June, the Estonian Free Party Group submitted proposals, and three amendments were proposed by the Social Affairs Committee. The Committee on Social Affairs prepared a second reading in two sessions: 8 and 9 June. As the Government decided at its meeting on 10 June to link the adoption of the draft law to a matter of trust, according to the law, the Social Affairs Committee's obligation to deal with the draft was terminated and the Government prepared a new text, a list of amendments and an explanatory memorandum for the second reading at its meeting on 11 June. The Government of the Republic also examined and decided on amendments to the draft. I will now address the amendments to the draft. Amendment 1 was tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. Its content is the establishment of a refund system for persons aged 16 years and over, instead of those aged 18 years and over. The government decided not to accept this proposal. The reason is that the majority of young people aged 16 to 17 are students and that it is beneficial for society to continue education. There are many young people in the labour market without an invitation. The aim of the repayment of low-wage earners is to increase incentives to enter and stay in the labour market. It is unreasonable to set the same objective for children and young people whose priority must, however, be education at this age. Amendment 2 was also tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. The essence of this is to apply what is proposed in the draft to those who work part-time. When considering this proposal, the government considered that the application of the low-paid refund only to full-time employees, now with the exception of incapacity pensioners, formally reduces the motivation of part-time but factually full-time workers to accept such working conditions, mostly those offered by the employer. Since full working time is an important tool in the fight against envelope wages, the government also decided not to accept this amendment. The government decided to take into account Amendment 3 of the Social Committee, which removes the requirement for full-time employment of incapacity pensioners, as they cannot always be expected to work full-time for objective reasons. As a result of this change, pensioners will be entitled to a refund even if they work part-time, regardless of the rate of working time. However, there is still a requirement that work must be continuous, i.e. work must be carried out for at least six months in a calendar year. As a result, the proposed reimbursement system is consistent with the nature of incapacity for work and also encourages incapacity pensioners to take up work and remain in the labour market. The government also took into account the following amendment of the Social Committee, which is included in List No 4, which complements the link between the joint declarations of spouses and the fixing of the maximum repayment limit. In the case of an initial and substantially simpler version of the draft act, in the case of a certain distribution of the income of the spouses submitting the joint declaration, a situation would arise where the low-paid person submitting the joint declaration would receive a significantly higher refund than he would receive by submitting a separate income tax return, not because of the income tax paid by himself but by the spouse. Under the amendment, the repayment limit will become more neutral in relation to the submission of the individual or joint declaration. The government also took into account Amendment 5 of the Social Committee, which corrects the technical error in the draft. The deadline for payment of the refund was 30 June in the draft. According to § 46 (3) of the Income Tax Act, the excess payment of income tax is normally refunded by 1 July at the latest. In order to facilitate the work of the Tax and Customs Board, it is appropriate to reconcile these deadlines, which is also the case with this amendment. That was my review of the draft procedure in the Government of the Republic. Finally, the draft improves the situation of people on low wages, reduces poverty and supports economic growth. I therefore hope that you will find an opportunity to vote in favour of the adoption of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U484	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U485	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The explanatory memorandum to the draft law shows that, after this law has been implemented, the number of beneficiaries of income support and targeted family benefits will decrease, as the benefits discussed here will be taken into account when calculating income support. Why are you punishing recipients of income support by taking away their monthly allowance and replacing it with support that they receive only once a year?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U486	Thank you. Quite the opposite of ideology and reverse logic. We must do everything we can to get people out of the income support system. People should not aim to live with income support. If we are able to put into practice measures that help recipients of income support through the pay they earn in real life, then I think that these are the proposals that we should support here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U487	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U488	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I must acknowledge you because you are a person who knows quite well the mechanism proposed in this bill. You have explained this in the Committee on Social Affairs. To be honest, I don't know any other person who knows this system as well as you do. I think it's such a screechless monster with a sliding clutch with a lot of nuances. It has been discussed that there is a possibility of fraud, whether in working hours, child benefits or whatever. Surely, clever people can invent frauds that no one can predict right now. Wouldn't it have been easier to take and make one tax rate, so, let's say, from EUR 300 to EUR 600, income tax would be 10%, for example? This degree is negotiable, but everything would be transparent and secure.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U489	Thank you. Actually, there's nothing hard about it. If you look at the formula, you'll see that there's nothing difficult here. It is very clearly fixed what the rate of reimbursement is, what the gross wage is, what the number of months during which a given year is worked. There is nothing special or difficult in itself. It is very clear how much one person or another gets in gross wages. As you will notice, in the case of steps, the question would always be that a person might have an interest in not applying for extra wages when he or she agrees with the employer if he or she exceeded that level. If there is a smooth transition, there will be no interest in earning one or ten extra euros. It's always an interest. Even if the repayment of the State's repayment system is reduced, the net income will increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U490	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U491	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. When discussing the previous point, people's conversions were quoted several times. I would also like to give you a question from a parent. He wrote that he gets 800 euros' salary, he's a single parent with three children, his father doesn't help raise children, but now he doesn't get anything from the state. However, a family with, for example, two working people who receive or slightly exceed the minimum wage will receive support from the state. He asked how such a country should be viewed. It seems a little unfair to him that his country doesn't give him anything, but these people do.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U492	Thank you. It is not speculation; it is basic numbers that can be taken out very clearly. It is possible to take out the incomes of all people, and it is possible to look at exactly how many people belong to each of the 100 deciles. As a result, we can calculate exactly how many people work with a gross salary of 400 euros and how many with a gross salary of 410 euros. Based on today's data, you can calculate very precisely what this law will cost the budget of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U493	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U494	Thank you. Good minister! Estonia generally applies very exceptional tax systems. Firstly, the corporate tax system is very exceptional and now again it is something that is very exceptional. Can you name another country where similar systems are applied and tax refunds are made in this form? Do you have an analogue from Latin America or something?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U495	Thank you. Perhaps the most important example is really over the puddle in the United States. Ronald Reagan was the one who said at one point that America should start watching people on lower incomes, firstly, bring them into the labour market, secondly, keep them there, and thirdly, how to create a situation in which they could develop their motivation. From there, for the first time, the concept of "special labour market measures" for low-wage earners emerged. Maybe it wasn't the first time it was done, but what Ronald Reagan did is definitely one of the important signs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U496	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U497	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister! Within ten limits, I calculate loosely, I mean, but... [[Laughing.]] I'm sorry! Now I have a question about how much a Duck's egg costs. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U498	Thank you. As I said before, there are no stupid questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U499	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U500	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! My question is motivated by your response to Mr Korb, given just a moment ago. You said that it was possible to calculate everything, both who's getting paid now and who's going to get the tax credit. But you also said that your goal is to bring more people into the labour market who would agree, wouldn't you say, to work full-time for a relatively small salary? How do you know how many more you can bring? How have you calculated this? Or is it again as your good colleague, Juhan Parts, has said that there is money in the budget for all of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U501	Thank you. Today it is very clearly possible to take out the number of people whose wages are below the minimum wage, and it is possible to mention the number of people who are working by receiving a salary from the minimum wage to EUR 480, namely EUR 500. For these people, we hope, this measure will work, and we will see that people who are currently working part-time or are not working at all will have additional motivation not to remain in the current situation, but to enter the labour market, for example. Once again, I expect that, if this draft is brought to the level of the law, we will see a situation in which people come to the labour market. Life shows that if the number of people entering the labour market is higher, note that there will also be higher social tax receipts. On the one hand, the state pays back income tax, on the other hand, employers will pay social tax on those entering the labour market.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U502	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U503	Thank you. Good minister! You claim your bill has taken a snitt from Ronald Reagan. It is not a question of where ideas are created, it is a question of what is the operational impact of ideas. Tell us a few words about how much Reagan was able to reduce poverty in his society.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U504	Thank you. I've read the analysis of measures taken in a particular system in America. By the way, it is worth noting that references to the foundations of our system should be read in the draft of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association, which were put into procedure during the last months of the previous Riigikogu. Be sure to read it too, there are quite a few references to what these analytical packages are, how this system has worked. In Estonia, we see, this bill starts to touch 104000 people in the middle.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U505	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U506	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress, Minister of Finance! Indeed, when we recall debates on electoral promises and later drafts, it must be said that the promises made by the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance have been quite complex. There was more respect for parents, parental pensions, which created quite a debate. A lot of people didn't get it. The ad explained very simply that every person with a small salary will now be allowed to keep more money. A draft has been submitted, which needs to be read in depth quite a number of times. As Minister of Finance, could you explain why the Ministry of Finance is going to be so complicated when the promises of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance are being spoken about? Or is it going to be a little easier for other parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U507	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U508	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no more wish to negotiate. I'm closing the negotiations. Due to § 137 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, no amendments will be put to the vote and the final vote will take place. I am voting on the draft law amending labour market services and grants initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws 40. Please take a stand and vote. 59 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 34 against, with no abstentions. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U509	Thank you, manager. Minister of Finance! With your previous and previous answers, you insulted those people who receive income support. These people are certainly not oriented towards receiving this support. They're miserable people who don't have a job and who don't get enough money to make a living. You could apologize to these people. But I think it is absolutely foolish for you to take EUR 200000 at the expense of income support and need-based family benefits. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U510	Three more minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U511	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Although this bill will be passed by law in the Riigikogu on the road roll method, regardless of what the people and the opposition say about it, allow me to highlight these points why this law should not be adopted at least in this form. The Centre Party has talked a lot about labour poverty and progressive income tax, and it did so for a long time before the IRL decided to come up with a plan for a gradual redistribution of its complex and ineffective tax revenue. The plan of the Centre Party is simple and clear, taxing the more wealthy and raising the minimum wage and increasing the income tax-free minimum, while the IRL decides to leave the low-paid for long years in a wage trap and reset their further pay increases. Before the elections, we saw Juhan Parts do tricks at the store with eggs in expensive ads. That's all the smart one ever found out. Later, it was evident that both the IRL and the Duck failed in these elections. It should have been an indicator that the people wouldn't go along with the IRL tax plan. But, as you can see, a government coalition led by the Reform Party, trying to stay in power at all costs, doesn't care. First of all, the government must recognise the fact that the IRL tax scheme is by its very nature the introduction of graduated income tax. Secondly, the most important thing is that this change would lead to a reduction in wage poverty. But is that true? The main problem for people living in poverty is that they do their job honestly, but they have great difficulty coming out with their income until the end of the month. Instead of being able to live out of their wages, the State offers them another support measure, which only generates revenue once a year. I would stress that only once a year, the state makes a tax refund of less than EUR 7782 per year, which is not enough to help these people all year round. Not only does the government plan to save around EUR 200000 of income support and need-based family benefits for tax refunds, which is absurd because the beneficiaries of these benefits need the highest level of financial support. A very important aspect is that the proposed tax change will encourage the informal economy and the payment of envelope wages. The Tax and Customs Board has taken steps over a long time to effectively combat envelope wages. Now, however, businesses are even more motivated to pay part of their salary in an envelope, as the country can become one of the parties to this scheme. From the employer's point of view, the refund of income tax means an increase in the employee's income which will no longer be offered voluntarily to the employee in the coming years. It is clear that, after these steps, both people and the economy as a whole are increasingly caught up in a wage trap, the danger of which was written by the last human development report. If we add to this the tax increases that the government is pushing through at any cost and which lead to an increase in prices, I do not see any improvement in the well-being of people with lower incomes due to these changes. A wage trap could easily be described as a poverty trap where the risk of survival increases. Therefore, since the proposed step does not have a mandate for the people and leaves the people with lower incomes still in poverty trap, the Centre Party cannot support the bill. We want substantive changes, not changes for our own sake. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U512	Thank you. Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U513	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Pretty different emotions are kind of in there right now. I would never have believed that we would be discussing such a tax change in this Chamber, because the policy of the Reform Party and the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union in tax matters has been very conservative for years. It has always been said that tax exemptions must be abolished, but now there is a bill for the hall, which is essentially against the entire tax policy so far. This is surprising on the one hand. On the other hand, why did I say that feelings were crazy? As a middle party, I should be delighted that, after all, the way of life or thoughts of the Centre Party that we have been talking about for years will come true in the country. But somehow the joy is a little bitter. Why is it not such a feeling of true joy? Firstly, the proposed system is a first and very big step towards injustice. The principle of a fair tax system is that all tax subjects are taxed equally, every earned kroon is taxed equally, every tenth earned kroon is taxed equally, and every thousand earned kroon is taxed equally. What will happen with the new system? One person earned 600 euros, yes, I'm sorry, I was talking about kroons, I got kicked in the same way, and another person earned 600 euros is taxed differently. This is some kind of new tax policy, which is not Estonia's new tax policy, it is something even more recent. It has features like a new tax policy around the world. I think such an invention must definitely be declared a bonus nomination. The second question, of course, is that the decision is political. The Minister told us very passionately that, yes, it is a political decision, that low-paid people must be brought into the labour market, that they must be put to work, that the Estonian economy is developing. All these thoughts and ideas are very good. But the question is what our country's priorities are. When parental benefit or child birth allowance was once introduced, it was clear that maternity allowance was intended for more children to be born and it would be easier for people to make a decision to have a child. It was designed to increase the number of Estonian residents. But it was all a result. I ask what will be the result of this measure if it is clear that it will be easier to commit tax fraud and EUR 38 million will go to support the entry of low-paid people into the labour market. Do teachers or policemen really get paid enough to pay enough for cultural workers? I doubt that very much. If this 38 million were to be directed towards an increase in teachers' wages, at least 10% would actually increase the salary of each teacher, 40% would rise the salaries of police officers if all this money were to be channelled into their wages. I believe that support for a strong middle class must be the first and main objective. With regard to this amount, EUR 38 million, it may indeed be very accurate to calculate everything, but if the law is adopted, the situation will change. First of all, people find out that there's... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U514	Thank you. If you look at this bill, you'll understand what it's been called for. It is precisely so that low-paid people can enter the labour market, have an interest in working and getting paid. Measures intended for families with children, child benefits, are in the context of other measures. The purpose of this draft is to create motivation for people to enter the labour market, which is the only purpose that they can have. Possible changes to income tax refunds apply to everyone: families with children, but also to those who have received additional reimbursements on training costs or interest on housing loans or have received income tax from the State as an additional measure. There is one important issue in the context of this draft. Our aim is to bring more and more people into the labour market, to keep them there and to motivate them to receive higher wages.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U515	Thank you. First of all, the claim that someone insulted someone is on your conscience. Surely neither you nor I are interested in insulting anyone. I stress once again that it must be up to all of us, both the Minister and Members, to bring as many people as possible into the labour market. The proportion of people who would be able to cope with earning wages, not through support systems, should be as high as possible. It must be our interest here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U516	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U517	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, Entrepreneurs and economic journalists have repeatedly pointed out the risk of employers being tempted to pay envelope wages as a result of this draft. From what analysis has your conviction that there is no such threat?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U518	Thank you. I have brought it out earlier, and I will now repeat that the government has taken a number of decisions to reduce the risks of envelope wages. Let us not forget that if the employer and the employee wish to agree on the payment of an envelope salary, or so-called non-legal income, they will also have this opportunity today. However, in order to reduce the possibility of new cases of payment of envelope wages, the following is foreseen. First, payments are not made every month, but once a year. This clearly reduces the possibility of paying envelope wages, as the state does not make a monthly refund. Secondly, administration is placed on the shoulders of the Tax and Customs Board. The Tax and Customs Board is the structure that administers tax issues of all citizens of the Republic of Estonia, which are mainly related to income tax. As you know, the grant mechanism is under the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Tax Administration, which will also administer the changes introduced by this new law, which, I hope, will soon be put into effect, will still be able to monitor the different patterns now, to see where the average wage in this sector is clearly paid below. Of course, future social guarantees are linked to unemployment insurance, pension, maternity allowance, and our net and gross wages. I will also mention changes in terms of full-time. The Free Party proposed an amendment on potential part-time work. We see that there is a very likely risk here that a formal entrepreneur may employ a person on a part-time basis, but in essence a person works full-time. A full-time obligation is also foreseen to take this risk off.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U519	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U520	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! We here sometimes ask simple questions, not because we are stupid, but because our constituents also want to hear your smart answers. It's not for nothing that this bill is called the eggs bill. I understand you're allergic to progressive income tax, hopefully not to eggs. Before the election, Mr. Ducks went around Selver and raised these eggs here and there. It was then claimed that there was something wrong with it, whether there was an egg missing or if there was only an empty shell. But in any case, that explanation was very illustrative. I think you have all these Duck eggs counted in your group. Can you imagine that you now have ten eggs, and could you explain the matter simply and elegantly without having that empty shell flaw?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U521	Thank you. Members never ask stupid questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U522	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U523	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The Free Party really proposed lowering the age limit from the age of 18 to the age of 16. Yes, we agree, of course, that the child's task is to learn, to acquire an education. That's absolutely right. But life is often not so black and white. There are also young people who are forced to drop out of vocational education because they are the only ones in the family who have a job, and they have to help support the family. It has been said that these young people are relatively few. How many young people are punished in this way and who cannot apply for a refund? I believe that the officials of the Ministry of Finance have certainly found out about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U524	Thank you. We have not done a separate analysis, but this can always be done in terms of the number of young people in a particular age group, 15, 16 or 17 years old who, for example, are not studying. I can't tell you this information. It's a discussion place, though. There may be different opinions here, and there is nothing weird about it. I've been trying to convey what the government has right now. I have also tried to explain why there is a specific position or understanding. I'll repeat that. It is assumed that the basic work of a child of this age is education. The fact is that there are often young people in the labour market without an invitation. On the basis of this and given that basic education is still difficult to cope with in the labour market, our aim should be to achieve the objective of the law, which is to ensure that people only work full-time when they are 18 years old.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U525	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U526	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I also, like my colleague Viktor Vassilyev, tried to understand this formula. I even got the feeling at some point that it worked. I tried to calculate by this formula how much one person gets back, then I multiplied it by the number of potential recipients, and I have to tell you honestly that according to my calculations, 38 million euros didn't work out, but it came out much more. But it needs, of course, more analysis and calculation. But in fact, both my argument and yours are speculation. We don't know what it's really gonna take. My question is relatively simple: what kind of excise duty or tax will be raised if this amount is higher than EUR 38 million?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U527	Thank you. Well, beauty is always in the eyes of the viewer, and there's always a question that's complicated and that's not. Someone thinks one thing is complicated, the other doesn't. This can go on and on. I don't see anything complicated here. Looking also at earlier promises, you pointed out the IRL promises, of course, it seems difficult to exempt homeowners from land tax. How do you calculate this? In fact, there is nothing complicated here, it is very simple: people living in densely populated areas have been exempted from paying land tax for 1,500 square metres of land under their homes, and people living in sparsely populated areas have been freed up to two hectares. If you ask whether it is difficult to calculate a parental pension, there is nothing difficult in itself. The formulas are there, and everything is very clear. Rather, the question arises as to why this had not been mentioned before. Perhaps some kind of bill and thought have been ahead of time. When Urmas Reinsalu said that there was a need for the presence of NATO troops in Estonia, everyone wondered how this was possible and what he was right to say. There's more people on the tank today than I could fit in a picture. I don't think there's anything complicated here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U528	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U529	Thank you. Good minister! I wanted to point out that caution should be exercised in setting such powerful political icons as an example. Reagan was the president of the United States, during which the wealthy stratification deepened, the availability of health services deteriorated, and the political dictatorship of the oligarchs strengthened. In short, Reagan lacked a full vision of society. Do you have a firm conviction today that companies will not artificially hold wages in the event of a tax refund?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U530	Thank you. As regards the introduction to your question, I say that we must all be careful when presenting possible interpretations. Certainly, over time, large politicians may have had measures that either have worked or have not worked. I gave this example, which actually started working, at least in my view. As far as entrepreneurs are concerned, Mr Ammas asked me, too, what are the measures that could have a negative impact on the 'envelope' wage. Your question is basically the same thing. There was one thing I didn't say at the time. That's a very good answer to your question. At present, a possible income tax refund will win the employee, not the employer, but should there be a situation where MTA discovers a possible unlegal agreement, the penalty will extend jointly and severally to the employer. This is one of these concrete examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U531	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U532	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Sven, if I were to start explaining to you right now the building of a gene, the emergence of a genome, and everything else, I think it would be incredibly simple, in your opinion, enormously complicated. I mean, we're the Riigikogu, you're the minister, you're drafting laws for people, not for lawyers. Please don't disparage Mail! Are laws passed for lawyers or for the well-being of people?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U533	Thank you. I respect the entire Riigikogu; I do not want to disparage any Members, nor have I ever wanted to do so. Don't give me any arguments I haven't made. I think that by my behaviour I have also shown that I rather respect all Members of Parliament, including those whose political views do not coincide with mine. As far as your question is concerned, all laws must, of course, be made for the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U534	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U535	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. On today's first item, the government decided to link trust issues on the basis of two arguments. Firstly, more than 200 amendments have been tabled and you felt that the opposition wanted to delay the sitting only because of the delay, not for the substantive purpose. The second argument was that the opposition had the adoption of the same tax package as one of the arguments for mistrust of the garment. For what reason did the government union decide to join the matter of trust in the draft law that we are currently discussing?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U536	Thank you. This is a government decision made on a proposal from the Prime Minister. Since the Centre Party has taken a decision to distrust the Prime Minister and a number of tax measures proposed in the drafts to be dealt with today are also coming up with a specific draft, linked to the government's vision of future tax measures, the government considered that it would be best to link the Government's draft to mistrust of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U537	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U538	Thank you. I have noticed here today that representatives of the coalition have generally not come from the Riigikogu to defend either one of your previously submitted drafts or the Prime Minister. Are you sure your coalition partners are coming to support you?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U539	Thank you. We will see it in a few minutes when the real voting procedure begins. Then we will see whether the measures that I have presented to you here today will be supported, and on which I think they will be able to bring additional people to the labour market, people on low wages will have additional incentives to participate in the labour market, and repayment will be made in the sector most affected, i.e. in the low-paid sector. I do not rule out that this could be one such draft over a long period of time, with 100% of Parliament's support. I will not rule out this by waiting for the vote to begin in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U540	Thank you. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U541	Then there will be a whole new situation, then it will be possible to abuse the system and employ people in other ways, as has been mentioned, and new people will also come into the labour market. This amount could then not be EUR 38 million, but EUR 68 million or EUR 48 million. We don't know anything about this today, but we finally see new tax increases coming to this hall very quickly. I would like to hope that the beautiful and wonderful promise that was made during the IRL elections will not become a scheme that will provoke disappointment, a scheme that people abuse in order to deceive more money out of the country. I think that one day we will reach the point that our tax system will be equal, simple and fair for all subjects, people will not have to calculate, as in the American example here, by using a very complex scheme, what kind of money will be paid into their account. In America, without a financial advisor, you can't figure out what your income is that you get on the account. I think that the system proposed by the Centre Party meets all the requirements and objectives announced by the Minister in this Chamber. Indeed, if we started using a graduated income tax system, whose first degree is acceptable to low-paid people and this percentage is low, then perhaps the system would not be so expensive and complicated and would really meet all the objectives that the Minister set out here. Thank you. Until the right decisions are made!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U542	Thank you. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U543	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I would also have liked to say good minister. So we must first regret that the Minister of Finance does not consider it important to listen to speeches on his own protected draft. Let's hope the Minister had a good reason why he hurried away from the hall. But I'm coming to my speech now. Of course, the number of low-paid and poor-paid people, including those with higher education, is significant. The search for solutions to unravel the problem we are facing is, of course, critical. Our task is to promote the livelihood of the Estonian people and reduce poverty, i.e. to create an environment in which people can cope and do not need state transfers of money, because the best protection against poverty is undoubtedly good education and work. Today's labour market is diverse. There are also many simple, routine and low-paid jobs in addition to those in need of a smart worker and with high pay. This is complemented by forms of employment such as forced part-time work or self-employment. The result is low wages. The bill on our table today is unfortunately a half-solution that will not solve the problem of low-wage earners in any way. Once a year, the state will pay support to increase people's income, but people who are in poverty need help every month, not once a year, as Santa Claus does. We are creating a complex and costly refund system, which will cost around EUR 2 million in preparation over the next two years. In addition, new jobs will be created, even though the government has made it a priority to reduce the number of employees in the public sector. In a speech here in the Riigikogu at 3 a.m. on 3 June, I brought out the draft five bottlenecks. I am not going to repeat them all, but I am going to focus on one of the most important bottlenecks in my opinion. That is, not all low-wage earners receive a refund. This has led to the greatest criticism of the draft. A person who is at least 18 years of age, works full time and has done so for at least six months in the previous calendar year can apply for the allowance. However, in the years following the economic crisis, the number of workers in particular need of state aid and working part-time has increased. The share of part-time employees in Estonia is relatively small, within the limit of about 10%. This shows that, in fact, flexible forms of work are not common but, at the same time, a large number of Estonians working on flexible forms of work or part-time work are the most vulnerable. In order to promote flexible forms of work, the state does not take any steps, but rather reduces these opportunities all the time. Young people and pensioners are relatively more part-time workers. About 20% of people under the age of 25 work part-time. It is important to understand that part-time work often leads to underemployment, I mean people who, if possible, would have liked to work with greater burdens. Compared to the first reading, the bill has, of course, improved a little, but not with the support of the government, but with the support of the Riigikogu. On the proposal of the Social Committee, the possibility of a disability pensioner working part-time is added. It is surprising that the government sends a bill to the Riigikogu, which is a screaming contradiction to the country's other strategic activities, such as the work capacity reform. So the Committee on Social Affairs at least corrected this, the failure that the government missed. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U544	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U545	There is no way to support the idea of the draft to turn off part-time working people. These are people who have failed to find full-time jobs in their area of residence. There are few jobs in the outskirts and the person is satisfied if he gets a part-time job close to home. The rest of the income comes either from the cultivation of land or from the harvesting of forest produce. These are also people who are happy to be able to work part - time, such as informal carers and parents of young children. On the other hand, there are people who have to work part-time in rural areas and are underemployed, because employers do not maintain good full-time places to achieve cost-effectiveness. This is not just a concern for people working in the private sector. I know examples that in recent years quite a lot of rural libraries have had to work part-time because there are few residents and therefore few readers, the municipality is unable and unwilling to raise the employee's salary and solves the situation so that the salary remains the same, but the person has to work at least less. Thus, the draft that we are about to vote on is an artificial monster, which, as if, is intended to receive a tick letter, which means a cost of nearly EUR 40 million a year. Its real impact is doubtful, it is disappointing for hundreds and thousands of people in Estonia, because when they receive a small salary, they often find themselves in a situation where, due to a formal reason - often forced part-time - even this low-wage tax exemption cannot be obtained. After all, it does not matter at all whether a person is part - time or full - time in employment, what matters is the earnings earned. In fact, the income that a person declares for a year of work should be taken into account. I believe that most of the people in this Chamber understand that in reality low-paid people can only be helped if the tax-free minimum is substantially increased, for example, to EUR 400 per month. That would be real help. We are of the opinion that, in the proposed form, we cannot support the draft. It is an artificial scheme that does not allow the target to be achieved, i.e. a better livelihood for low-wage earners, but rather makes people more disappointed. I believe that the majority of the people in the Chamber do not understand the merits of the draft. I also know that coalition partners adhere to the agreement and vote in favour of the bill, although among themselves it is considered a rotten egg bill. Therefore, let us take time off and find a better way to really help low-wage earners, because haste is not justified in any way, and later reversal may be even more difficult than pulling the emergency brake now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U546	Thank you. Andres Herkel, speaking from the floor? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U547	Thank you, Mr President. I have a procedural question because the speaker referred to this issue. If the draft relates to the question of trusting the government, then the good tone provides for the government's representative to be in the Chamber. Monika Haukanõm spoke quite long and meaningfully, but during this time the minister did not make it to the hall. Maybe you can explain what's happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U548	By law, the Minister does not have to be in this Chamber. But we have good practice, so I hope that if the minister is in the house, he'll be here. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U549	Mr President! During the debate on the previous item, I asked for help. I am very grateful to everyone who came to my aid immediately. First the director of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu came and helped me, and then several members of the Riigikogu offered the same assistance in this Chamber. What was even more pleasant was that while I was reading from the computer, I saw that a number of people who had followed the Riigikogu session online gave me the same answer. So I got it. This was a draft act 843, which was initiated by the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu on 29 January. a and the name of which is the draft law supplementing the Tax Administration Act. It was adopted in the same form as it was initiated. The Tax Administration Act was supplemented by § 41, the text of which reads: 'The tax law, as well as the adoption and entry into force of this amendment, must normally remain between at least six months. The provision does not apply in the case of tax law which favours a taxable person and its amendment. ' Here's a few things you might know. Firstly, obviously this change in the search for the Internet did not come out because the law has not yet entered into force. It will only officially enter into force on 1 July, so I couldn't have found it in any way. The second question is what its legal meaning is. It has to be said that it does not have any legal meaning, it does not create any norm, but it is simply a declaration of goodwill. In fact, the laws adopted by the Riigikogu are legally absolutely equivalent, even if they stipulate differently how many votes in favour must be. This means that the later law repeals all previous laws which contain some other regulation on this matter. In the old days, lawyers were the people who knew what was really going on. Today, if everything is online and everyone is their own legal advisor, it is generally reasonable to cancel all previous versions of the law. But this is, of course, a declaration of goodwill. Personally, it seems very strange to me, because the volume of the texts of national laws should be kept to the minimum necessary and not to write the expressions of goodwill there. It should be done differently. There is no need for non-regulatory and meaningless laws such as the cohabitation law adopted during the previous term, which at least currently do not have any application whatsoever. But if the Committee on Monetary Affairs in its time really meant that it would introduce something, with this six-month rule, then it must quite certainly be confirmed that it does not say anything. Although this may not be nice, even if, on the last day of the meeting of the old year, an amendment to the Tax Act will be introduced, which will enter into force on 1 January, it is also perfectly permissible if the majority of the Riigikogu considers it necessary for the interests of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U550	Thank you. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U551	Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, It is good that the Minister has now come here to listen to our debate. I was a little nervous, I thought he was gone and he didn't want to listen to us, because he's already talked about this law in a lot of different groups and heard a lot of opinions. After all, it is usually spoken in the hearing of wise people, and wise people are able to come up with all kinds of questions about schemes, how a group of workers can be designed, and how a group of workers can be caught between gears. In general, there are a lot and a lot of questions in this scheme. But, of course, it is to be welcomed that the concept is changing. If government departments have so far been completely allergic to progressive income tax, the proposed refund mechanism is the level of hidden or disguised tax. This means that there will be no access to progressive income tax. Europe as a whole is living with progressive income tax. The Estonian people will vote for it with their feet. After all, they are fleeing from Estonia to where there is progressive income tax, because it is reasonable and there is no escape from it. What's the big deal? I welcome the fact that the thought has begun to move. I am quite sure that someday there will be one lower step, say, from the minimum wage to 600 or 700 euros, these levels can be agreed, perhaps a similar Moving mechanism for higher wages will be made, and later the understanding that there should be a complete transparency and certainty in the level of income tax with a fixed amount will be realised. It's all going to happen. I would like to welcome this change of thinking from this remote control today and call for no vote in favour of this present monster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U552	We will proceed with today's agenda: Second reading of the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. The rapporteur is Minister of Social Affairs Margus Tsahkna. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U553	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U554	Excuse me, Minister of Social Protection!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U555	Dear Riigikogu! On 25 May 2015, the Government of the Republic initiated a draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act and related amendments to other laws. The first reading of the draft decision took place on 3 June. On the proposal of the Social Committee, the President of the Riigikogu set the deadline for amendments at 4 p.m. on 5 June. No amendments were tabled within this deadline. The Committee on Social Affairs met in two sittings on 8 and 9 June to prepare the draft law for 38 discussions and 2nd and 3rd readings. The meetings were attended by Katre Pall, the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, who is Head of the Ministry's Social Security Department. At its meeting on 2 June, the Committee on Social Affairs decided to put the draft for second reading on the agenda for the plenary session on 10 June. At its meeting on 9 June, the Commission decided to propose the completion of the second reading of the draft. At the same meeting, the Commission approved the draft second reading procedural documents. The Committee on Social Affairs also decided to make a proposal for a draft to be submitted to the third reading when the second reading of the draft is closed and to be put to the final vote. All the decisions were consensual. The bill has undergone linguistic editing. On 10 June the Government of the Republic decided to link the adoption of the draft submitted to the Riigikogu with the issue of government trust before the second reading. § 98 of the Constitution gives the Government of the Republic the opportunity to link the adoption of the draft submitted by it to the Riigikogu with a question of trust. Before the second reading, the procedure for discussing a draft relating to a trust issue is governed by § 137 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs of the Riigikogu. The powers of the commission, in this case the Social Affairs Committee, will end from the moment of the merger, and the Government of the Republic will draw up the documents necessary for the second reading. The Government of the Republic also examined and decided on the amendment received. The Social Affairs Committee tabled by consensus one technical amendment to the norm, specifying the amendment order set out in subsection 1 (7) of the draft. According to the draft law, § 92 is added to the Act, but the amendment order does not specify the chapter to which the paragraph is added. The amendment specifies that the new § 92 will be added to Chapter 2 of the Act, i.e. it will deal with monthly family allowances. This is a technical amendment to the norm, which the Government of the Republic takes full account of. Pursuant to § 137 (7) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, the final vote on the draft is to take place at the Riigikogu's supplementary session on 15 June 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U556	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U557	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, For the sake of the verbatim report and also for the audiences, perhaps you will explain what grants will be added and when it will enter into force? When will the child benefit be added and when will the family benefit come?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U558	Thank you. Yes, the content of this draft is very important and very positive. The first half of this bill concerns universal child support for the first and second children. According to the draft, child benefit will increase to EUR 50 in 2016, to EUR 55 in 2017 and to EUR 60 in 2018. As a new type of family allowances, the support of a family rich in children is enforced. It is intended for families with three or more children. The amount of this allowance shall be EUR 200 per month. For families with seven or more children, a large family allowance will be added and they will receive EUR 370 per month. The allowance for a family rich in children is therefore added to the already existing children's allowance. At present, every child in families with three or more children receives EUR 100 per month from the third child. So all in all, it is a good bill that helps to improve the economic situation of families with three or more children in particular and perhaps motivates and encourages people to have more children.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U559	Thank you, good questioner! I haven't thought about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U560	Thank you. I've got calculations of how much we give to families and children with children.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U561	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U562	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U563	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You were relatively brief in your presentation today. Would you give a more detailed and exhaustive explanation as to why even child benefit is much better than needs-based child benefit?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U564	Thank you. We have both systems. Child benefit, i.e. universal child benefit, is to a large extent intended to combat child poverty and a concrete measure is also a result of the Coalition Agreement. The needs-based child benefit is targeted at those families and children who actually have this need. This system exists in the Republic of Estonia and I hope that it will be used more and more. Much also depends on whether there are sufficient real support resources to motivate people to apply for child support on a needs-based basis. What is very close to my heart and for which I would like to thank you if this vote goes well here today is that we now have the support of a family rich in children for the first time as a new type of family allowances. A family with three or more children is considered a child-rich family in Estonia. This is the limit from which, according to population scientists, population regeneration begins. For me, this issue has been close to my heart for years, and I am glad that we are beginning to encourage people to have third and more children with this support.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U565	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U566	Thank you. Good minister! I assure you that, in any case, this bill will be adopted today. You can be happy. It is very positive that this bill provides for an increase in subsidies, but, unfortunately, by raising excise duties and VAT, people are being taken away at the same time. Have there been any calculations of how much you give with one hand and take with the other? If they're made, where can I get to know them?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U567	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister! Here's the question. I mean, clearly, the child is a miracle, is a pleasure, is... I don't know how to put it in words. It's just more than life. But have you ever considered that in certain associations, giving birth to children can become a source of business? Is such a thing foreseen?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U568	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U569	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! If we look at the draft law amending the Family Benefits Act, which is currently at second reading and which is now reaching final reading, we will see that a new definition of a family rich in children has been introduced: there must be three or more children in the family. The next step is seven or more children. Did you discuss in the government that it's a long way from three to seven? Perhaps the steps could be three and more children, then five and more, seven and more, and ten and more children? Perhaps one day we will have many large families and such "stage-by-step" support could help them further?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U570	Thank you, good questioner! Yes, all children are important, no matter how many there are in the family. All these families are rich families in this sense. But behind the policy of the third child is a clear analysis of population scientists and also of our own society. I am taking this opportunity to say that one of the most economically difficult groups in Estonia is families with three or more children, even if both parents are working. We have this situation that if a third child is born into the family, this family is not in all cases, but very often at risk of poverty or below the poverty line. That's what research has shown. So to do so, it makes sense for the state to allocate taxpayers' money to support them, so that these families have greater confidence that they will believe that they will succeed. As for the fact that there are only two levels of benefits, we used to have a large family allowance for families with seven or more children. The logic of the draft is that we did not take this money away from these families, but that it was incorporated into the support of a family rich in children. So there are two steps: the first are families with three or more children, and the second is families that were already receiving large family benefits, that is, families with seven or more children. They maintained this support, and it was incorporated into the support of a family rich in children.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U571	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U572	Thank you. You said that the troubles of children's rich families have been on your mind. In this case, you are aware that families with children are particularly difficult when some children have reached adulthood and go to university or vocational school. The family loses the status of a family rich in children as well as the benefits, but the real costs do not go away. In the case of student benefits, we also actually consider that the family is still supporting its child. As Minister for Social Protection, have you considered the possibility of not excluding children who are still studying from a large family?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U573	Thank you. This is a very topical issue. Yes, children in substitution care, for example, will remain officially affiliated to a substitute home until they graduate. Indeed, this issue also concerns so-called ordinary families, where parents must support their children during their studies even after reaching adulthood. It is simply a question of what the possibilities of the country are.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U574	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U575	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I was hoping you wouldn't say that sentence, but the idea of it spreads like wildfire in Estonia. The sentence was that the third child would start some sort of poverty in our families. Is it scientifically proven, or is it a myth that's being distributed? Maybe it's based on some pretty clueless research? But now we carry this message to social consciousness, human attitudes, and we do not intend to correct it. Knowing a lot of families with more than three children, I dare say that this argument does not apply. Even in our present society, where having a child does not mean income for the family, but expense, it does not apply. Who are the scientists in Estonia who have scientifically proven that this claim is correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U576	Thank you. As I said in my reply, I do not mean all families with three or more children. But when we look at statistics, including statistics from Statistics Estonia, we see that we have three groups of people in society that are in the most difficult economic situation. The first is parents raising a child alone, the second is pensioners living alone, and the third is families with three or more children, where both parents may even exist. It's kind of tough statistics. I can't tell you exactly all the percentages and all the figures. But this statement is also based on a study carried out by the University of Tartu's research team, and it shows that it is precisely economic certainty that people need to make a decision to have third or subsequent children. All of this has to do with very different factors, including our family models. A lot of people break up, and a woman or a man has to consider whether he can handle raising three children alone. In this sense, it is precisely the third child's policy that has a scientific approach that is extremely important, and I am pleased that the draft we are debating today will, when it becomes a law, take a very important step in the necessary direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U577	No further questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U578	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The most important things, however, have not always been the cause of the greatest conflicts and discussions. This has been the case today. The most popular questions, as well as the public's attention, have been the tax package and mistrust of the Prime Minister, but the most important decision today is what is now before us, i.e. increasing child support. While many of the points in the coalition agreement have been argued, and partly rightly so, that these are small, even cosmetic, step-by-step changes, the draft on family allowances is indeed a breakthrough in Estonian family policy, for two reasons. Firstly, it has focused on our society's most undoubtedly burning problem, the demographic crisis. For years, specialists, as well as social democrats, have been talking about the fact that the birth rate has to grow significantly in order to sustain Estonian society. Studies confirm that securing a sense of financial security for families is key to increasing the birth rate. After all, we know that our families would like about twice as many children as they actually have, and in order to bridge the gap between what they want and what they really want, there is certainly a need for state support. Another reason why this decision is extremely important is that the measures proposed by the government coalition to support children and families are exceptionally ambitious as a solution. I am thinking, apart from today's decision, of the bill for the creation of a living fund that will later arrive in this hall and, for example, of a circle of interest support. A further EUR 100 million will be contributed to children over four years. When the Social Democrats came to government in 2014, we set a ten-year target of raising child support at EUR 19 to EUR 60. According to this draft, this will be achieved by 2019. At the same time, as the previous speaker pointed out, the support of the third and more children will be increased, which will undoubtedly also have a positive demographic impact. These decisions, in turn, have two important effects. Firstly, the state is taking a very necessary step to increase natural growth. Secondly, these measures will result in a significant reduction in the number of children at risk of poverty, as well as in the number of children at risk of poverty. For example, the proportion of children living in deep poverty is more than double: from 7.2% to 3.4%. The share of absolute poverty is reduced by nearly a third: from 10% to 7%. In addition, growth in family benefits helps to prevent poverty and increases the ability of families to contribute to the education and health of children. This has also been confirmed by studies that if family benefits grow, spending on children will be increased in poorer families, while in wealthier families there will be an increase in the probability of the next child being born. So both demographic and social impacts exist. Mr Ammas asked the previous speaker about needs-based child benefits. Let it be said that it is a fact that in those countries with universal child benefits, the proportion of children in poverty is lower. According to studies conducted by the European Commission, the universal system is effective in preventing and alleviating child poverty, especially given the small cost of social protection in Estonia compared to other European countries. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U579	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U580	It is no secret that both the Reform Party and the IRL and apparently our colleague, Ammas, have been against universal child support, questioning the effectiveness of this family policy solution. In this context, I would certainly recommend getting acquainted with a large number of Estonian and international studies, which clearly state the opposite. Let's go over two facts here. Firstly, the development plan for children and families approved by the Government of the Republic, which is the basic document of Estonian family policy, says that it is not appropriate to abolish universal family benefits, because in order to receive need-based support, the family should first fall into poverty, then go to a social worker and then receive support for helping out of poverty. Instead, family policy is wise to prevent family poverty, and that is what universal child support does. Secondly, studies have shown that the greatest obstacle to having children is the lack of economic security. Not poverty, but a lack of economic security. It is noteworthy that this reason is also considered important by those earning an average or much higher salary. Therefore, it is not enough to address the problem of deep poverty alone; it is necessary to give families a much wider sense of confidence that more children will be born in Estonia. To conclude, triple child support for social democrats is certainly a big job win, but it is not important here. What is important is that, with today's decision, we are taking the very necessary step to combat child poverty and, in the long term, to raise the child. We will certainly not see these positive changes tomorrow, probably not in a year's time, but big changes will take longer. And it takes time to understand the big changes. I believe that one day our coalition partners will also understand that universal child support is the basis of a Nordic and wise family policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U581	Thank you. Fruit Savisaar-Toomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U582	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Riigikogu! The decline in the population of Estonia will hardly come as news to anyone. That's the saddest part. It is a knowledge that is so long ago that we have accepted it, but this approach is wrong. It is our people who carry on our precious culture, and neither of them should perish in inaction, letting go. Such a silent agreement cannot and must not be signed. This is a problem for which solutions need to be sought and found, while understanding that no solution is too costly here. It does not have to be a mathematician to realise that families with three or more children are the ones who can guarantee the sustainability of our people. We are not just talking here about numbers and calculations within ten limits; we are talking about a change in mentality in society at large. A child - rich family could and should be our new daily and regular family model. After all, the truth can be repeated from the results of studies that confirm that a third child is not born in many families for economic reasons, but why? It is enough to open our eyes and see the image of our daily life in a family rich in children. In many cases, this is inextricably linked to economic difficulties. Kids are expensive, in every way. Our people want and dare to have more children if they have a signal from the state that they are standing up for them and behind them. Posters or advertising are not enough to change society's understanding, and there must be courage and political will to make a real financial contribution. Our goal should be to create a picture of a family rich in children as a happy and confident living family and to remove potential economic difficulties from that image. A caring parent wants the best for his children. So it is understandable that more children are born into families with confidence. Confidence in the future, as well as confidence that the standard of living of the first and the second child and the whole family as a whole will not suffer if another child is born. The birth of a new child must bring joy, not uncertainty about the future. The birth of a child to the family should not mean that his older brother or sister is not attending classes and classes. By increasing significantly the state's child support, we are producing the same confidence that is a prerequisite for families rich in children as a foundation for a new understanding. From now on, we will consider a family of at least three children to be a child - rich family. This will significantly broaden the range of potential beneficiaries. With this draft, or bill 38, we will raise child benefit for the first and second children in 2016 to EUR 50, from 2018 to EUR 55 and from 2019 to EUR 60. The third child's allowance will not change, up to EUR 100. But now the most important thing. We are creating a completely new model to support families with children's wealth. When we define families with three or more children as many children, they will benefit from a family rich in children. This means that a family raising between three and six children will receive an additional allowance of EUR 200 per child and EUR 300 for seven or more children. This will replace the existing allowance for a family with seven or more children. Today, the generation of the 1990s, which is quite small in number, is still starting to arrive at family creation. We can conclude from this that there will be no greater growth in the coming years, especially in the absence of national measures. Today, for example, there are 9240 women aged 30 years, but in ten years they are estimated to be only 6749 or almost 30% less. If we add other influences to it - globalisation, travel, learning, the image of today's woman as a careerwoman - is not very beautiful. By not reacting now, we are rolling the problem into a larger form for the future generation. This is certainly not the cheapest bill, but this is the price of our culture and people. Moreover, costs will only increase if a family with three children is truly a new normality in our society. For that, I believe, we're all willing to pay, whether it's a more expensive cocktail or a tank full of gasoline. Ultimately, I would like to say that I am pleased to support this draft, and I hope that you will be equally happy to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U583	Thank you. Mailis Reps, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U584	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Dear Members of the Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen! 38 SE is certainly a draft that we could have dealt with last week. But first of all, the positive effects of children's benefits. Growth in child benefits is certainly necessary and will give our people a single message that the state cares about families with children. The state already cares about them because we have finally recognised the risk of having families with children falling into poverty. The Minister admitted here today that it is indeed a fact-based view that families with three or more children are often at risk of poverty. Universal child support is one of the most effective measures to combat such poverty. It is embarrassing to admit that there has been a political dispute over child support for ten years without raising it, whether this support, because it is so small, is necessary at all. There's even been a little rehearsal to make it go away. Today we are pleased to note that we have managed to maintain and increase universal child support. The linking of support to poverty would be humiliating, especially for families with children. They should show how and how much they earn and often go out asking for that money. This is why universal child benefit is important. But the Riigikogu must not stop here, neither this nor the next formations. There must not be a situation where the rates adopted as a law today will last again for ten years. Later on, the Riigikogu should consider whether to create indexation, gradual increases, or to try to accompany the increase in the cost of living step by step. We must also constantly develop other measures aimed at children and families with children, whether they are aimed at developing an education of interest, free transport, student homes, school meals, a network of pre-school facilities or other things. The Estonian Centre Party supports, of course, an increase in child benefits. There was no need to withdraw the bill from the ordinary 38 procedure last week. We would certainly have supported the draft last week. Moreover, we have stood and will continue to stand for the rapid and constructive adoption of the drafts on child support, but in accordance with the Riigikogu's law on home and working arrangements. Unfortunately, the Government of the Republic and the Coalition have decided to link the draft to the question of trust in the Government of the Republic instead of the 38 ordinary procedures. And unlike family benefits, we cannot vote in favour of trusting the Government of the Republic. We don't trust the current government. That is why the Estonian Centre Party Group decided today that we will not vote against the draft, but we will not vote in favour of trusting the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U585	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiation. We're done negotiating. In the case of Bill 38, no amendments to § 137 of the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act will be put to the vote. We are going to the final vote. I am voting on the amendment of the State Family Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws in connection with it 38. Please take a stand and vote. 62 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one opposed, with 6 abstentions. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U586	We will move on to the following point: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on land and environmental fees initiated by Riigikogu members Andres Metsoja, Deniss Borodichi, Einar Vallbaum, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Kalvi Tõul, Mati Raidma and Valeri Korb. The rapporteur is Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Environment Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U587	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to introduce you to the draft law amending the Ground and Environmental Charges Act 43. Before we come to what happened between the first reading and the second reading in the lead committee, I will recall with two sentences the content of the draft. The regulation created by the draft will allow companies to adjust the mining rate more promptly, but the average annual volume of the period must remain strictly within the agreed limits. In short, this means that for the annual rate of oil shale mining, the quantity of oil shale to be extracted must not exceed the maximum annual rate permitted by the permit for mining to comply with environmental requirements. Thus, an average of 20 million tonnes per year must have been extracted for seven years. The draft was initiated by members of the Riigikogu Deniss Borodich, Mati Raidma, Andres Metsoja, Einar Vallbaum, Valeri Korb, Kalvi Tõvi and Jevgeni Ossinovski s. a on 25 May 2005. The first reading took place on 9 June when the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 12 noon on 10 June. No amendments were tabled, but two amendments were proposed by the Committee on the Environment. During the period between first and second readings, the draft has been dealt with three times at Commission meetings: 9 June, 10 June, 11 June. Representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Finance, the Estonian Nature Fund, the Estonian Association of Mineral Resources and the Association of Estonian Mining Industries participated in the meeting on 9 June. At this meeting, representatives of ministries and the Association of Estonian Mining Industries expressed their support for the draft. At the same time the representatives of the Estonian Nature Foundation and the Estonian Mineral Resources Association did not support the draft. Their principle is that Estonia should move towards reducing oil shale mining. During the extraordinary meeting held on 10 June, it was decided to propose the inclusion of the second and third readings of the draft 43 on the agenda of additional sittings of the Riigikogu. At its regular meeting on 11 June, the presentation of the Commission's amendments was discussed, with explanations given by a representative of the Ministry of the Environment. I would like to point out that both amendments proposed by the Committee on the Environment were adopted by consensus. The Commission decided by consensus that, when the second reading of the draft would be concluded at the additional meeting to be held on 15 June, it would propose to refer the draft to third reading at the second additional meeting of 15 June and to hold a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U588	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U589	Thank you. Good waitress! I spoke to Silvia Lotman, chairman of the board of the Estonian Nature Foundation this morning. He claimed that the Estonian Association of Environmental Communities Koda and the Estonian Association of Mineral Resources have also sent written problems to the Committee on the Environment, but have not yet received written answers. Why haven't they gotten any answers? How do you justify that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U590	Thank you. Not only with the Estonian Nature Foundation, but also with the Estonian Environmental Association Chamber, the Committee on the Environment is in constant contact. Draft 43 is in its current form in the proceedings. The Committee on the Environment discussed this draft already at the end of the previous term, but it fell out of the procedure in connection with the approaching elections. I stress one thing that needs to be noticed in this draft. During the debate on the previous agenda items, the opposition and the coalition did not cooperate on several occasions. In this draft the initiators are from the Reform Party, the Union of the Fatherland and Res Publica, the Centre Party and the Social Democrats. During the last six months, we have met several times with the Estonian Nature Foundation and all other parties. As chairman of the committee, I fully agree that perhaps in a few decades' term, or perhaps in a 50-year perspective, Estonia really must abandon the oil shale and oil shale industries. However, if we look at the social situation and Estonia's opportunities, this change will bring 400 new jobs to Ida-Virumaa. Extraction of one million tonnes of oil shale generates 450 jobs and brings in €2.4 billion in environmental charges. In this Chamber, several times today, we have been asked why we are only dividing around from one pocket to another. This is a serious draft that really aims to increase our national budget. I hope you will support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U591	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U592	Good President! Good waitress! Last week, the Vice Rector for Development of the University of Tartu, Erik Puura, wrote in Postimees, that the country had little research into the impact of the oil shale industry on human health and the environment. My first question is why. And the second question is whether, in your view, more in-depth environmental studies should not be carried out before allowing the ex post extraction of oil shale less than the extraction rate in previous years, which will actually increase mining capacity in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U593	Thank you. Once again, the point that passes through the draft is that the annual volume of mining must not exceed 20 million tonnes as an average of seven years. Yes, I think it is reasonable to use Estonian oil shale as our common wealth in the best way possible. This means that it is reasonable to mine it if we benefit as much as possible from this world market price. If there are years when, purely because of weather conditions, it is not reasonable to mine oil shale, then we do not mine. We view Estonian oil shale as a good wine in the basement, which we use when it is reasonable and if it is necessary. This reasoning is not new; it has been based on peat extraction, for example, for years. The limit, i.e. 20 million tonnes on average, remains the same, but the years are different. If it is necessary for the oil shale industry to mine oil shale, we will mine and not artificially create obstacles and restrictions for this industry.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U594	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U595	Thank you, manager. Mr President of the Commission. I'm trying to hit the politics of this government coalition, but it's getting harder and harder and harder. At the same time, you are raising the rate of excise duty on oil shale fuel oil, because it is a polluting activity and, according to your policy, they should be increased by excise duty. On the other hand, at the same time, you are increasing mining capacity. How do these two things come together? Why don't you explain in a simple, understandable way?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U596	Thank you. I will explain this principle once again. We cannot really talk about increasing mining capacity. The volume may be larger in one year and smaller in the following year. In Estonian, this principle is characterized by the word 'flexibility'. The seven-year average must remain within the agreed volume of 20 million tonnes per year. The maximum annual rate for which a permit can be granted is 25 million tonnes. This means that 15 million tonnes may be extracted in the following year or the following year, for example. It is wrong to talk about increasing mining capacity. It may be bigger one year, but it's gonna shrink just as much next year. And I repeat, this is not just a coalition bill. The representatives of the Centre Party have also put their hands on it and have written their good thoughts here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U597	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U598	Thank you. Good waitress! You're doing some demagoguery. If there is a major increase in mining volume in one year, it will undoubtedly have a very significant environmental impact. My question is as follows. Please present in more detail this new job creation plan, which is undoubtedly a very positive aspect of this draft. When will these jobs be created and how long will they last?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U599	Thank you. In the whole oil shale and energy sector, what matters is certainly what is happening on the world market. But these jobs will be created within the next year at the latest if you support this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U600	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U601	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Are you aware of the stage of completion of the new oil shale mining development plan for 2016 and beyond? If you are aware, is the content of this development plan and the content of the draft we are currently discussing in any way consistent? Would it not make more sense to approve the development plan first and then adopt the pending draft as a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U602	Thank you. Of course, I am aware of how far this development plan is now being developed in the ministry. As I emphasised in my report, although eight members of the Riigikogu have submitted this draft, it has been produced in constant cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment. And the representative of the Ministry of the Environment made it clear that the development plan takes account of this draft. Of course, according to the Coalition Agreement too, there are plans to change the accounting of environmental charges in the coming years, i.e. to literally switch to taxing our most important mineral resources due to world market prices. The aim is to maximise the benefit to the Estonian state of extracting oil shale from the ground. The short answer is: yes, the draft takes account of the development plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U603	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U604	Thank you. Good chairman of the committee! Those are some pretty interesting statements you've been making here. It's like there's no additional mining. I read in the explanatory memorandum that on average 24 million tonnes have not been extracted between 2009 and 2014 and will now be mined. Isn't that an extra 24 million tonnes? It's like falling off the moon, isn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U605	Thank you. I repeat once again: the volume can fluctuate over the years. In recent years, an average of 14 to 15 million tonnes per year has been extracted. The limit is 20 million tonnes. It is possible that in one year, if it is favoured by the world market and the environment, more mining will take place, but the average volume will not grow over the seven-year period. It doesn't matter what order we add up the numbers, the sum of the amounts of mining will not increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U606	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U607	Good President! Good waitress! I still find it completely incomprehensible that this measure will create new jobs. If mining volumes start to commute according to the world oil market, will the number of jobs start to commute in the same way? If 25 million are mined one year, 15 million next year, will they be released next year, I don't know how many hundred workers will be fired again and left waiting for a better oil price?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U608	Thank you. Indeed, as I also answered the question on the development plan, the first is to link environmental charges to world market prices. If the world market price falls, the level of environmental charges will decrease and vice versa. This should ensure that 450 jobs remain year after year, regardless of world market prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U609	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U610	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Waitress! I will clarify my previous question. You said that the development plan would take this draft into account. Should it not be the opposite that the draft takes account of the development plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U611	Thank you. Linguistically correct specification, but by the end of the day the content will remain the same. These documents are consistent with each other and work has been carried out in parallel with each other. Thanks for the clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U612	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U613	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr President of the Commission. I didn't quite understand the answer you gave Arthur Talvik. When you started your report, the emphasis was on job creation. Then you said that jobs would be created and lost, but then you put the emphasis on environmental charges. What's more important? You sell people like new jobs, but you really hope to get more environmental fees? What's the primary? What's the lucky idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U614	Thank you. The interesting idea is that the Republic of Estonia and the people of Estonia would benefit as much as possible from their most important mineral resources. This can be achieved by making mining more flexible. As expressed in the language of the figures, there is such a link that one million tonnes of oil shale mining and processing are occupied by 450 people and EUR 2.4 billion is collected in the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U615	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U616	Thank you. I'll keep asking. Are fixed - term employment contracts, piecework contracts, or what are they called when you take a person to work and maybe fire him after a while?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U617	These jobs are filled according to the laws in force in Estonia. However, I do not think that, within the framework of this draft law amending the Ground and Environmental Charges Act, any work contract must be broken down.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U618	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U619	Thank you. Are you familiar with the results of the recent audit carried out by the National Audit Office? The report draws attention to the fact that there is no mechanism, in other words, a fund in which oil shale-producing and processing companies would be obliged to make contributions in the event of the company being liquidated, bankrupted or serious environmental damage. If there were any natural disasters or pollution in the future, the consequences would be eliminated by the money in the fund. So far, if the natural environment is affected in any way, all the related costs will be borne by the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U620	I sincerely thank you for a very good question! Expands the theme and allows you to give a better overview. The Committee on the Environment met representatives of the National Audit Office the week before. The proposal for a fund was not the only one for them; a formula for the calculation of oil shale waste was proposed. Consequently, last week the Committee on the Environment made a consensual appeal to the Ministry of the Environment to remedy the deficiencies mentioned by the National Audit Office as early as this year or at least to report to the Committee on the Environment on what has been done to remedy them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U621	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Let's go to the negotiations. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U622	Mr. President! Good members of the Riigikogu! I am increasingly puzzled by one aspect of the last few days in this Riigikogu, namely good legislative practice. How much has been said in society about not adopting cluster laws, and we are still adopting it. How much has it been said that we will not draft using turbo methods, and we will still do so. Once, in the very first days that I had come to the Riigikogu, an older person explained to me and paid attention to the fact that during the first few months, when the newcomers do not know exactly what is going on here, laws are being pushed through, which is obviously the face of one strong lobby group or even one company. And 43 SE is just an example of how one law is the face of one company. Our problem cannot be that we have to resolve the bad investment decisions of the company's management or to react to the fact that the price of oil has gone down so quickly. This is not a reason for us to make very quick and sudden decisions in such a sensitive area as oil shale mining. I am not going to remind you of the points that I read last time in the chair during the debate on this same bill. However, I would like to call on all new members, if not old, to follow good legislative practice. The latter is not a complex document, there are only eight points, but the draft 43 does not correspond to six of these eight points. Let us not make such unquality laws, especially on such complex issues! In order not to drag you too long a day, I will simply hand over the draft proposal by the Group of the Estonian Free Party 43 to interrupt the procedure at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U623	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U624	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Honestly, I think it's a famous sentence that I didn't intend to speak today, but listening to this debate, I thought it was necessary to clarify a little bit. Then let's start over. Basic criticism: too fast a procedure. Listen, this draft is basically the same wording that we discussed in the previous composition. All the same questions, content remained the same, problem remained the same. If you think that the debate is too fast, if any proposal is being discussed in two successive configurations, I do not know... What's so complicated about that? Let's talk about content. There has been talk about the methodology for calculating the volume of mining. If we have so far had a limit of 20 million a year, 20 million will remain. This volume is an average of seven years. We all know that this sector depends very much on external influences. We can't influence the price of electricity. We can't influence the price of oil. Businesses need flexibility: if the market is favourable, we produce more than the market is not favourable, we produce less. If we are talking about environmental impact, so far the mining permits issued in 2008, if I am not mistaken, have been granted for up to 25 million tonnes of mining. Now we are talking about a limit of 20 million, which is 5 million tonnes less. And the environmental impact as an average of seven years is the effect of less than 20 million tonnes of mining. A little bit of math needs to be cleared up. Now, from the conspiracy theory, this bill has been drawn up for a particular category. That's just as wise to say that you only need maternity allowance for pregnant women. In my opinion, maternity pay must also exist from the point of view of women who are just planning to have a baby. Yes, I admit, and I'm sure everyone knows that Viru Chemistry Group is going to need this law faster because they have two factories standing, hundreds of workers being made redundant. If this law is passed, the first plant will be put to work within 30 days and the second within 30 days. I've been talking to the board. These are real jobs. I have also been in contact with Eesti Energia in relation to the stone oil industry. They said that they could not yet predict what they would do next year, that they would look at the influence of both electricity prices and oil prices in the autumn, and then make decisions. The availability of more mining is available. There is a desire for more flexibility in the calculation process. So talking about a particular company and some lobby group is inappropriate. Of course, you must communicate with the Estonian Nature Foundation, but also communicate with business representatives, do a little more work before you come to this remote control and talk a one-sided story. This sector accounts for 2.9% of Estonia's GDP. Is that too little? It's important to me. As Rainer Vakra said, a great deal has been accused of raising money from one pocket to another. But as Tarmo Tamm suggested: let us focus on how to improve the prosperity of the Estonian economy. In my opinion, the aim of the initiators of the draft is for the Estonian economy to grow in order to create more jobs and income in the budget. This is a concrete example of how the initiators worked to enable the country to earn more. EUR 2.4 million in environmental charges is a considerable amount. And when we talk about the hundreds of jobs that will be created in the coming months, if it doesn't matter to you, it will be for me. Go to Ida-Virumaa and tell people you don't care about this problem and you want to discuss it for years. If it is not important to add three or four well-paid jobs to every additional million tonnes of mining, then the integrity of Ida-Virumaa and Estonia does not matter to you, you do not care about the problems that are there. My proposal is to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U625	Thank you. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U626	Ladies and gentlemen, The previous speaker was a little nervous, I dare to calm him down. The Free Party and the Centre Party will certainly support job creation in Ida-Virumaa and worry about the well-being of Ida-Virumaa. For some reason, jobs have so far disappeared in Ida-Virumaa, and neither the Free Party nor the Centre Party is responsible for this. It's worth looking in the mirror. But this bill is a real example that parliamentarianism in Estonia is declining. This bill marks today the victory of arrogance and a political roller coaster. Yes, economic growth is important, 400 jobs, even temporarily, are important. But the way in which this bill is handled, the way in which it is treated, the way in which it is treated, the way in which it is done, the way in which it is done, the way in which it is done, the way in which it is done, the way in which it is done, the way in which it is done, the way in which it is done, the way in which it is done, the way in which it is done, the way in which it is done, the way in which it is done, the way in which it is done, the way in which it is done, the way in which it is done, the way in which it is done, But it would not save either, because if the political culture is non-existent, the implementation of any theoretically beautiful scheme will not help to increase the credibility of our government administration. This way of handling the bill raises the question of why we need politicians like Kasekamp, for example. We could easily close the Chairs of Political Science and Public Administration. What has been the benefit of numerous inclusion and policy planning seminars? The bill comes to the big hall on 4 June and after 11 days three readings have been completed. The bill has been knocked out. This bill will be adopted today, Deniss. Relax, it's okay to sit down. Some kind of environmental association house, some kind of mineral association, what are these structures? Some kind of nature fund? Their questions about the effects of environmental assessment, on clean drinking water, on groundwater, on junkies. What do they know about the economy?! Have they been to the VKG? Do they know how difficult this company is today? But the PKC factory in Haapsalu, where a few hundred jobs were lost at the same time, why didn't we bring the law to the Riigikogu to protect this company? So the others are having a hard time, huh? Someone in Valgamaa, Saaremaa, Võrumaa, Läänemaa is also difficult. Well, then, let him get the kind of political elevators to make it through three readings in eleven days. This is the health of democracy in Estonia today. Summer has come, the sun shines, who cares about the subject at all. The Chamber of Environmental Associations will receive answers to its questions if this draft is adopted as a law. The teachings of political scientists are still needed, but not in our Estonian practical politics. Keep living in your bubble! Finally. Not 400 jobs are needed in Ida-Viru County, but 10,000 jobs are needed. Where is the in-depth study of Estonian at Ida-Viru kindergartens? The chairman of the Sots was the Minister of Education and promised changes, became chairman of the Sots, also promising changes, but nothing was done. The result is a large round zero. Where are the tax incentives? Instead, you are raising VAT and excise duties on accommodation establishments, lying here with your jobs. You're talking about 400 jobs for one bill, but with the other hand and the other bill, you're taking 1,000 jobs. The current Soviet and Reform Party power union remains in business, suspension, dim and political demagoguery. I understand that the profits of one company in Ida-Virumaa were small. VKG had a profit of EUR 34 million in 2012, EUR 20 million in 2013, EUR 10 million in 2014. Of course, it is a small profit, and it must certainly be increased by law. This is the health of our democracy in Estonia today. All the best, but only after the Reform Party and the Soviets have fallen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U627	There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Let us now examine the amendments. Two proposals have been put forward to amend the draft. The first is the proposal of the lead committee and it has been fully taken into account, the second is the proposal of the lead committee, and it has also been fully taken into account. As the Group of the Estonian Free Party has proposed to interrupt the second reading of the draft 43, we will proceed to the vote. I shall put to the vote the second reading of the draft proposal by the Estonian Free Party to interrupt. Please take a stand and vote. 14 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour with 56 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Second reading is complete. Thank you, colleagues. Today's agenda has been exhausted and the supplementary session closed. I would remind you that in an hour the second additional session of the Riigikogu will begin right here. So we meet at 11:19 p.m. Closure of the sitting at 10.20 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U628	Good evening, good fellows. Dear Riigikogu, we will start an additional session of the first session of the Riigikogu on Monday 15 June at 23.19 a.m. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts. Dear colleagues, you are welcome to submit drafts and inquiries! Arthur Talvik, would you like to hand over on the spot or come to the remote? Come to the remote. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U629	Late night, I left my glasses behind, but okay. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U630	Get the glasses, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U631	We have an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kristen Michal. This is about the situation of the micro-producers of renewable energy, but I am not going to read this difficult story to you. [[Laughing. Laughter in the hall.]] In short, the principle is, I'll make it clear to you just don't make you laugh! just that if the micro-producers... [[Laughing. Laughter in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U632	Good waitress, I'm coming to help you. Report an inquiry...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U633	In short, we have this question. Micro-producers produce electricity and when they sell it to the grid, they are paid for it by a coefficient of 0,6, i.e. the electricity they produce. In short, if they have produced 951 megawatt-hours, they will be paid for 675 megawatt-hours. 30% goes somewhere. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Eight members of the Riigikogu have asked Michal about four questions. Since it's too late at night, I'm not going to read you these difficult questions. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U634	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted this fine inquiry. According to our Home and Working Procedures Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further processing. As far as I'm concerned, we're going to do a presence check. At the Riigikogu's additional session, the Riigikogu has a quorum if more than half of the Riigikogu's membership is present ( § 76 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act). Good fellows, please, let's do the presence check! 95 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 6. It is necessary to approve the agenda for the additional sitting. The agenda has been distributed on your tables. I shall put to the vote the agenda for the additional sitting, which began at 23:19 p.m. on Monday 15 June. Please take a stand and vote. The agenda has received the support of a convincing majority: 70 members of the Riigikogu are in favour, 14 against and 4 abstentions. So the agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U635	Let's start working on the agenda items. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No, I don't. So we can start preparing the final vote. I will put draft 15 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 92 members of the Riigikogu and 2 against, with no abstentions. The draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds initiated by the Government of the Republic 15 has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U636	Let's move on to the second item. The third reading of the draft law amending the law on land and environmental fees initiated by members of the Riigikogu Andres Metsoja, Deniss Borodichi, Einar Vallbaum, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Kalvi Tõud, Mati Raidma and Valeri Korb begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 43 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 62 members of the Riigikogu and 11 against, with no abstentions. The draft law on the amendment of the Land and Environmental Charges Act, initiated by Riigikogu members Andres Metsoja, Deniss Borodichi, Einar Vallbaum, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Kalvi Tõud, Mati Raidma and Valeri Korb, 43 has been adopted as a law. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U637	Let's move on to the third item. The first reading of the draft law amending the law on collective labour dispute resolution initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask Rannar Vassilyev, Minister of Health and Labour of the Riigikogu, for a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U638	Hello, honourable Riigikogu. The initiation of a draft law amending the law on collective labour dispute resolution, one can say, is due to two topical issues: a support strike and a national conciliator. Under the current regulation, the employee representative, association or association is obliged to notify the proposed subsidy strike in writing to the employer, employers' association or association and local government in advance for at least three days. The Chancellor of Justice has repeatedly drawn attention to the fact that the three-day deadline is unreasonable in violating the freedom to conduct a business. In its judgment of 5 March 2015, the Supreme Court supported the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice and found that § 18 (3) of the Act on collective labour dispute resolution, which sets the term of notice of a grant strike, is incompatible with the Constitution. The Supreme Court's decision will enter into force on 5 July 2015. The draft extends the period of notice from the grant strike to five working days. In its judgment, the Supreme Court does not provide clear guidance to the legislator as to how long the period of notice of the grant strike should be in order to comply with the Constitution. The Chancellor of Justice stated in his opinion on the draft law on collective agreement and collective labour dispute resolution, which was dealt with by the previous Riigikogu and which, due to the elections, fell out of the procedure that he has no reason to believe that a minimum period of five working days could or should be contrary to the Constitution. Trade unions and employers' representatives have accepted the proposed period of notice in their feedback. The second issue is the national mediator. The amendment of the provisions on the selection of the national conciliator is primarily due to the fact that, under the current regulation, it has not been possible for years to appoint a national conciliator. According to the current regulation, the conciliator is approved by the Government of the Republic on the basis of a joint agreement between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Confederations of Employers and Workers. For years, however, the Confederations of Employers and Trade Unions have not reached an agreement in the person of the conciliator. The role of the national conciliator has been exercised for the fifth year by the Acting Party. At present, there is no possibility to name a new performer if necessary. There is therefore a need for effective regulation to select and appoint a national mediator. Moreover, there is a non-regulated situation in which a national conciliator is temporarily unable to perform his or her duties. This, too, is now regulated by the draft law. When appointing a national conciliator, it is envisaged as a solution that if employers' and trade union federations do not reach an agreement among themselves, the Ministry of Social Affairs will organise a competition to fill the position of a national conciliator. However, in a situation where, for any reason, for example because of illness or for any other reason, a national conciliator cannot carry out his duties, the conciliation procedure would still be ensured, the institution of the Deputy Advisor-Conciliator of the State will be introduced into the law and the claims will be furnished to that person, as well as the rights that the Deputy Advisor has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U639	Thank you very much, good waitress. However, there is at least one question for you. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U640	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The draft law amending the law on collective labour dispute resolution provides for a public competition to find a national conciliator in the event that employers and trade unions fail to reach an agreement within the deadline to select an appropriate candidate. Can you appreciate how great the urge for this post and this competition could be if such a situation arises? How popular could this position be?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U641	Thank you. On the basis of the principle that the criterion of truth is practice, I cannot answer because there has been no such practice so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U642	Good waitress, you cannot leave the Riigikogu Chair because there are still serious questions about the draft 52. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U643	Thank you. Dear Minister, You have had so little unfairly before the Riigikogu, which is why I am now asking you so that you can open up more to the Riigikogu. Would you like to comment? For five years, instead of being a national conciliator, it has been an actress. How has this still been possible? Question two. You were talking about support strike. We also have regular strikes and warning strikes. Do you think we have enough types of strike or could there be more?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U644	Thank you. For five years there has been an actress. How has that been possible? First of all, the Actor's very good health. He has been eager to carry out his duties for five years and, I dare say, very well. There is no reason that he should have ceased his duties and retired, for example. This has made it possible for five years to have been a performer of these tasks. If the situation had been different, what could be denied here could have arisen since 13 June 2012 when the Civil Service Act was amended, a pretty critical situation in which the performance of the duties of the national conciliator could have been, to put it mildly, difficult. But as far as strikes and their number are concerned, I think there are plenty of them in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U645	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U646	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! By judgment of 5 March, the Supreme Court has stated that the deadline for notice of the grant strike, three days, is contrary to the Constitution. Right now, we're writing in the bill that this deadline could be five days. How do you think that five days could be enough, or could you think about extending that time?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U647	Five days is a deadline against which neither employers nor employees, let us say, have protested. It is not a very big secret that there is probably no applause for something like a support strike among employers. But now the term is three days, which the Supreme Court has declared to be in breach of the Constitution, and five days is a bit longer than that, so they have agreed to it. As I mentioned in the introductory part, the Chancellor of Justice has, indeed, said about the draft law dealt with in the previous Riigikogu, that he does not see a conflict with the Constitution for five days. So I think five days is quite enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U648	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U649	Thank you. Dear Minister, The national mediator deals with employers and employees. What do you think if he were to have the task of reconciling political parties and organising their relations by law, would this contribute to the progress of our political culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U650	I think a better place to reconcile parties could be this hall. All these speeches and negotiations, by nature, are designed to ensure that, if a common position has not been reached, it is possible to express their views on this platform within 5+3 minutes and to hope that, during the negotiations, the differences of opinion will either be reduced or resolved, but if the negotiations do not succeed, then, of course, the differences of opinion will remain. However, I would certainly leave the reconciliation of the parties within the framework of this hall and perhaps also of the Government of the Republic, and certainly also during the election period, because, what is to be denied here, not all parties tend to enter this hall or the House of Stenbock. I think that the formats by which parties can express their differences and that it is possible to reconcile them in one form or another are good enough in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U651	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Vilja Savisaar-Toomasti, Member of the Social Committee of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U652	Mr. Vice President! Good Riigikogu! The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law on collective labour dispute resolution at its meeting on 11 June. At this meeting, the draft was presented by Rannar Vassilyev, Minister of Health and Labour, and Egle Käärats, Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Since so many speeches have been made in this Chamber today, I am not going to go over the same story as the Minister has already spoken, because the presentation presented by the Commission had the same content. I think that at second reading we will be able to go further on this draft. At this late hour, I will bring up the procedural decisions taken by the Committee on Social Affairs at its meeting on 11 June. It was decided to propose that the draft law amending the Act amending the Act on collective labour dispute be included on the agenda of the additional sitting of the Riigikogu on Monday 15 June 2015, to propose the termination of the first reading, to propose the deadline for submitting amendments to 31 August 2015 at 12:00, to appoint Vilja Savisaar-Toomas, member of the Social Committee as rapporteur and to send the draft to the second reading when the first reading is completed by 16 September 2015. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-15_U653	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft 52. 1 p.m. on August 31st The first reading is closed and the third item is also closed. Dear colleagues, I would like to thank you sincerely for the two additional sessions of the XIII Spring session. I wish you strength in our work for the people of Estonia and Estonia! Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 11.38 p.m.
