ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-14_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Good morning. We will begin the sixth Thursday session of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Please, Mikhail Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-14_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Centre Party Group, I would like to address an inquiry to the Prime Minister. The question concerns the construction of LNG terminal and Balticconnector in Finland and across the Gulf of Finland. As we all know, about six months ago, the Prime Minister of Finland and Estonia agreed to establish an LNG terminal on Finnish territory. This decision was quite surprising to the whole of society, because, as we know, the best place for LNG terminal...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-14_U3	Dear waitress, I'm sorry. Good fellows, there's too much noise in the hall. I ask you to respect the waitress and those members of the Riigikogu who wish to listen! Thank you! Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-14_U4	Thank you, Mr President. Since this agreement was made, it has been six months, but unfortunately we have not heard any positive news of it. During this period, it also became clear that the construction of the LNG terminal in Finland poses problems as navigation in the Gulf of Finland is difficult in winter. In addition, there is a high risk that the construction of LNG terminal on Finnish territory will increase the price of gas currently sold by Russia to Finland in Finland. We are talking about the fact that it is very possible that Finland is not interested in building a LNG terminal on Finnish territory at all. On this subject, we are asking the Prime Minister six questions. We hope to have positive and comprehensive answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-14_U5	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-14_U6	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-14_U7	I'm sure we'll welcome the spy!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-14_U8	Sorry, yeah, Deputy Speaker! I get it. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, I am handing over the draft law amending the party law, which aims to reduce the state budget support of political parties by about half compared to today. In recent years, taxpayers' money has been spent on political parties in the middle of 5 million euros a year. One of the topics most discussed by the Riigikogu was the public funding of political parties and their excessive electoral spending. Although our party is in favour of a complete cessation of public funding, we believe that there is no support for this in this House. As a compromise, we propose a halving reduction. This would also automatically reduce the costs of elections, as parties would have fewer opportunities to launder. We are handing over a draft to amend the party law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-14_U9	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Mark Soosaar!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-14_U10	Good morning, dear colleagues. Smoke swallows are here, and soon we'll be able to enjoy the baby swallows' song. Absolutely certain that each of us will find a blue flower inside the rye field this year. But have any of you guys had any fresh herring in your mouth yet? I'm not gonna ask you not to see how many hands would stand. But with our national fish, things are really bad. The last herring fishing castle is in the Gulf of Livonia, while 85% of coastal fishing is still there, but its spring regulations are such that the end of this fishery is also visible. As a result, one of Pärnu's schoolgirls, Marianne Mikko, and two Pärnu schoolboys, Hardi Volmer and myself, will report an inquiry to the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus, and we will ask how he can help Kihnu and Manija's fishermen to catch the quota allocated to them by the state, because with the help of schemes, tricks and yoking systems, half of this quota has already been captured by other people. Our questions are as follows. How does the Ministry of Agriculture intend to compensate Kihnu and Manija's fishermen for the loss of income of EUR 130000 to EUR 140000? Is the Government of the Republic prepared to review the regulation on herring fishing and to amend the Population Register Act and the Law on the Small Islands with permanent residence in order to prevent permanent residence in the future? Thank you for the silence!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-14_U11	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Jüri Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-14_U12	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the Free Party Group, I will hand over the draft law supplementing the party law. The history of this draft is that the formation of the Free Party, as well as the fact that we are here as a group, are one of the important reasons for this, was that a group of people began collecting signatures for public access. The essence of this was that the system of state funding for political parties, which has been in force since 2004, should be substantially amended, as a first step, to halve the total amount. This total amount, let me remind you, is now EUR 5.4 million per year, so our idea is to reduce EUR 2.7 million. Since this idea was probably the reason why we were rejected from the negotiations of the government coalition because it did not match the understanding of the rest of the parties, we will come back with this idea in the form of a draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-14_U13	Good colleagues, no more calls. I have adopted two drafts and two questions on behalf of the Bureau. The Bureau shall decide on their further proceedings in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. Let's go to the messages. Today, at the end of the plenary session, a meeting of the Equal Treatment Support Group, convened by Yoko Alender, will take place in this Chamber. Good colleagues, we're looking forward to an active participation! Now, please, let's do the presence check! 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 16. There are no points on the agenda, so today's session is closed. I wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 10.08 a.m.
