ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the 3rd working week Thursday session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, do you have a desire to hand over drafts or enquiries? Please, Mr Dmitri Dmitriev!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I wish everyone a happy music day! But I have a health question to address to the Minister for Health and Labour on the subject of investment in health centres. The authors of the inquiry are 16 members of the Central Party Group. On 17 August, the Decree of the Minister for Health and Labour entitled "Modernisation of Primary Health Centres' entered into force. The Regulation regulates the use of European Regional Development Fund funds for the period 2014-2020 to support activities called "Supporting investment in centres of attraction in primary health centres infrastructure, ensuring accessible and diverse first-level services'. Under this measure, at least 35 primary health centres will be built or renovated during the period 2014 to 2023. The objectives of the operational programme shall be financed by a total of EUR 85 million in the operational budget of the action. The investment plan shall be approved by the Government of the Republic by its order. Only hospitals listed in the development plan for the hospital network receive support for the specific medical care referred to in the Regulation. By investing in health care, one of the principles could be to improve the availability of specialist medical care, especially in rural areas, so it is incomprehensible why not all applicants receive support for organising receptions of specialised doctors at health centres. It would bring specialized medicine closer to people. In this regard, we have a number of questions for the Minister for Health and Labour, which we hope will also be answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U3	Thank you. My colleagues have no further wish to pass on drafts and enquiries. I have adopted one inquiry; the Riigikogu processes it in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now the messages. Today, a space support group of the Riigikogu will be formed in this Chamber after the plenary session. All of you who are interested in forming and participating in this group, be good and stay in the Chamber after the end of the sitting. The caller is Anne Sulling. And now, please, the presence check! There are 80 members of the Riigikogu, no 21.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U4	Let's go to today's agenda. There are two points on the agenda. The first is the first reading of the Bill 54 on Dispute Settlement of Apartment Associations, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please waitress Mikhail Korbi, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U5	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! As of today, according to the e-registry, 10711 housing associations have been registered in Estonia. According to the last census, there are 23616 apartment buildings in Estonia. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] There are 457742 apartments. Apartment buildings make up 68.8% of the total Estonian housing fund, which means that two inhabitants of each of the three live side by side with their neighbours. And the neighbors often have a variety of questions. In order to resolve these issues effectively and more quickly, the Centre Party Group proposes to set up dispute settlement committees for the housing association. The purpose of the Housing Association Dispute Resolution Act is to protect residents by ensuring simple and quick resolution of disputes arising from cooperatives through the committees set up. Such an intermediary body between courts and cooperatives would allow for better and more efficient resolution of conflicts in cooperatives. Apartment cooperatives often have disputes between their members, especially management and owners. The subject of the dispute is wide ranging from the convening of the general meeting, the minutes of the meeting to the abuse of money. Until now, residents have turned to court to protect their rights, but access to justice is a long and costly process. When applying to the court, it is necessary to pay the state fee, to draw up the relevant document and to hire a good representative. The housing association or its member may not be able to bear the above costs and may be deprived of legal protection. However, since the activities of the building management company are related to the use of people's homes, it is important that the rights of all parties are equally guaranteed and the obligations fulfilled equally. It is important not only to guarantee rights but also to establish them effectively. The settlement of a civil dispute before the Court of First Instance takes five months in the middle, whether or not the judgment is appealed. The creation of committees would certainly reduce the number of litigations, which would significantly ease the workload of the courts. The draft is intended to give the municipality the right to set up a dispute settlement committee for a housing association, similar to the rental dispute committee. Issues arising in the Commission's working area in connection with the management of apartment property shall be resolved and the financial requirements shall not exceed EUR 3200. The referral to the Commission is voluntary. Therefore, the members of the building management company and the cooperative can always address the dispute directly to the court. Going to the Commission doesn't cost anything. We see that the dispute settlement commission of the building management company consists of a chairman and two members. The chairman must alone have legal higher education and the other two persons must have passed the examination of that Member of the Commission. The procedure for the adoption of the examination shall be determined by the Ministry responsible. The dispute shall be dealt with on the basis of a written application, the adoption of which shall be decided by the chairman of the committee within three working days of receipt of the application, and a meeting of the Commission shall be held within one month. If the application is lodged with deficiencies, the Commission shall set a deadline for their correction. The decision on the dispute shall be taken within seven working days of the hearing and the decision which has entered into force shall be published on the website of the local authority of the region where the Commission works. A party who disagrees with the Commission's decision may refer the matter to the County Court. If the same case has not been brought before the County Court, the decision shall enter into force definitively within 20 days. By setting up the Commission, we would provide everyone with the same opportunity to resolve disagreements effectively and quickly. In this way, members of housing associations as well as management bodies would receive help. The main objective is to find compromise solutions to disputes that have arisen. Thank you and I would like to ask for your support for the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U6	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U7	Hi! I mean, thank you! [[In the Laughing Hall.]] But, of course, good morning too, Mr President-in-Office and the speaker. There are really huge problems, disputes and disputes with housing associations, as you said. Not all these disputes come to court and quite often remain unsolved. But with your bill, you want to place on the hands of local authorities a very heavy extra burden, which requires time and resources to cope with, of course, also the working hours of officials and servants. It is not possible to do all of this without the local governments being given more money for it. Have you thought about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U8	Thank you for your question. Yeah, really, you're right. If such committees are to be set up with local authorities, this will require quite large sums of money. But this law would not oblige local authorities to create such bodies; rather, it would give them an opportunity. During the drafting of the bill, we had the idea that the local government had to review its options, including resources. If it is possible for a local authority to set up a committee, this could be done. But this bill doesn't provide for extra money.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U9	Thank you. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U10	Thank you. Excuse me, dear waitress, I didn't notice everything you said in your report. Did you mention any estimates? Let's assume your plan is coming to fruition. For example, how much could there be to resolve such disputes during the first year, how much workforce should it take, whether these cases can be dealt with by existing hired officials, or whether an additional wage fund is needed to set up the whole system? The noble intentions are understandable, of course, but the technical parameters, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U11	Thank you for your question. Of course, everything depends on the size of the local government. If we are talking about a local government that is not very large and where there are a few dozen housing associations, I expect officials to be able to solve the issues themselves. In this case, the municipality can resolve disputes with existing resources and within the framework of the work of the officials. But if it is a large municipality, where the number of housing associations and the number of disputes is very high, then it certainly requires additional resources. If you try to predict how many appeals there could be to the Commission, I would suggest that this amount is clearly greater than the number of appeals to the Court now. According to the draft, referrals to the Commission are free of charge, and this, of course, will allow a large number of people to turn to the Commission with their questions or concerns.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U12	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Here's what I want to ask you. Cooperatives formed by residents of individual dwellings are also active in the municipalities' territories, they jointly manage some territory, communications, organise surveillance, organize clean-up. There are also such cooperatives, not just housing associations. Why make the distinction that the municipality can set up a committee to deal with the problems of housing cooperatives, but can't solve disputes between individual housing cooperatives? Why the difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U14	Thank you for your question. This proposal was simply not made during the drafting of this draft. I think that this is a very constructive proposal and, if it could be formulated, it can be tabled at the time of the amendments. You are right, such disputes and questions also arise and, if this could fall within the competence of the Commission, of course, this law could be incorporated into the text.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U15	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U16	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Perhaps you would say a little more about the entry into force of a new law on 1 January 2018, which provides for compulsory collection: all housing units that by then have not become housing associations will be forced to do so. Perhaps the formation of these committees seems more necessary in this light. Perhaps this would make life easier for both housing associations and the local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U17	Thank you for your question. Indeed, only half of the apartment associations formed in apartment buildings currently exist in Estonia. The other half, and even more than half, are flats. It has been the decision of the residents of the building not to form and use a management company that serves the housing company. In the near future, all these houses really need to have a housing company, which means that regardless of whether there are two or four or 60 families living in the house, a legal association must be established. I do not think that the Houses Association Dispute Resolution Committee could help on this issue. But according to this bill, it doesn't matter whether it's a condo association or a housing association. The Commission must try to find a solution to all disputes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U18	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U19	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, As I understood from your answers, the creation of this committee is an opportunity for the municipality, not an obligation. Isn't there a danger that people will be treated unequally? Of course, it would be very good if the disputes were settled before the trial, and such committees could indeed be, but what about those people who live in a settlement where they are not to be created? If the municipality does not do so, people will have to go to court, spend money and nerves. Will there not be a risk of even more unequal treatment for residents?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U20	Yes, you have rightly understood that this is not an obligation, it is an opportunity. But if this practice turns out to be good and justifies itself, then surely the political forces who are taking part in the elections and want to offer more services to people will also promise to implement this change and, of course, they will later form this committee. I think that after some time, once this practice has justified itself, such committees will emerge across Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U21	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U22	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Here's the question. Why have you not foreseen smaller municipalities to cooperate and set up joint committees? And the second question is about members. Do you think these members of the Commission would be life-long, or would there be a rotation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U23	Thank you for your question. Indeed, the draft states that a local authority may set up a committee to resolve such disputes within its territory. I think it's a weighing position. In essence, there is no obstacle to the creation of a dispute committee on several local authorities, and such an amendment can be proposed. As regards the second question on the rotation of the members of the Commission, this is not foreseen in the draft, but it can also be considered. It is generally the case that the Commissions are usually formed with a view to their competence. It's a common practice, and I think that's what the law would provide.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U24	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U25	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good performer! It seems to me that this is one such draft that could unite the coalition and the opposition. I also very much agree with what Mr Sõerd said: indeed, it is not just a matter of housing associations. But there are many cooperatives across the country, and they form a lion's share of the large number of NGOs. But where is this monetary limit, the EUR 3,200 taken from?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U26	Thank you for your question. The limit is taken from the law on the settlement of the rental dispute, which provides for the same limit. It is simply a proposal that has no substantive consideration behind it. This is the rate above which the Commission's powers may be undermined when deciding on an amount.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U27	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U28	Thank you, Mr President. In times before the Law of Obligations was passed in the Riigikogu, a commission was written and had to deal with the problems between tenants and landlords in order to avoid social tensions during the transitional period. As I understand it, this committee has proved unnecessary, the projected number of these disputes has been over-exploited. Now I wonder what you consider to be an argument in the sense of this bill. Obviously, these disputes could not cover all the hundreds of thousands of problems that one owner would not agree with either the decision of the administrator or the decision of the management board of the cooperative. In your view, what disputes should be the subject of the work of such committees?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U29	The idea is that it is precisely every turnaround of a resident or a cooperative that must be dealt with by the Commission. The Commission's work should be aimed at eliminating legal errors or shortcomings. If the management board and other members of the building management company operate within the framework of the law, the Commission must also make this clear to the person who is addressing the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U30	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U31	Thank you. Good waitress! I'll pick up where Mr. Adams ended up. If you look at the competences of this committee, it is very broad. Having been exposed to communication in housing associations, I know that there are a zillion problems that no one likes to have a neighbor's dog or cat, and a hundred other problems. If legal competence is not restricted or specified, the number of complaints and disputes may reach thousands. The municipality may not be able to do this. Do you see the possibility of writing down more clearly what specific disputes these committees would be dealing with?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U32	Thank you for your question. The idea of this bill arose because people who have had misunderstandings in a housing association or a housing association are trying to get help or advice from several parts. In essence, it means going to another door from one door. A person doesn't have the money to turn to the court, and he goes from door to door, and I mean officials and authorities to set up a right so that someone can tell him how to influence the management of the building management company. There is a need to give the municipality some opportunity to help and at least to say that some things have been done wrong in the building management company. That's the idea. A body must be set up with the local government to assess whether or not things have been done correctly. And there's always a way to go to court. But when you talk about a line you shouldn't cross, there's two lines. One of the limits is EUR 3200, we are talking about sums less than EUR 3200. The second limit is questions that are not related to the management of apartment property. I mean, sharing real shares and other property disputes. Everything concerning the transfer of ownership or the restriction of ownership would not fall within the competence of that committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U33	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U34	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good speaker! I ask what today prevents local authorities from setting up similar problem committees or dispute committees. When I looked at your bill, I realized that the aim was to create more than 200 competent committees to settle disputes. Would it not be more appropriate, however, to use the existing association of housing associations, where this competence already exists in a concentrated manner? Maybe the results would be better. So the question of two parts: what is currently preventing them from creating and would it not be possible to create a single competence centre to solve these problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U35	Thank you for your question. I'll start with the other side. I think that any local authority can solve this issue in its own way and it is not excluded that the municipality is actually using aid from the Association of Housing Cooperatives. There's a really good competence there. But it is the specialists who work for the Association of Housing Associations that could be involved in the work of the committees. As far as the first question is concerned, laws today also allow the creation of conciliation bodies dealing with dispute settlement. A good example is the Press Council: journalists put together a body to discuss disputes and their decision is essentially accepted by all journalists. But in discussing this draft law, we came to the conclusion, given the number of problems and the number of parties involved, that enforcement is necessary in this matter. The Commission's task is not only to make a conciliation decision, but also to make an enforcement decision. If both parties do not appeal to the courts, the winning party may, in essence, go to the bailiff by decision. That's the point.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U36	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U37	Thank you. I think this is a very interesting initiative. I don't understand Peter Ernits, who gets up from bed on Thursday morning and sees some kind of opposition and coalition confrontation. But the problem with this draft is that we do not really understand what disputes these committees will face. I'm trying to help you answer that. If there were such a pre-trial dispute resolution panel, how much would you think the burden on the courts would be reduced on the basis of today's statistics and similar disputes discussed by the courts?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U38	Thank you for your question. I'm assuming there's a reduction in court proceedings, but there's no number I can tell you right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U39	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U40	Thank you! Good waitress! In paragraph 22 "Consequences of the entry into force of the Decision', you have stated that a decision which has entered into force by the Commission is compulsory for the enforcement of the parties and that the parties may not bring the same claim before the Court on the same basis after its entry into force. In fact, if we conclude a contract, we will always have the right to go to court to challenge it if we feel that our rights have been violated or we are not satisfied with what we may have also signed with foolishness. Is it not, however, such a violation of rights, a restriction? Once again, all the steps that are expected to reduce people's costs and the burden on the court are excellent steps. But I think there's a contradiction here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U41	Thank you for your question. It's a question of discussion again. You are right to refer the matter to the Court in general and, when discussing amendments, you may also consider changing this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U42	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U43	Here's my second question. We have a very good all-Estonian Association of Housing Associations. What is their opinion on this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U44	We did not get the official position of the Association of Housing Cooperatives, but the specialists working for this association took a very positive view of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U45	Thank you, dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I would like to ask Kristjan Kõljala, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to present the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U46	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs, as the lead commission, discussed the subject. I will give you an overview of both the debate on the Committee on Legal Affairs and the position of the Government of the Republic on this draft. I will start from the point of view of the Government of the Republic: they will not support this bill. The reasons are as follows: The impact on the budgets of local government units has not been assessed, which has already been discussed a little. The scope is unclear and there is also uncertainty about the general issues of the procedure. The meaning of the decision is not understandable, as according to § 23 of the draft, the decision which entered into force by the Commission will be enforced in accordance with the provisions of the enforcement procedure. It can be concluded from the explanatory memorandum to the draft act that, according to the originator's view, the decision is an enforceable document within the meaning of the Code of Enforcement Procedure. The Government of the Republic does not share this view as the list of enforcement documents is set out in the Code of Enforcement Procedure and the draft does not provide for this list to be supplemented, although the explanatory memorandum of the originator acknowledges this need. It is therefore considered that the Commission's decision, as proposed in the draft, would only be of an indicative nature. The Government of the Republic also believes that expectations about the impact of this law are unrealistic. According to the explanatory memorandum, the Commission is expected to settle the dispute in approximately one month, whereas it takes an average of five months to resolve such disputes in court. It should be noted that there is no guarantee that the draft decision will be reached within one month. A meeting of the Commission must be held during this period, but if necessary it will be postponed. It should also be taken into account that the law relating to the ownership of apartments and the association of apartments is by its very nature a much more complex area than those which are currently settled by the rental committees. By the way, rental committees have been formed in only one municipality, this is the city of Tallinn. The Government of the Republic therefore considers the idea that the committee set up by the local government can resolve these complex disputes more quickly and better than the court. In fact, the legislator has already adopted a law to facilitate the resolution of such disputes. This law will apply on 1 January 2018 and since then it will be possible to hold disputes before a court without an action. This also means repeating a lower state fee, a greater obligation of investigation for the court and the possibility of assigning a temporary member of the management board to the building management company for the duration of the disputes. The Government of the Republic does not, in principle, oppose new possibilities for dispute settlement, but the proposals in this regard must be based on existing law, in particular on the Conciliation Act, and the impact of the amendments must be properly assessed. In addition, the Government of the Republic draws attention to the fact that the claim in the draft explanatory memorandum that the possibility of recourse to the committee for resolving the disputes in the building management company is not valid is provided for by the Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act, which also regulates the activities of the building management company. This law does not provide for the possibility of setting up such a committee, but does not contain any amendments to that law or other laws. Coming to the meeting of the Commission, it should be noted that, in the opinion of the initiator, one of the main obstacles to resolving disputes is the high state fee. But as has already been said, in 2018 this state fee will be reduced by repeating. If, at present, the state fee is EUR 300, the state fee is EUR 50 under the applicable state fee law in procedural cases without an action. The author of the draft act and the representative of the Ministry of Justice also answered our questions at the committee meeting. The author explained that the dispute settlement committees of the building management company could be set up jointly on several municipalities, while the draft does not currently provide for this. The meeting also found that some major municipalities might need to have more of these committees given the expected number of disputes. The question of how the independence of such committees would be guaranteed was answered by the author that this would be ensured by the training of these people. The Commission's work should be paid from the local government budget and the Ministry of Justice should pay for the training. A representative of the Ministry of Justice stated that they did not have such an article on the training budget. The author replied to the question of whether the objectives set out in the draft could not have been achieved by amending the Apartment Association Act that this was such an important issue that it deserves a separate law. At the same time, we know that there is currently a conciliation law which, in essence, also gives the association of housing associations the opportunity to establish such a conciliation body. Against this background, we could also assess whether we are trying to regulate one area again. The desired opportunity really does exist thanks to the Conciliation Act. In addition, the initiator was asked to know how it would be possible to reduce the members of the Commission, appoint alternate members and rotation, and who should convene the Commission. We didn't get the exact answers. The hearing also expressed the view that, if the establishment of such committees is not mandatory for the municipalities, an unequal situation could arise. In some areas where the Commission does not have this, too, attention was drawn to a question in this Chamber, people must turn to the courts and pay the state fee. At the committee meeting, the proposal to close the first reading of the draft was put to the vote. With the result of 4 in favour and 6 against, the proposal was not supported. The Committee on Legal Affairs therefore proposes that the Riigikogu plenary assembly reject the draft 54 at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U47	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Does the Commission know the opinion of the Estonian Association of Apartment Cooperatives on this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U49	Thank you for your question. This issue was not discussed at the Commission meeting. So we don't know.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U50	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Good performer! Listening to my colleagues here, I thought this bill had a complexion, but right now I realize that it's actually a plan to flush him down. Do you think that discussions on this matter should continue? This is, in my opinion, a very important proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U52	Thank you for your question. As I explained, we have a conciliation law under which these problems can be resolved in a different way as well as possibly reaching solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U53	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U54	Thank you. Dear waitress, thank you for your presentation. The position of the government is now also clear. But you said that the law, which provides an opportunity to discuss and resolve these disputes more cheaply, will only enter into force on 1 January 2018. I met with the presidents of the housing associations and they waited for today's Riigikogu meeting. They were really curious about what we were saying here. Two years is a long time when nothing is done. We are waiting for 1 January 2018. Do you think two years is a short time?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U55	Thank you for your question. Two years is certainly not a short time, but, as I have said many times, there is a conciliation law that provides an opportunity to meet the objective of this draft. And secondly, yes, the amendment you mentioned will allow the court to bring an application for legal proceedings without an action. It is currently possible to bring an action before the courts.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U56	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U57	Dear waitress, You referred to the Conciliation Act, but you also understand that the Conciliation Act provides for a situation in which both parties agree that it must be accepted. Usually the problems of housing associations are difficult because people cannot agree on one another. That's the only way to go to court. A dispute resolution committee would provide an opportunity to resolve domestic issues arising in housing associations out of court. Why are you referring to the law of reconciliation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U58	Thank you for your question. According to the content of the draft proposal, these are Commission decisions of an indicative nature. So there is, in fact, no substantive difference between what the conciliation law provides for.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U59	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U60	Thank you. Good performer! You spoke mainly from the government's point of view, and you focused on it. It was like a bible in front of you. Don't you think that's why they call us a rubber stamp, that we don't have our own opinions and opinions? We'll focus on what the government said. That's what you sounded like right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U61	Thank you for your question, or rather for your position. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, it is also necessary to present the position of the Government of the Republic in such draft laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U62	Do you have a procedural question, Olga Ivanova? Two questions may be asked by a member of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no further questions. Thanks to the waitress! Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission has proposed to reject the draft at first reading. We shall vote on this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting to reject the draft proposal by the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 47 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 27 against and one abstention. The draft has therefore been rejected and will fall out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U63	We will go to the second item: Second reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Special Committee on Supervision of Security Institutions' presented by the Social Democratic Party Group. The rapporteur is Martin Kukk, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U64	Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft amending the decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of a Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities' before the second reading and decided to stick to the procedural decisions taken by the Commission at its meeting on 28 September. Our proposal is to refer this draft decision to the final vote and this proposal is consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-10-01_U65	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There's no call. No amendments have been tabled, so we can go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'amending the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Institutions' proposed by the Social Democratic Party Group 91. Please take a stand and vote. 70 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, one against, no abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes our sitting today. Thanks, everybody! Closure of the sitting at 10.53 a.m.
