ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the fourth working week of the first plenary session.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U2	Due to the resignation of a member of the Riigikogu, Kalev Kallo, Jaanus Karilaid is a member of the Riigikogu. In order for him to be able to do this job, he must take an oath of office. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U3	Ladies and gentlemen, By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu in the composition of Riigikogu XIII, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U4	It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Heili Tõnisson, on behalf of the Government of the Republic!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U5	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates a draft law on insurance business. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Sven Sester in the proceedings of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U6	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U7	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to pass on three draft decisions of the Riigikogu on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: firstly, on the establishment of a special committee for the control of the state budget, secondly, on the establishment of a special committee for the supervision of security authorities, and thirdly, on the establishment of a special committee against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U8	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U9	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 26 members of the Riigikogu, I have an inquiry to report to Minister of Finance Sven Sester. The inquiry concerns the planned tax increase of the newly created coalition, according to which the excise duty on diesel should rise by 14% and then by 10% per year next year, and the annual increase of the excise duty on petrol is planned to increase by 10%. This will lead to an increase of 51.7% in excise duty on diesel by 1 January 2019 and 46.4% in excise duty on petrol. This rapid increase in excise duties has led to acute resentment not only among operators in the sector but also in society at large. The members of the oil company have also said and sent a joint return to the Government of the Republic that the planned increase in excise duties will lead to a decrease in consumption and, in the case of transit transport, certainly to further refueling in Latvia. This will also increase the share of the black market in the fuel business. The calculations show that, due to tax changes alone, a 60 litre tank of petrol will cost more than €15 in four years' time. For one family, this represents a financial outturn of EUR 210.300. Consequently, we have four questions for the Minister of Finance. We ask him what gives him the assurance that our neighbouring countries will implement the same policy of tax increases and that Estonia's competitiveness can be maintained, as well as what budgetary expenditure is planned, because the state must find additional resources for ambulances, rescues and public transport. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U10	On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted four drafts and one inquiry, and the Bureau will deal with them on the basis of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Please, let's do the presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U11	There are 88 members of the Riigikogu, missing 13. The agenda is for you. Hopefully it'll be nuclear next week, but this time it will be. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the fourth working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 81 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, no one opposed, with six abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U12	The first item on our agenda today is the response to an inquiry. On behalf of Külliki Hatter, Andres Herkel, Monika Haukanõmme, Krista Aru, Andres Ammas, Artur Talvik and Ain Lutsep, Artur Talvik will speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U13	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On 13 April, the Free Party Group submitted an inquiry to the Minister for Rural Affairs regarding the obligation imposed on the municipality of Kehtna to keep pigs. The situation has changed slightly now, OÜ Rey Pig Farming has been declared bankrupt and the extra costs since we made an inquiry have not come to Kehtna municipality. But by now Kehtna Municipality has spent 18799 euros and it is still unclear how Kehtna Municipality could get that money back. We ask four questions in our inquiry. First of all: "How do you intend to amend § 64 (1) and (2) of the Animal Protection Act so that, in the case of such a large animal farm, all responsibility does not fall on a municipality that does not have the means to resolve the situation? § 6 (5) of the Local Government Organisation Act states that the state obligations imposed on the municipality by law are covered by the state budget. As the Food and Veterinary Office takes the pigs away and transfers them to the municipality, it can be concluded that this is still a transfer of state responsibility under the law. ' Here we could add that there is actually a legal dispute between the municipality of Kehtna and the Food and Veterinary Office. In particular, the municipality of Kehtna says that the Food and Veterinary Office, at a time when a temporary insolvency administrator had already been appointed, was not legally entitled to hand over the care of these pigs to the municipality of Kehtna, but should have handed it over to the owner of the animals, i.e. Rey Pig Farming, OÜ. The second question: 'What steps will you take to support the municipality of Kehtna in its request to receive support for the costs of filling the replacement from the reserve of the Government of the Republic or from any other source? ' To clarify, it is now quite clear that the municipality of Kehtna, a 'bank of bankruptcy', cannot cover its costs. The claims for bankrupt pig production amount to more than three million and the assets are estimated at around 800000. There is no law requiring the new owner to compensate for costs incurred in the meantime which were not claimed. So there's more confusion here. The third question: 'What steps will you take in support of Estonian pig farming, based on points 20.1 and 20.2 of the Coalition Agreement, which allow support for farmers in finding new export channels and markets, spreading risks and introducing new technologies? Question 4: "What assistance have you asked or received from the Minister of Public Administration, whose duties include the financial management of local authorities? ' I would like to ask, however, whether it is planned to amend § 64 (1) and (2) of the Animal Protection Act and to clarify the bankruptcy procedures and whether the municipality of Kehtna will receive its spent money, i.e. EUR 18799. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U14	The question must be answered by the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U15	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good guests! Indeed, members of the Free Party Group have asked a number of questions about the activities of OÜ Rey Seaskas and the bankruptcy that has now been announced. I will start with the first question: 'How do you intend to amend § 64 (1) and (2) of the Animal Protection Act, so that, in the case of such a large animal farm, all responsibility does not fall on a municipality that does not have the means to deal with the situation? § 6 (5) of the Local Government Organisation Act states that the state obligations imposed on the municipality by law are covered by the state budget. As the Food and Veterinary Office takes the pigs away and transfers them to the municipality, it can be concluded that this is still a transfer of state responsibility under the law. ' As far as we know, for the first time in Estonia there has been a situation where, after the appointment of a temporary insolvency administrator, the insolvency administrator is unable to sustain the animals of the company and the Veterinary and Food Board knows that the life and health of the animals is at risk. It is certain that, in this situation, the local government unit that knows the local conditions best can react most quickly. However, it is clear that the meaning of the law refers to short-term activities. This means that measures for the protection of animals can be applied in the short term within the local government unit. Since such a case is the first time in Estonia and there is no practice, we are really considering the need to amend the law in the light of the Rey Seaskas case. For example, whether the costs incurred by a local authority in fulfilling its obligation to keep animals can be regarded as the maintenance task of the keeper of the debtor's property. The background is that if we want to preserve the life of animals and the local government is forced to spend, it would make perfect sense for these expenses to be compensated as a matter of priority, because the local government has begun to preserve the property at its highest value, i.e. to guarantee the life of the animals. When it comes to legislative change, indeed, as the good questioner has already pointed out, we need to work with other ministries, because some things also concern the business code. If we are only looking at the animal protection law, it could indeed be treated in the same way. But if we bring in bankruptcy proceedings, it is clear that we should bring these laws into line in the future in order to avoid such cases. As a result, the legal disputes currently going on over these issues are welcome on the one hand, but the question arises as to why the temporary insolvency administrator did not take advantage of the possibility of creating a so-called deposit account in which the local government or creditors could have transferred additional money to support the animals, i.e. to feed them, and could also have recovered these funds a priori, precisely on the basis of the fact that mortgages and guarantees have been imposed on the property. So, the short answer is: yes, we are going to change the law. As it stands, I do not think this legislation is right or fair, and therefore changes are needed. The second question: 'What steps will you take to support the municipality of Kehtna in its request to receive support for the costs of filling the replacement from the reserve of the Government of the Republic or from any other source? ' As I have already mentioned, I am sure that this money must be paid back to the local government. In the ministry and as a minister, I am still of the opinion that, if it is 100% clear that a possible new owner or owner arising from bankruptcy proceedings will not take responsibility for itself, if there really is such a regrettable thing that this money will not be received in the next process, on the basis that this property has been preserved as a property of bankruptcy on a very good qualitative and, in my opinion, also on an ethical level, I propose to the Government of the Republic, as a minister, that this money be paid out of the reserve fund of the Government of the Republic. The third question: 'What steps will you take in support of Estonian pig farming, based on points 20.1 and 20.2 of the Coalition Agreement, which allow support for farmers in finding new export channels and markets, spreading risks and introducing new technologies? ' Pig farmers have access to the investment and environmental support of the rural development plan, as well as to advice and knowledge transfer measures. In addition, we have provided a number of positive incentives for pig farming in the measures. If we look at the investments made by farms to improve their performance, this measure will, for example, support investment in buildings, facilities, equipment and mobile machinery, with a maximum amount of up to EUR 500000. At the same time, we have made one distinction for pig farming, according to which if the operator is a pig breeding cooperative and the investment is made for the construction of a breeding farm, which is also used for research and training purposes, the maximum aid amount is up to EUR 1.5 million. Already in the first round of applications for this measure, eight pig farmers applied for a total of EUR 2,7 million. In total, this measure is planned to invest EUR 7.1 million. We also support, within the framework of the small farm development measure, activities that contribute to the development of farms and to improving competitiveness. The maximum amount of support here is EUR 15000 and the applicant is not actually required to make an own contribution. Under this measure, pig farmers who stop rearing for at least the next five years and continue in another area will be given a preference during the evaluation. This is due to the fact that, when assessing objectively the entire pig market, both internal consumption and export capacity and the Russian market's failure, it is clear that some companies must definitely leave this economic activity and we are trying to support their exit. When we look at the case of Rey Pig Farming, when the price of pork did not rise in 2011 and the price of cereals increased, it actually meant that the costs went up. And when Russia also stopped adopting live pigs in 2012, this channel was closed, the situation became even more critical and some companies restructured their activities or planned to exit it within a reasonable period of time. This company did not do so for some reason, and I have a question as to why this was not done. When assessing current and past financial activities, it seems that bankruptcy should have come much earlier than it did. And this happened only because a creditor's partner filed for bankruptcy because the debt had already reached EUR 180000. So, in any case, we are planning new measures. One important measure in the search for new markets, which we also support, is linked to a representative organisation in the sector, a non-profit association that brings together pig meat producers. The measure is intended to constitute aid for the common market. We can say that our farmers and processors are doing very good work on the quality of food or the quality of its activities. And this means that when looking for new markets, we must very much inform potential target markets and potential buyers of the fact that goods produced in Estonia and made from Estonian raw materials have a certain quality mark, it meets the demands and deserves to be sold out. Tomorrow I will meet with the Chinese ambassador in Estonia and the topic we are discussing is also related to the food industry and the other way around to agricultural products, which are quite closely linked to each other. Thus, market development grants, campaign and fair grants and information on products produced within the framework of the European Union and nationally recognised quality schemes, i.e. promotion activities, are also part of the MAK, the rural development programme measures, i.e. the European Union information or promotion measure. It should be noted in particular that it is also important to reach beyond the European market. We want to clearly support the exit to third countries, which is, in any case, necessary and far-reaching. That would be all for short. In answer to the last question, whether we have received assistance from the Minister for Public Administration or discussed this issue with him, yes, we have briefly discussed it. However, since we did not need the help of the Minister for Public Administration at this stage of the procedure, we have not discussed this issue again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U16	It is now possible to ask questions to the minister who answers to the question. The Rules of Procedure Act allows one question to be asked in the case of enquiries, and it is time to submit it as usual for one minute. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U17	Thank you. Good minister! What is your position as to whether the Food and Veterinary Office, which is under your ministry's jurisdiction, broke the law when he committed the municipality of Kehtna to feeding these pigs after the temporary insolvency administrator had already been appointed? The law clearly states that when a temporary insolvency practitioner is appointed, the obligation to feed animals should go back to the owner.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U18	Thank you. Since I'm not a lawyer, I'm gonna be a little more modest in this legal issue. Modesty is due to the fact that experts have had different opinions on whether or not they were right. In any case, the Food and Veterinary Office has completed this precept today, and I very much hope that in this very case we will be able to discuss the matter with the various lawyers with the various skills in such a way that there is legal clarity. As I pointed out in my reply, this was indeed an extraordinary case for us in that, when the temporary insolvency administrator was appointed, he could not arrange for pigs to be kept. When, on my second working day in the ministry, I met with a temporary insolvency administrator, a representative of the company and a representative of the local government, I had to admit, to my astonishment, that there really was no plan to come out of this situation so that the pigs would survive. The only plan seemed to be that the local authority would simply pay daily for the feed and this amount could amount to EUR 70000 to EUR 100000. This plan, in order to start quickly to realise live animals in such a way that financial resources could also be available for feeding pigs, did not seem to have been realised at that point. When it became clear in the ministry that neither the local authority nor the State was planning to provide additional funds at this stage, it happened that pigs were sold and feed was also purchased.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U19	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! This response, which society has found to be the sad fate of Kehtna pigs, is, of course, remarkable. In fact, the fate of a pig is known: in the end, a man eats the pig, and the problem is solved. But these pigs aren't the only pigs. After all, there are other pigs that have been sold for the price of the sandwich, and hundreds of cows have been sent to a meat combinate. If you travel around Estonia, you can see these semi-decomposed and decomposing pigswells and empty cowhouses, yes and yes. Do you, as Minister of Rural Affairs, have any plans to bring life to the country? The humorous aspect of this is that not the pigs went bankrupt, but the people went bankrupt. Do you have a certain plan to breathe life into rural life, otherwise you can't be Minister of Rural Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U21	Thank you. Life is certainly a great asset, no matter where we look at it. If you start at the end of your question, it is certain that if the company goes bankrupt and people remain unemployed in the region for one reason or another, the unemployment fund should help, just as it has done in different regions. We hope that all people will be able to get back the chance to work stablely and receive income for this, because, according to my data, at some point, workers were not paid. As regards the second part of the question, that there are decomposing buildings and there are companies where it is clear that this business cannot go any further, as I said before, it is also what the business choices of one or another undertaking have been. When we are talking about specific pig farming, in my opinion, which is based on the opinion of specialists and on the opinion of those who have been in this company for longer, the necessary changes in this business should have been made earlier. This concerns the way in which investments have been made in buildings, the way in which all animal feeding is organised, etc. This is a sign that a pig farm may probably still be bankrupt if it is unable to reproduce itself or realise pigs within a reasonable period of time. When we are talking about Rey Pig Farming, where there were over 10,000 pigs, and during that time, when bankruptcy had already been announced, there were more pregnant sows, it is clear that the disposal of the holding and the animals in a reasonable way would have been expected by the company until November.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U22	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It is known how tense local government budgets are. In addition, there is a period of rest coming up and spending is particularly high. Minister, can you guarantee that the parish will get back the money spent on this pig food?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U24	If I am not mistaken, the cost now borne by the local government amounted to nearly a quarter of the reserve fund's annual amount. It is clear that its repayment cannot be delayed until the end of the year. As a minister, I assure the Riigikogu that, should it happen that the government will not be able to recover the money during the proceedings, I will certainly propose that the government find the money. I hope the government will accept this and the money will be paid back to the parish.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U25	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U26	Mr. Minister! When you said that the case was the first time in Estonia, you probably meant that you had not experienced anything like this in your lifetime, and perhaps your subordinate officials did not. But if you go back in history, a few generations ago, probably the main such period was during World War II, when there were hundreds of such cases, if not thousands of them, there was definitely some kind of legal regulation in society about who was obliged to provide the aid and how the costs of the aid were compensated for for the people who volunteered to help. Can you tell us what those principles were? I mean, the system worked well together. What do you need to take over from it these days? After all, history did not end in World War II.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U27	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Pig farmers are already destroying sows, and the figures involved are actually very large. If this continues, there is a very clear tendency that the Estonian state will not be able to feed the Estonian people with its pigs. What are the plans of the Estonian state concerning pig meat production? Is the country planning to support the pig sector further, or is it going down this road to import more pork to feed the Estonian people?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! I apologize if I go a little further than the direct issue, from Good Brussels, but I'm interested in this moment. You mentioned in your reply that one component that has made the situation more difficult is Russian trade. I mean the common sanctions of the European Union against Russia. Will all the concerns, all the damage that could arise from the imposition of these sanctions and the narrowing of the market now fall to the Estonian producer, or will it be possible to talk about some kind of principle of solidarity in the European dimension? Why am I asking that? I am asking because on 28 February 2013, we were answered that we have not asked for solidarity aid from the European Union, although Brussels is willing to give it. Could there be a situation where we need European Union assistance to make good the damage? Has anything been done and known about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U30	Thank you, Reverend Asker! As I have said in my previous answers, the risk of the Russian market actually began to come forward at the end of 2011. In 2012 the admission of live pigs was banned in Russia, but it was not until 2014 that meat products were accepted. This means that some businesses, whether knowingly or unknowingly, did not respond to this threat. But it is certain that the Estonian Government, as well as the former Minister of Agriculture, stood for certain subsidies to come to us because of the milk crisis. If I am not mistaken, this amount was EUR 6,9 million, which was allocated to this sector in support of what happened to the Russian market. This was considered to be a specific problem. You understand very well that, when it comes to the common agricultural policy of the European Union, those who want to receive support, who have problems with Russia, have had more than one vote in Spain or Italy. But it was the will of our government and our legislator to receive support, and it was received.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U31	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U32	Honorable Chairman! Honourable Minister! What is the security risk in Estonia when rural people who produce meat and grain become increasingly dissatisfied and go bankrupt because the state is not interested in it? And don't start telling me you didn't know the Russian market was going to fall from behind. We knew that a long time ago, it didn't happen all of a sudden.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U33	I'm sorry, I didn't understand the other side of the question. [[There's something going on in the hall.]] That's what I got. I would point out once again that political risk cannot be ruled out in any country, but overall there is no political risk to a large extent in Europe. As for the security risk you asked me about, I am sure that if we were all to live in Tallinn or Tartu, the security risk would be very high. I am definitely the person who is in favour of having people in the woods in Estonia. This is difficult, and we also try to support from time to time those people who are taking a relatively extreme step to live there. But I think it needs to be supported. The more evenly the people of Estonia are covered and the more work there are in different regions, the more courageous it is for us to live in this country. I agree with that. But that problem could mean some kind of excessive risk, I can't confirm that. Security risks vary, we have both social risks and military risks. We have some activities against military risks, others against social risks, but in fact, it's all intertwined. So, yeah, I'm in favour of a painting having life. Yeah, I'm saying that if big production continues to grow the same way, we're gonna need less hands. That is why side measures are needed, and the rural development plan has set one of the objectives of the rural development programme, and I may beUtrating a little, so that every family has at least one job in agriculture. It doesn't have to be pig breeding or any livestock farming, it can also be gardening, vegetableing, whatever.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U34	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U35	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Minister! You mentioned here earlier that it is very important that milk should be deserved, or even that agricultural products should be deserved, in full agreement with two hands! just that Estonia produces almost twice as much milk as we need. I personally think that this is not a problem because there is a complete demand in the world. But my question: do you or some other ministry have a specific action plan that will help us export our agricultural production? Moreover, have you also made any plans on how to reduce national barriers, i.e. the so-called administrative burden, to make it easier for our companies to compete on the international market?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U36	When it comes to business competition and the competitiveness of Estonian companies, I think that the climate that is in Estonia as a whole allows sufficient competitiveness. Economic activity in Estonia pays off and this has been demonstrated by the fact that it has been possible to invest in Estonia. As far as possible exports are concerned, it is certainly important to assess the latest openings in the export markets. Let us take the same example of Japan. Indeed, there could be at least 5,000 tons of powder and 5,000 tons of cheese, but we can actually see that we have not yet been able to meet that request. This means that we may increase production capacity, but if we cannot find new export markets and exploit existing ones, we will face the same crisis as if the state were unable to sell production. At the moment, China has completed or is almost ending, it is fair to say that it is a mapping of the requirements relating to the area. In autumn, their inspectors will come to the Republic of Estonia to review our production cycles to see whether or not the way we deserve agricultural products is acceptable to them. We're actually really counting on it. Secondly, if we look at the export figures, we have opened up more than ten new exporting countries in connection with the Russian market's failure. The truth is that the volumes that go there are not as large as we have hoped for at first. But Estonian agriculture clearly has more export potential and certainly both the Minister of Rural Affairs and the Minister of Enterprise and the Government as a whole are working on the so-called political opening of new markets. As the entrepreneurs have confirmed, they are trying to deal with the rest on their own. However, when we talk about protecting our market and protectionism, we actually see a completely different situation. On the one hand, it is as if the contracts are very good and free to sell, but access to the market may prove very difficult because national approvals and other arrangements are so bureaucratic that they make entry there either very expensive in certain cases, which makes the undertaking completely impossible or very difficult. So the situation may seem beautiful and clearly respectful of free trade rules, but in real life we see that we also have to fight certain types of bureaucracy. And bureaucracy is usually one; we cannot create special conditions for Estonia here in the European Union. We may do so, but we can only apply special conditions to our producers. Whoever comes from Latvia or Lithuania, for example, does not have to comply with all these requirements.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U37	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U38	Although the question concerned pig rearing, I can also answer more general questions. If we look at the rural development plan, its direction is clearly in the broader key to dealing with rural areas. This includes very broad spectrum subsidies. These broad-spectrum subsidies are also intended to be allocated to larger companies in order to restructure their production. As we are talking about knowledge transfer and greater involvement of science, we have increased the amount of this measure three times as well. We will bring in support measures for young people to enter the agricultural business. This means that for an age range of up to 40, there is a separate measure for young people to go to the country, start farming in one form or another and receive support for it. This package of measures is extremely wide. But this is not the idea of the Minister's invention that the producer who sells raw materials generally does not collect wealth. He may collect wealth when there is so much of this raw material that it comes from the door and window, but Estonia is relatively small and we must consider that all the wealth we produce here on our little green plot of land must first be produced in an environmentally friendly manner and, secondly, be worth so much added value that the money it receives will also come to the grassroots level specifically. There are many of these measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U39	Jaak Madison!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U40	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. It is recalled that the opening of the electricity market and the resulting increase in electricity prices made our competitiveness on the external market significantly worse. Have forecasts and analyses been made as to how the increase in fuel excise duty affects the competitiveness of Estonian companies both in Estonia, in competition with foreign companies and in foreign markets? Is this forecast made? Have the analyses been carried out and, if so, what will be the four-year scenario?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U41	Thank you, Reverend Asker! When we talk about the forecast and analysis by the Ministry of Finance before the decision to raise excise duties on fuel reaches the government table, the information that I have today suggests that, depending on the sector, this impact is extremely different. But it has never been mentioned that competitiveness will be greatly damaged. More has been said about the possible impact on prices which, for certain sectors, are less than one per cent of the price, and I am talking about the final price. However, for certain sectors, when we talk about the greatest impact of the increase in excise duty, the increase in the price of services could be a few per cent. This concerns the transport sector, where transport costs account for about a third of the company's costs. There may be a question of whether they are competitive with companies in other regions. I haven't seen this final analysis in person so far, but I know it's being formalized. According to the ex ante assessment, this should not affect competitiveness to such an extent that a disaster occurs. Certainly, as always in business, it can contribute to bankruptcies and certainly the Minister is not happy with any bankruptcy, even if it helps to move the economy forward more generally. Bankruptcy, on a personal level, is ultimately an accident for any company and means social and other problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U42	No further questions. Thank you. I will open negotiations where I should first give the floor to the representative of the heirs, but since they have no wish, Mr Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Please, plus three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U44	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U45	This is a very serious problem that I would like to discuss. This is where the minister stated that maybe the figures went crazy. I can't see very well without my glasses, but I can still read from here that the transfer of more than 10,000 animals is a precedent. However, we are talking about 10,000, and the first of the problems is that the costs are approximately 35000 euros per month. 10,000 pigs, it takes 35,000 euros a month to do whatever you want, but that's 3.50 euros a month for a pig. Do whatever you want, but it's 30 days a month! And do what you want, the people who feed the pigs have to get paid, and the state has to get their share of the tax, and they'll come out 5 cents a day for the pig. I don't understand anything about agriculture. Maybe they're tiny pigs, like a dove from a new egg, but I can still imagine them a little differently. And when it came to what the Minister said that he was going to ask for money from the government's reserve fund, the interesting question arises as to whether all decisions are taken in this way within the government. Doesn't anyone think 10,000 pigs and 35,000 euros a month? What kind of pig breeding is that five cents a day, and why aren't we bragging about the whole world with these abilities? Anyway, I'd be very happy to be able to feed one pig every day for 5 cents, that would be a big step forward. If, at this level, we were to decide on these issues, maybe we'd be looking for some know-how, something very progressive, how to get out of this problem. If you can feed a pig for five cents a day, then maybe cross with a bear will help, and then you don't need to feed for half a year and let it suck your paw. You're talking to a serious face, but you're talking absolutely absurd. The government is charged EUR 35000. What will this poor parish do with this money? Of course, he has a chance to make his own money. I've only seen one New Zealand movie in my life, it's a horror movie called Black Sheep. New Zealand, a huge flock of sheep, and when they did awful, they didn't do it about vampires or some wolves, they did it about sheep. They lost their minds, started hunting and eating people. And it turned out to be a really fun movie. However, if we are already discussing at this level that 10,000 pigs will be fed with EUR 35000 per month, then let them open and make a movie about it! I can imagine what kind of sensation this could be. I've been talking about this bleacher a lot of times. For example, the kind of thing that's bullshit is that our Ministry of the Interior is run by a human being a couple of years ago was a situation that didn't have any day's experience in the police. And strangely enough, you come out of this house how often do people come near you and shake hands? That's right! What are those people who don't understand police work doing in the office of the Minister of the Interior? What is Mr. Ligi doing now in the office of the Minister of Education and Science? He's, of course, an interesting figure, he's going to folklore, maybe he's going to folk songs. Who of us would dare say in this very hall that if one person dies from a couple of pensioners, it would be better if the one who is left alone died because life is so difficult? That's the kind of person you put at the top of education and science! I was hoping that today we could hear how big our herd of pigs is now talking about animals in Estonia, and how many companies are at risk of bankruptcy. How much is it really necessary to feed a pig herd, if not a pig farmer, at least at the level of the insolvency administrator? This in a crisis situation, because sanctions against Russia will not be lifted by anyone, and that means that Russia will not change its sanctions against us either. We wanted to. We got it! How big is this possible herd that goes to rural municipalities and cities? What is the amount of money needed to get from somewhere, probably from the reserve? I can imagine with horror that we will be here for four years listening to such answers. People, you who formed the government, the professionals have to deal with things! A person with experience in police work must lead the Ministry of the Interior; an intellectual must lead the Ministry of Education. And agriculture should be managed by a person who understands agriculture, even if anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U46	I'm closing the negotiations. Would the Minister like to make a statement? Please, Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U47	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu, Honourable Enquiries! I would just like to say one comment. The previous remark in my speech was that if we get an estimate from economic operators of how much they take to feed animals, they have been very different. The average cost for this company was EUR 3500 per day, and when we talk about a local government that has spent EUR 18,000, what the honourable speaker said earlier does not match that. But, of course, once the local government has made these expenses, it is right and fair that he gets the money back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U48	The debate on this item is closed. After the hammer hit, the free microphone will begin.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U49	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U50	Thank you. Good minister! Do you have an overview of the number of companies that deal with live animals and are tax debtors? Rey Pig Farming has been known to be a tax debtor since February last year. What are the Food and Veterinary Office's plans or activities in this case? Do they have an overview of the state of things?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U51	When we look at the latest research, I hope I'm not wrong about the picture that about half of us had problems with responsibilities. But that does not mean that they are in very serious difficulties, because everything depends on the methodology of how it is studied and on how long these obligations are up. In general, it is relatively common in the business world that someone is indebted to someone on a rolling basis and also to someone who is in debt. So it's a question of balance. AS Tartu Agro intends to exit this project, who has publicly announced that it will exit this activity due to possible changes in the market due to previous years. There are still a number of companies who are unofficially aware of the fear that they might go out of this business, but I cannot confirm this as a minister at the moment, because this information is not officially available. However, as regards how agricultural production could overcome financial difficulties during a certain period, this was one of the issues we discussed today in the Committee on Rural Affairs. The development and implementation of this measure, involving the Rural Promotion Foundation, could be an issue. Because it may be particularly sad when, because of temporary market difficulties, a farmer has to give up his land, which he will never get back. I dare assure you that when we talk about the price of land, including land used for agricultural production, its value is clearly growing, whether we look at things domestically or globally.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U52	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U53	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. To the wider question of how you intend to develop rural areas, you answered that we have an unemployment fund that will pay support to the rural population if necessary. My question is whether this approach, this vision, is based on the coalition's plan to solve all our rural issues. Will all problems be solved by means of an unemployment fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U54	Thank you, Reverend Asker! If I think back on my answer, I would dare say that this is your arbitrary interpretation of my expression. I was talking specifically about people who may have been in trouble because there is no job in a particular region. I think it is the responsibility of the state and the unemployment fund to deal with these people. Whether they go back to work in the agricultural sector or in another sector, this is the second part of the problem. There is, in my opinion, another strategic and extremely important issue. If I look at the same so-called milk crisis, the fact that Lithuania started to pay 40 cents at one point for a liter, and at one point it ended, it was some period, then it is clear that the more we can earn and sell agricultural production here in Estonia, the more rural people can get income. We're gonna have to stand up for this. We're gonna have to deal with this. It makes no sense to create an illusion that if we now have 180% of Estonia's needs for milk production, that is, if we produce almost twice as much raw milk and if we produce more raw milk, we invest in new stables and breeding, it will be sustainable in the long term. At the moment, we are trying to take the initiative in the sectors to find ways to develop cooperative activities and create our own production unit. We have EUR 18 million to implement this measure. Indeed, the most active in this area is, at least at first glance, the dairy industry, as well as the cereal growers, have shown activity. The livestock farmers have been the quietest. But knowing that intensive agriculture means less work-based technology and skills are developing, it is clear that if we want rural people to have jobs, we need to think a little more broadly. Pure agricultural production alone and the extraction of raw materials do not solve the problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U55	Thank you, manager. Good minister! You're a pretty good problem teller, but the election campaign's over. The Minister is always there to implement politics. In previous answers, you mentioned that the government should not focus too much on the export of raw materials, milk and cereals, that rural areas are much wider and that we should encourage rural areas with different measures. What, then, are the measures that are different from those of previous ministers and which you intend to implement?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U56	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U57	It is very difficult for me to comment on this historical principle because I am not well aware of it. But in the light of this case, I can say that it is certainly not the legislator's idea that our legislative space should allow the local authority to be obliged to deal with pig farming, for example during the year. We'll take a few smaller municipalities. If the same large company had been in some of the smaller municipalities, it would have been very clear to everyone that the local government might not have even had the money to feed 10,000 pigs on a single day. This actually means that we need to amend this law. The logic behind the legislator may have been more concerned with animals kept at home, which need to be taken away from their owners from time to time in order to protect their lives, to keep them in shelter and to finance their keeping there. This is a completely different measure and other orders of magnitude. I am very pleased that we have found a consensus on this in the Committee on Rural Affairs today and we have come to the conclusion that there is a need to change the legislative base. As a minister, I hope that together with the Riigikogu we will be able to do so in a reasonable way.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U58	Agriculture is certainly by its very nature the type of management in which changes in the market can affect the pricing of countries, both within the country and in terms of export and import. As all pig farmers have said from one mouth, trading with Russia has been quite profitable when selling live pigs there, and it could continue forever, but we know that there are major political risks to the Russian market that affect us too. When we talk about whether Estonian agriculture can feed the Estonian people, we certainly can, and we can produce many times more than the Estonian people need. On this point, I believe in our farmers and, seeing how innovative they are, I assure you that they will certainly be able to do so. The more difficult question is how we can make up for the agricultural products produced here so that we can take out less raw materials and add value to agricultural production. In this sense, betting only on the business of live pigs is not the most sensible in the long term. While this can be part of the business and, in the event of market fluctuations, in a positive direction, a very profitable business, this is not the final solution. I visited a meat company last week, and we were discussing how Estonian entrepreneurs are able to handle meat products, be they sausages or other goods, when selling in remote markets. They all admitted it was pretty complicated. The nearby region and the nearest market, such as the Baltics, are relatively more realistic than entering Finland, for example, where taste preferences and perhaps the more monopoly of certain trade chains and industries contradict this. But, as I said before, we have many measures that specifically support pig farming, its reorganization and investment in new technologies to make production more efficient. The fact is that when we talk about farmers, the smaller part of those who have contributed to efficiency and large-scale production accounts for 80% of Estonia's production. It seems to me that this is an irreversible trend, which means that the country has a desire to improve this smaller sector so that it can diversify life on land and provide an opportunity to cultivate different forms of production.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U59	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. If you don't mind, I'll start with a compliment. It is undoubtedly a great honour for Estonian agriculture that it is managed by a person as competent and understanding agriculture as you do. I hope you will explain to me a question I had when I read this question. I mean, from the Bible, I've read that Christ fed a lot of people with five loaves, and I believe that's because it's the Bible. But here we are talking about 10,000 animals and the monthly costs are 35000 euros, or 3.5 euros per pig per month, or 10.12 cents a day. Taxes, employees' salaries, etc. must be deducted from this. How big is the pig that gets fed with a dozen cents a day, or how much is the portion of food he gets offered a day? Haven't you had that question?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U61	Thank you, good questioner! In fact, I do not think that these sums of money on the feed you have mentioned are quite correct. When we asked for it directly from the entrepreneur, we received opposite figures, as did the local government. The second thing I believe is that workers' salaries were saved at some point. So more money could be used to feed pigs, and at that point it was probably a priority objective. But thanks to both scientific progress and new knowledge in agriculture and the competence of farmers themselves, feeding plays a very important role in animal husbandry. I will bring here a parallel with the productivity of cows: we have reached, on average, almost 8,000 kilos a year, but the maximum is, as far as I know, over 10,000 kilos of milk per cow, and this is very much related to the housing method, efficiency and feeding ration. But indeed, as the Veterinarian Office identified, some days there was a danger that pigs might be malnourished. For the time being, however, I dare to assure you that, in general, during this continuous inspection, we have been informed that pigs are well fed and in good health.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U62	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U63	Mr President! I came here for balance. I was just complaining that we have ministers, as they are, but then we have to praise them. I watched with great interest this interview that our good Prime Minister gave us, what was it? To the rain radio. Strangely enough, it wasn't just me. The custom is, if you walk a lot in the city, they'll come to you and ask you. It was now asked what our Prime Minister meant when he said that before the introduction of this excise duty, Porsche Cayenne and other luxury SUVs would be bought together well. A person sees such a picture that if he does, the people will run right into that Porsche store, in sweaty hands, 100,000 or 150,000 euros, and get into a fight, they'll start buying these Porschees. What level of argument is that? Very interesting, anyway. The following quote was made in the garment: the previous one was also a quote that our car park is the most polluting in Europe and that it is not correct to ignore the environmental aspect. See, that's something new in our legislation, because we're increasing fuel excise. And I've always thought that, as the law states, it must be true that excise duties on fuel are used to maintain roads. Local authorities have a certain share, the rest puts the country on national routes. What environmental protection? Why raise excise duty and talk about environmental protection when this money is used to repair and build roads? Point three: in four years, the quote will rise again, according to the government's plan, 20 cents of fuel excise duty, 5 cents each year. In clothing, people in border areas, for example, do not believe that this is why they are going to Latvia to refuel. If my memory doesn't deceive me, every third child in Estonia will starve. How many adults are starving? How many people can't officially be unemployed who go looking for food in trash cans? In the current economic situation, how can the Prime Minister assess our society from his point of view? Can't he even look and see with the eyes of the world's average human? According to the garment, the effect of the increase in excise duties on fuel is actually quite small for 5 cents per litre and still needs to be seriously eroded. Let's Utreise, then! It's small enough at 1.20, let's round, let's add 5 cents, 4% increase. Why is the 4% increase a fantastic achievement? Why is 4% inflation already fucking high? But here it's just utrising. Are we going to listen to this argument for four years? But the most questions are about the beginning of the interview. Let's see what's in the beginning. Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas told Vikerradio that if it turns out that the price of oil has risen very much in a few years' time and Latvia has not increased the excise duty at all, there must be an opportunity to review excise policy. There's gotta be a way! That's what the Prime Minister says, who raises excise duty and sometimes... No, it doesn't happen to cut off the excise duty, it's reduced. Who's gonna raise the excise duty? The government. The government doesn't stand a chance! Our economy is under the influence of Finland, Sweden and Germany, right, politically controlled by America. But the people didn't know we were still Latvian vassals. In a few years, if it turns out that the price of oil is huge, then... The Russians say that if the cancer whistles on the mountain... Or that it happens after Thursday's rain. It would be fairer and more honest to admit that, as the coalition itself thinks, it will never be reviewed. It's a beautifully hidden thought in here. But done...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U64	Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U65	...but it has been done very well, for which I also congratulate the members of the coalition. You have a very good Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-27_U66	There's no more calls. The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 4.10 a.m.
