ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-28_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the Tuesday session of the fourth working week of the first plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, would you like to hand over drafts or inquiries? Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-28_U2	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The coalition agreement is about supporting rural areas and creating jobs for the country. As a result, we have an inquiry to the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, concerning the closing of the offices of Eesti Energia. In fact, the real policy goes the other way. Only four of the 13 service points of the group are left by Eesti Energia. Since 1 August, Eesti Energia's offices operate in Tallinn and Tartu. In addition to Tallinn and Tartu, Elektrilevi, a network company belonging to the group, can also deal with Jõhvi and Pärnu. Service points are closed in Jõgeva, Kärdla, Paide, Põlva, Rakvere, Rapla, Valga, Viljandi and Võru. That leaves 21 people out of work. Given Estonia's regional policy, it is important that institutions and jobs are not concentrated in individual viable centres. As a state-owned company, Eesti Energia should be at the forefront of those who follow this policy and set an example. Unfortunately, the behaviour of state-owned companies is similar to the policy of closing banks' offices, which has contributed to the peripheralisation of different regions. In this regard, we have three questions. How is it possible that the state, as owner, will watch powerlessly when Eesti Energia closes its offices? Do you think that Estonia, as an e-state, has reached the point that every pensioner living in a village is only able to use e-channels and mobile applications to cope with his/her daily business, including signing documents? Why do state-owned enterprises not pursue regional policy in the interests of the state, but contribute to the periphery of the regions by their actions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-28_U3	Thank you. Colleagues Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-28_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry addressed to Secretary of Defense Sven Mikser regarding the following issues. In recent years the importance of the Defence League has increased significantly from a national defence perspective. Unfortunately, the funding of the Defence League has not increased at the same rate. Currently more than 21000 people are members of the Defence League. At the same time, the Defence League as an organisation is unable to contribute adequately to the training of the Defence League as a result of under-funding, as the amount of the defence budget largely below 8% does not compensate for the necessary costs. By interacting with the defence allies, it has become apparent that, among other things, there is a sharp shortage of equipment. The fact is that it is often not even possible to separate the forms of the Defence League for new members. That's the first raise of the problem. The second concerns one procurement. The starting conditions for public procurement do not take sufficient account of the security conditions and situation. Finally, we will address the amendments to the law on law enforcement that will enter into force at the beginning of 2016, from which we will see that there is not enough legal basis to involve the Defence Forces and the Defence Union in emergency situations. In this regard, we have three questions and we expect Sven Mikser to answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-28_U5	Thank you. There are no further drafts and inquiries from colleagues. I have adopted two inquiries on behalf of the Riigikogu's board of directors and if they comply with the provisions of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu will forward them to the addressee. Now the messages. Today, at the end of the plenary session, a meeting of the Sustainable Energy Support Group will be held in this Chamber, and Jaanus Marrand will be convened. The Estonian Tourism and Local Food Support Group recalls that the meeting of the Envoy Association starts at 12 o'clock, not 11 o'clock, as previously announced, in room L241. Now, please, let's do the presence check! There's 95 comms, no six. As we do not have any discussions on the agenda today, the session is closed. Closure of the sitting at 10.07 a.m.
