ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U1	Good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 11th working week of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, there is the handing over of inquiries and drafts. Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U2	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching today a draft law on the conservation copy. The Minister of Culture Indrek Saar represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of this bill in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U3	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of handing over the draft decision on behalf of the Centre Party Group, which aims to increase Estonia's independent defence capability. The content of the draft decision is a proposal to prioritise or develop four security measures, in particular, to the Government of the Republic. First of all, the protection of the population. We know that in a crisis situation, politicians and defence forces are best protected, but the civilian population is unprotected. Secondly, the necessary investments should be planned to increase the independent deterrence and defence capabilities of the armed forces. Third, to develop the concept and development plan for coastal surveillance and protection in Estonia to counter possible military threats from the sea. The concept must also support a peaceful state's commitment to maritime safety and environmental protection in territorial waters. The fourth security measure, which we consider necessary in the draft decision, is the development of military relations. In order to manage military operations, it is necessary to develop a national defence communications network with corresponding security requirements. We ask Parliament to take a constructive approach to the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U5	I have adopted two drafts, which will be decided on the basis of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Please, let's do the presence check! 88 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. Let us now set the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 11th working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 86 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, one against and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U6	The hall's calmed down. We will continue our inquiry according to the agenda: Members of the Riigikogu Tarmo Tamme, Dmitri Dmitriyev, Andrei Novikov, Vladimir Velmani, Mikhail Stalnukhini, Märt Sultsi, Mailis Repsi, Kadri Simsoni, Toomas Vitsuti, Peeter Ernitsa, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Musta, Erki Savisaare and Jüri Ratas. Tarmo Tamm will present it to us on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. We submitted an inquiry on 11 November and this concerns the concentration of posts in the administration of the Ministry of Finance. The coalition agreement sets out the principle whereby the number of government jobs decreases in line with the decline in the working age population. The aim is to reduce duplication of work, overregulation and red tape in the public sector for ministries and public officials. In total, 750 people are planned to be made redundant, or 1.5% of the public sector's workforce. The savings after redundancies would amount to around EUR 13 million per year. 11 people are planned to be made redundant in the administration of the Ministry of Finance. However, Rainer Laurits, Head of Public Relations of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, has claimed that the reduction in their membership will be greater than the government has foreseen. Their strategy focuses on making the organisation's activities more effective and reducing its composition. At the same time, almost 80 people were recruited there in 2012. During the recent reform, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board's workforce was reduced by 198 people. Then, in the light of the Income Tax Return Act, ten new employees were allowed to be taken into the Tax and Customs Board. It is now planned to reduce staff again. At the same time, we are in a situation where the Estonian tax hole was already 548 million euros in 2013. That is why we have four questions for the Minister. We would be pleased if the minister read these questions out and then answers them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U8	The question must be answered by Minister of Finance Sven Sester. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs and other members of the Riigikogu! I will answer questions from the questioners concerning the concentration of posts in the administration of the Ministry of Finance. So first the questions and then the answers to them. First of all, which positions in the Ministry of Finance are going to be laid off? It is requested to name both posts, agencies and the number of people. The first year's cut-off task is managed by the Ministry of Finance with a total of 41 employees. At present, the specific number of redundancies is still being clarified. The aim is, in cooperation with the governing bodies of the authorities in the area of government, including county governments and foundations established by them, the State Support Services Centre, Statistics Estonia, Environmental Investment Centre, RKAS, etc., to find substantive solutions for cutting down. The reduction in the number of staff cannot be done by mechanical means, the organisation of the agencies in general should be discussed, including the provision of support services and IT solutions. The change in the composition of the Tax and Customs Board has already been confirmed by a decree of the Minister of Finance, and according to this, the membership of the Office will be reduced by 168 posts as of 1 January 2016. Of these, 75 are vacant posts and 93 are actually laid off. The membership of the Tax and Customs Board will be 1512 posts. Question 2: '2016. The state budget for 2006 states that the Tax and Customs Board reduced its workforce by 11%, or 198, in the course of the reform, and is now planning to reduce it further. At the same time, 80 people were recently employed and 10 new employees were admitted to the Tax and Customs Board in addition to the low-paid tax refund law. How do you explain such reorganisations? ' During the economic downturn, the Government of the Republic adopted a decision to increase the control capacity of the Tax and Customs Board and in this connection 80 people were recruited at the time in order to prevent tax evasion increased during a period of crisis with the help of more workers. This step served its purpose and the collected tax revenue prevented a deterioration in the availability of public services. In a changed situation where tax receipts have improved and the business environment is more fair, where technological changes have been implemented and an annex to the VAT return has been introduced, the tax authorities no longer need such a large number of employees. The staff of the Tax and Customs Board was cut by 11% in 2011 and 2012 when the management of the various sectors was centralised and regional tax and customs centres were abolished. Ten new employees, including one employee at the Information Technology Centre of the Ministry of Finance, are planned to be recruited from 2017. The system development of the new law will be carried out with the existing workforce, but from 2017 people will be required to implement the system and to provide services to the advisory area. The third question: 'How has the quality of the work of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board been affected by this flow? ' The amendments introduced by the Tax and Customs Board have not been intended to reduce the number of employees by mechanical means. The changes in staff have been caused by the substantial restructuring of the work. In this context, the efficiency of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board has improved over time, not deteriorated. The Tax and Customs Board is currently in the process of creating a new strategy aimed at supporting the activities and development of businesses. Its content is, among other things, that the tax authority is even more engaged in the development of technology, which allows fewer workers, including fewer managers, to be able to handle part of the work. The development of the new e-Tax Board and e-Customs has started, making communication with the Estonian Tax and Customs Board even more effective. In the process of simplifying and modernising services, the aim is to reduce the need to communicate with the Agency in such a way that the activities are automated and that the e-Tax and Customs Board works in a context. However, this also means that the change will enable the Agency to give more motivation to its people to develop IT solutions for the new e-Tax Board and to be more prepared to cooperate with entrepreneurs. Question 4: "How will another reduction of the employees of the Tax and Customs Board affect the Estonian tax hole, which, as a result of the latest statistics, has reached 548 million euros in 2013? ' The latest developments in the tax environment and the accompanying improvement in tax culture provide an opportunity to change their activities more radically, also in the control department, where the new systems, such as the implementation of the VAT return and the working register, have fundamentally changed the control process so far. This will also make it possible to achieve good results with less labour. For example, in 2014, the Estonian tax hole decreased by more than 100 million euros, or 412 million euros, compared to 2013. This will be accompanied by the impact of this year's amendment to the VAT return, estimated at EUR 80 to 90 million. The KPMG study also shows that 55% of Estonian entrepreneurs considered the shadow economy to be a problem a year ago, with only 34% of entrepreneurs this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U10	Questions for the Minister. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I tried hard to listen to you, but I didn't really understand what you said about those ten new employees. You confirmed, as I understand, that ten new employees are coming to the IRS. My question is what their functions will be in the future. Are they really only involved in the implementation of the so-called Low Pay Tax Refund Act or are these functions broader? How much does refunding income tax to low-paid people increase the administrative burden?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U12	Thank you. As I said, ten new employees, including one person, who will come to the Information Technology Centre of the Ministry of Finance, are to be implemented not in 2016, but in 2017. In particular, these 10 new employees are needed for the service area advisory area, as well as for the implementation of the system. And that, as I said, in 2017.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U13	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U14	Thank you, manager. Minister of Finance! The number of people in itself is not very important. For me, it is important that the country misses nearly half a billion euros in taxes. It is one side of the problem that the state budget will not receive any money. The other side is that it creates unhealthy competition on the market. We know how some companies behave in the market. Unless they are disciplined and controlled, unhealthy competition will intensify. There's a lot of money in the game. A simple logic says that if you contribute one euro to the Tax and Customs Board, the ten euros will be refunded. Why is this rule not being followed, and why are people not being taken to reduce the tax gap?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U15	Thank you, good questioner! On the contrary, I think we are in complete agreement. I am pleased to hear that you also believe that channelling additional money into this sector would provide additional positive feedback. If you note, this is precisely the aim of recent legislative changes, as well as the fact that very large sums have been allocated to the tax administration in 2016 or next year's state budget. The head of the Tax and Customs Board has said that they have never had this level of investment before. We are talking about slightly more than EUR 20 million next year. But let us also see what legislative changes have been made by the honourable Riigikogu. Thanks to the creation of the employment register, we received a letter from over 10,000 people who were first registered as an employee, but it can also be said, for example, that more than 1 000 euro invoices have been declared. These are measures that have actually contributed to better tax collection. In 2016, more than EUR 20 million will be devoted to strengthening the capacity of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board. One major priority is the increasing use of modern IT tools, not only in the Tax and Customs Board, but also in other state-owned companies, which, of course, also helps to increase overall efficiency.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U16	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U17	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! The current coalition has set itself the objective of cutting red tape and delivering as little duplication as possible. One way to get to it is to lay off officials. But the more important thing is content. My question is: how much do you work with your party partner, the Minister of Justice, and people working in his administration in this area? I mean, he's supposed to be wearing more of that stuff. In addition to the changes in the Tax and Customs Board, do you have any measures or activities that would reduce the bureaucracy of entrepreneurship in particular?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U18	There were several questions in one block, I'm trying to answer them all. I'll start from a distance. When we talk about the division of responsibilities within the government, I am very pleased today to answer questions because they concern either the Ministry of Finance or the Tax and Customs Board. In its nature, the relevant picture is shaped and the Minister of Public Administration, whose direct task it is, conducts daily dialogue with the ministers of the sector. It does not have to be driven by the desire to make some kind of mechanical change, but by the Minister for Sectors in a particular dialogue versus the Minister for Public Administration to understand where the sector wants to change what it wants and, if changed, what effect it would have. Two important tasks must be fulfilled. The first is that there must certainly not be a situation where a citizen of the Republic of Estonia misses a particular service because there is no person who would provide that service. Another equally important objective is that there is no duplication. It is certainly worth examining, in essence, whether we have areas where work is actually duplicated. As regards the reduction of the bureaucracy related to entrepreneurship mentioned in the second half of your question, here, good Riigikogu, I inform you that four ministers have come up with a larger project, which we call a zero bureaucracy project. These four ministers are the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Public Administration, the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister of Enterprise. We asked different organisations to map their vision of Estonian legislative acts, which increase administrative bureaucracy to a greater or lesser extent. We have asked for specific legislation and also for the reasons why it is believed that one or the other legislation would either duplicate another act or require a specific set of data that goes beyond the standards. We asked business organisations, as well as individual companies, to provide their feedback by 1 December. Now you can say that the feedback was pretty good. The organisations and institutions that responded are more than 30, if I remember correctly, 32 of them. The proposals received by the Ministry of Finance are the institution that collected more than 200 of them. Their content was very different from that of more automated systems. Once you've noticed, we've reached the IT solutions. Businesses want pre-filled information, up to possible duplications. These proposals will now be worked on. We have agreed to distribute them among the ministries according to whose competence it is specifically to analyse one or another proposal. If there is any reason why the Ministry does not wish to implement a specific proposal, a working group will meet separately, with the involvement of companies. The aim is to understand why one or the other change is not right or cannot be implemented. I would like to say in this long story that the focus on reducing administrative bureaucracy is very high and tangible. We are of the opinion that the smaller the administrative bureaucracy, the greater the competitiveness. The greater the competitiveness, the greater the potential growth. That's what we're after.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U19	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U20	Thank you. Minister of Finance! This question is borne out by the fact that the Government of the Republic has agreed certain metrics according to which all sectors of government, starting from the tax administration to hospital personnel, will be hit by a flat-rate lay-off. Your response revealed that these redundancies have been agreed for next year. At the same time, you noted that in 2017, for example, the Tax Administration will get an additional bureaucratic burden and have to hire more people. Is that when the redundancy figures were agreed only by 2016 and 2017 is it possible to make up for what has been lost?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U21	Thank you. There were a number of questions once again embedded in one. I will try to answer these questions further. Let's get to it from a distance. In practice, this process was launched as soon as an agreement was reached. We do not have to wait for the 1 January 2016 process has already begun. I think that during the spring period when we are talking about a country's budgetary strategy, we will review whether these commitments on our shoulders have been met or will soon be fulfilled. We'll take a look at that side. As regards the programme for reducing staff of different institutions, different ministries and agencies, ordinary arithmetic has not been taken as a basis. Structural reforms in the past and mainly in the years 2010-2015 have also been taken as a basis. Perhaps one of the best examples is the Ministry of the Interior. If you look at reducing the composition of the Ministry of the Interior in the near future against the background of how many people there are in the offices of this Ministry, you will see that the proportions are clearly out of place. But there is a very clear reason for this: during the 2010/2015 period, this Ministry reduced its staff very strongly. So it's not just arithmetic that these plans are based on.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U22	Thank you, Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Tarmo Tamm takes the floor on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U23	Mr President! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm trying to understand the Minister's answers, but there's no way I can understand. How is it possible that all agencies and ministries in the country are given the task of concentrating a certain number of people? What's the result of the lay-offs, like no one's analyzing. We know, for example, that the tax hole is about half a billion, but the plan is to send people out of work. And they must be concentrated, even though the tax hole cannot be reduced if the staff is reduced. Once again, there is one simple principle: if you contribute one euro to the tax administration, we will get ten euros back. Whose interests is it really in order to reduce the tax gap? One way to reduce the tax gap is to get new X-rays that will be procured next year at border stations, as well as mobile X-ray tubes that will try to detect salasi cigarettes and other contraband. That's one way. But you can't concentrate people because you can't make a tax hole smaller without people. Once again, one of the greatest and most remarkable goals is that we have a healthy tax environment and pay taxes properly. Then there would be no unhealthy market competition. This is particularly felt in construction today. I can't imagine that IT technology will make it possible to eliminate the messing up in construction. That's a story we could actually go on with. These command boards have moved on to hospitals where 165 people should be made redundant. It's completely incomprehensible to me again. First of all, the government is not in a position to prescribe the foundation, because according to the Commercial Code, the foundation is managed by the Council and the order is carried out by the Health Insurance Fund. It can also be said that we should no longer bring together any police or rescue officers, because we would destroy the foundations of the country, and the functioning of the state would be called into question. There is certainly one reason why such a situation has arisen, that there is no economic growth. But there are also reasons for non-existent growth. For a long time, we have not completed administrative reform, state reform. At the moment, this is also the case for county governments. How many of these occupations are required in Estonia - foundations etc.? Let me give you a simple example. During this Prime Minister's time, three new ministerial positions have been created, but have they justified themselves? Why don't we start the lay-offs and cut-off at the right end? The Minister's strength in this fight, in any case! But I repeat, the IRS, the medical system, the police and the Rescue Board should certainly not be in areas where someone else can be brought together. All the more so as we are able to earn more income in the state budget by hiring new people into the tax administration. A sufficient number of people should be there until the difference between income and expenditure goes to zero or we reach a plus. That was, yes, the point of our questioning that we shouldn't go too far with the lay-offs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U24	There are no further requests to speak. The minister's happy face suggests that he too does not want to say anything anymore. This question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U25	After the hammer hit, you can register for speaking in a free microphone. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U26	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, It is, of course, very nice when the government coalition has set itself the goal of cutting red tape and duplication. Of course, I do not fully understand how the support staff of the North Estonian Regional Hospital means, the orderlys and cleaners, give birth to bureaucracy and duplication. But there's nothing you can do about it. It's a very old saying that fish starts to stink out of their heads, but they're still gnawing from the tail. In fact, this is often done completely incompetently. Higher government officials do not understand that we do not have any health care facilities, we have health care companies. The authorities shall be under the authority of the central authority or of the authority administered by the central authority. The following institutions are under the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs (I am trying to read you by heart): Medicines Agency, Health Board, National Institute for Health Development, Social Insurance Agency, Astangu Vocational Rehabilitation Centre, accommodation centre for persons applying for asylum, and I think that's it. Maybe there's another smaller facility. There are no hospitals under the command of the Ministry of Social Affairs. What can be done, ministers will change so quickly that they will not be able to make new door signs, they will not be able to get involved, especially when two ministers are trampling on each other's toes. If an order from the Ministry is sent to the hospital that you must either increase or reduce personnel or move furniture here and there, these illegal orders are not even open to debate. The hospitals could easily have ignored the redundancy order, but somehow the Chancellor of Justice began to be bothered with great fear. The office of the Chancellor of Justice will have to deal with the matter and there will probably be a decision that the order is not legal. Today, the Committee on Social Affairs tried to discuss 'Cooperations in health care facilities'. Once again, the Social Affairs Committee did not realise that we did not have any health institutions. There are private legal entities that are subordinate to their own management board, to their own supervisory board. And as for PERH and the University of Tartu Hospital, they have no owners. They have founders, but the founders' task is one-off. Very vividly, health establishments are not subject to ministry, a medical strike a few years ago. The medical staff then began to look for the negotiators who are the ones who run the health network. And it turns out the Ministry doesn't run. The Ministry writes regulations stating how many square meters per sick bed is prescribed. The Health Board is distributing licenses and, if necessary, taking them away. The Health Insurance Fund distributes money to sick homes through an honest, transparent competition, but does not run a health network. For a year and a half, the principal was sought, and eventually the doctors and sisters became partners at the negotiating table of the Hospitals Association. The Hospital Association is actually just a hospital-owner organization. Hospitals don't own, they're founders. If there's no one to run the network, it's like he's uncontrollable. The hospital network operates on a commercial basis and under weakly regulated market conditions. Our largest health network expert minister, Arto Aas, drew us today in the Social Affairs Committee a state tree with all kinds of accessories hung on branches, including the health network. I'd say that Christmas tree was beautiful, but it's still not a crook. Perhaps some minister thinks that he has power and power, that when a place is given, God gives reason, but he doesn't! If it were so that we could use our orders to regulate the laws of nature, we'd have snow outside the window right now. But it's not like that. No, it's not! There's no order in this house, there's no health care. Common sense says that if you want to unite someone in the government sector, we have two ministries with two ministers. Round up two ministers, two drivers, two secretaries, a whole bunch of counselors and other thugs, and you'll benefit more than 85 janitors. Whether it would be more useful for the state to bring together 85 cleaners or two ministers, please explain yourself! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U27	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U28	Ladies and gentlemen, Viktor and I have the same problems. I, too, want to talk about redundancies and cuts in health care establishments, which were discussed today in the Committee on Social Affairs under the sign of state reform. Of course, it is not a long time ago for anyone to know that the political decision on general hospitals has been made to significantly reduce the reception of specialist medical care. This includes Viljandi Hospital, Jõgeval, Sillamäe, Haapsalu Rehabilitation Centre, Rapla and many other places. In Rakvere Hospital, 2250 treatments are reduced, in Jõgeva 1000, in Rapla 1400 etc. In addition, it is, of course, planned to concentrate. For two regional hospitals, just about the North Estonian Regional Hospital and the University of Tartu Hospital, Jevgeni Ossinovski, as the previous speaker said, has made a political decision that staff must be made redundant by 165 employees in total. At the same time, we know that the university clinic, for example, has just completed an extension and added 100 treatment places. I'll ask you where the hang-up point is. Northern Estonia Regional Hospital also has expansion plans. At the same time, there are already missing about 100 nurses in these places have not been filled. Sisters just don't have that many. The training of the University of Tartu is not enough and doctors do the work of nurses, are working very hard. I'll ask you where the hang-up point is. Ministers are talking about some vague reduction in the volume of government administration, the concentration of jobs, but in the health sector, it is about the redundancy of hospital staff. And this, in turn, is nothing more than a reduction in treatment, a reduction in access to medical care, an increase in queues and a decrease in the quality of treatment. We know that the World Health Organisation, or WHO, has repeatedly argued that financing our health care is not enough and that very much people have to pay for themselves. They have also said that our health care is really "effective" in the last glimpse. At the same time, we see that, at a time when we could deal with substantive problems and improve access to medical care, the Minister justifies concentrating on the need to further improve the efficiency of the work. It is precisely this cost-effectiveness that is a great deal of concern, because we already have the last of the little money we have at our disposal, and it certainly is not suitable for the patient. I would remind you that six or seven years ago, when there was a major recession, most of the amounts of health care were cut. I am really surprised that Minister Ossinovski, the Social Democrat Minister, is supporting and contributing fully to the policy of the so-called thin state. As the previous speaker said, why should hospitals listen to his order of redundancy? Hospitals are private legal entities and such redundancy is even illegal. The Centre Party does not quite agree that all our health is private, but this decision has been made in its own time, the law must be enforced and taken into account. What happens if this command is ignored? The press has said that if hospitals do not really cut staff, the number of contracts may be reduced. Unfortunately, today's Social Committee meeting did not bring us closer to solving the problem either. They were just talking and talking, but no decision was taken. Everything's the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U29	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U30	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm going to continue my old sequel. Since the first group of topics is going to be exhausted, I wondered which direction I was going to go in. The following two areas are firstly the issues that are going on in the committees. In the end, all the Haltouristic activities that have led the Riigikogu to acquire the reputation of the rubber stamp have actually been formed in the course of the work of the committees. Secondly, it would be necessary to address the abuse of a group institution in the Riigikogu. But right now I think I'd rather change the subject in the new year, and in the first chapter of the last part of this sequel, I will still talk about the problems of the Riigikogu Chamber. The question has arisen as to whether it should be possible to vote on each amendment tabled. I think it should. I have seen and seen in my earlier life that the amendment, which received only one vote in favour of the committee, has received the overwhelming majority in the Riigikogu. Whether there has been a case of the fact that no vote of support in the Commission has been passed in plenary, I do not know. Possibly, it is, maybe it isn't. But as a principle, it should be put to the vote. For example, this experience of last week's practice in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party had worked very hard and submitted several proposals to amend the draft law on granting international protection to an alien. However, they could not put any proposals to the vote here because the small group did not have a representative on the committee and there was such a composition at the committee meeting that they received only one vote of support. The Rules of Procedure currently require at least two votes in favour. The paradox is that the Ministry of the Interior has taken most of their proposals very seriously and, on the basis of them, formulates its substantive improvements, which may have been slightly better written in linguistic terms. Essentially, their proposals will be taken into account, but formally, our Rules of Procedure will send them to length. The Free Party Group is also a small group, and if this procedure persists, we will, in principle, also never have the opportunity to vote on any of our amendments. We do not have two representatives in any committee. Now there's another thing. I discovered that on 11 December 2012 Jaak Allik's article entitled 'Member of the Riigikogu as a livestock' has appeared in the online publication of Postimees. It says more or less everything I have to say now three years ago. For example, Allik says: 'To ensure equal freedom of action for everyone was granted and to allow the formation of new political groups also in the course of the activities of the Riigikogu. Review the Riigikogu Labour and Rules of Procedure Act by increasing consensus democracy. This would mean extending the freedom of action of the opposition, whether or not with a request for a substantive debate and vote on all the drafts submitted. ' And it is also appropriate to quote this sentence: 'The Riigikogu Labour and Rules of Procedure Act has, however, deprived extra-group ambassadors of almost any opportunity to influence Parliament's work in substance. ' As I said, this is also true in the case of small groups. The source, with its keen eye, also says that paradoxically, the freedom of action of the delegates belonging to the government coalition is even lower than that of the opposition members who can afford certain extravagances, because nothing depends on them anyway. Finally, Alliku's resume is that a member of the Riigikogu, that is, the entire Riigikogu, has become a mute or a voting machine speaking to deaf ears.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U31	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U32	Mr. Chairman! Colleagues! The teacher walks down the street, and he's met by a respectable gentleman. The solid gentleman says, "Hello, dear Master Maret! Don't you remember me? 'No, I don't remember you. But how do you remember me? ' 'Dear Teacher, you're wearing the same coat as you were 20 years ago. ' According to the coat, I recognized it! So much for teachers' pay. There is a great deal of talk about Estonia's security risk. The security risk starts at home, from kindergarten to school where we don't want to pay or take responsibility. Now it was announced that the child's school bag should not weigh more than four kilos and that there must be a tablet inside where the child can read from. The child must read not from the book, but from the tablet. At the same time, writers and scientists say that human empathy begins with reading. The more a child reads from a computer rather than from a paper book, the more he has empathy. Empathy is the only thing that separates us from the animal. Do you need an extra salary for middle school teachers? Of course you don't have to. For 20 years, the same coat is on. Teacher doesn't have time to spend money, he goes to work at 7:30 in the morning and comes from work at 10:00 in the evening. He doesn't have time to spend money. You can eat at school, too. Well, it's soup day twice a week, you get it without money, you don't have to pay for it. It's okay. It's okay. High school? For what? Whether state gymnasiums or not, we send a hundred percent of the children there. Municipal upper secondary schools we die out, we put more payment obligations on the local government. Who cares? Strategy, security. Who will protect our country? Who's gonna pay us a pension? Who will heal our wounded? Who treats our wounded, just sick people? What is a security risk? To quote the classics, each chain is as weak as its weakest link. We've got all the weak links, pull the chain any way you want, it's gonna break down everywhere. Who are we protecting like this? Who can we fight when people lack motivation, people lack will, faith, home love, holy family? If all these values have spread out, who are we protecting? Where is this country? Who are you setting boundaries for? What are the characteristics of the state other than the anthem, the flag, and the language? There's nothing else! There's no border! There are no classic country traits. Soon there won't be a classic family. Dear people, decision-makers! Look beyond two years! Look how you have become literate! You're not Aboriginal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U33	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U34	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, few voting machines, to quote Jaak Allik! I want to put together a few words about this year. The budget has been adopted, more than 100,000 Estonians have to work abroad to earn their bread. Foreign banks are taking their profits, billions of them peacefully out of the country, leaving us naked parties. Many good people have to struggle for three years to get one pension year, etc. We have already sent the draft direct election to the President for the 12th time. The people do not need to choose their president. We sent down water in this hall for the payment of transitional payments to farmers. Let the farmers chew grass with their cows. The daily newspaper and Delfi have published a ranking of influential people. All these games are great, in the Lube we started it. However, if you look at these lists, which include several of our esteemed colleagues, I wonder what effect it will actually have. Recall the recent draft transitional support which was voted down. After picking up Maaleht, I saw my dear dear colleague Jaanus Marrand on the front page. Can a famous farmer have any effect if he is unable to provide transitional support? Only recently, the esteemed Auditor General Alar Karis was the second highest ranking of influential civil servants. But what is the effect of a man who has not been able to trade EUR 250,000 out of the state budget for the third year in order to start checking how nearly a billion euros awarded to the Ministry of Defence for arms procurement every year are being used? Maybe there's crabs in there. Or we could go a little further. The leader of the so-called Russian rankings, Mr Ossinovski, has promised to raise teachers' salaries to 120% of the average. At the same time, we have heard in this Chamber what the current Minister of Education has said about how difficult it is to achieve this. But these are the problems of our home frog team. The great world is much more complicated. At the Paris climate conference, an Estonian girl got into a picture with the American Foreign Minister. At the same time, we have not heard what it means to Estonia. What do we have to do? Where does the necessary money come from, and ultimately who is responsible for all this? Earth warming must be kept within one and a half degrees and Estonia must also contribute here. China's contribution is, of course, colossal, with one third of greenhouse gases coming from this very, fast-growing economy. This is a very specific question and a topic on which we should begin to ask ourselves in this Chamber as well. Can I have a few more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U35	No, there's no extra time. Is three seconds enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U36	Yes, thank you! In any case, Christmas peace was declared to the people of Jõgeva. Soon the hunters will announce a Christmas peace to the animals as well. So everyone's happy coming to Christmas!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U37	Our good practice provides that a free microphone can be spoken once. Viktor Vassilyev, do you have a procedural remark? Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U38	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. The procedural remark is that there has been a lot of talk here about all kinds of issues, but it was only my colleague Ernits who started talking about it. I want to keep talking about this in recognition of her. In fact, he rightly stated the ultimate truth that the year is coming to an end. The year is really coming to an end, and now maybe it's the last time you can thank everyone. I thank everyone for letting us do our job here. Thank you to the good journalists who have not quite killed us, and thank you to the good fellows from the other political groups with whom we have been able to hold substantive debates.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U39	Thank you, Viktor! That procedural remark was very correct. The year is really coming to an end.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U40	Wait! I would also like to thank the employees of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, for those good people who have been here for a long time at work because of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-14_U41	I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 15.54 p.m.
