ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Good morning. We will begin the session of the seventh working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I will address an inquiry to the Minister for Health and Labour concerning the sickness benefit system. Health is one of the greatest values of man that a country must fully support. While in good health, a person is better able to support his country with a workpan to the Estonian economy. According to the Estonian sickness benefit system, the first three days of stay are currently unpaid. This situation has led many people to work sick in Estonia for a long time, because it is not possible for them to stay at home economically. If earlier, before the amendment, the sickness benefit was paid from the second day, then now on the fourth day and not more than 80%, but 70% of the salary. In addition, from the payment of the sick leave until the eighth day of illness, the State made an obligation on employers. Trade unions have drawn up a petition. They claim that there is complete injustice and that the law needs to be amended so that compensation for sick days starts on the first day. Many companies share the same view as the trade union. The current sickness benefit system is unsustainable in view of long-term health and therefore we have a number of issues for the Minister for Health and Labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U3	There doesn't seem to be any more calls. I have adopted an inquiry on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further proceedings. Let's move on to the messages. There's an important message. In fact, today, after the plenary session, a meeting of the Setomaa Support Group, convened by Priit Sibul, will take place in this Chamber. We're looking forward to a very active participation. Good fellows, I'd like your help now. We'll have a presence check. 83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 18.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U4	Let's start working on today's agenda. The only item on the agenda is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Riigikogu Election Act 3 initiated by the Estonian Free Party Group. I would like Mr Andres Herkel, member of the Riigikogu, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U5	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The faction of the free party submits a draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act. The essence of this is, in short, that the way in which personal mandates are obtained remains the same, and the way in which circuit mandates are acquired remains the same, but the way in which compensation mandates are obtained changes in the Riigikogu elections. This changes so that it is not based on a list drawn up by a party...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U6	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good fellows, there's too much noise in the hall. Please respect the waitress and honor those who wish to listen! Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U7	Thank you! So the principle is that when you receive compensation mandates, the candidates rank according to the weight of their personal votes. This can be calculated as a percentage of the district's basic quota. The simple quota of the district is known to depend on the number of mandates in the district and the number of voters who took part in the elections. It can also be said that this depends on the size of the circuit and on the mandates that are shared there. Simply put, this transition is completely open to lists where the idea and idea of a ranking set up by a party disappears. To present the draft, I have a few comments to make. First of all, I myself am not the first time before the Riigikogu with this bill. In the previous composition, the Social Democrats also defended the principle of a similar draft. Juku-Kalle Raid, Tõnis Lukas and the speaker also submitted a similar draft. Unfortunately, both of them fell into the table drawer of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs after the completion of the first reading, i.e. they were not even taken out. Let's hope it goes better this time. Perhaps it would also be appropriate to point out how the principle that the number of personal votes plays more, and the place on the list is less important, has gradually strengthened over time in the Estonian elections. My point is that voters often still do not understand that the weight of votes is, in fact, extremely important when it comes to obtaining mandates. There has also been a very important change, which was initially not the case in the early 1990s. In order to obtain the compensation mandate, the candidate must collect at least 5% of the total amount of the district's basic quota, which is, in effect, some 300-400 votes. It is not possible to reach the Riigikogu with fewer votes. The second trend is that the proportion of compensation mandates has declined steadily since 1992 until the last elections. To a large extent, this fact has also been caused by one legislative amendment made more than ten years ago. The amendment is that, in order to obtain a district mandate, it is not necessary to collect a full quota of votes, but it is sufficient to have 75% of the full quota. Speaking in the language of figures, in 1992 there were 60 compensatory mandates in the Riigikogu, in 1995 there were 52 in 1999, 46 in 1999 and only 27 in 2003. There was a change in the difference, so it became easier to get a circuit mandate. There were 26 compensation mandates in 2007, 19 in 2011 and now 22 in 2015. This does not include substitutes for which it is understandable that this figure may rise. The calculation of the composition of the Riigikogu is based on the composition chosen on the election day. As a note, however, there have been, to a large extent, among the recipients of the compensation mandate, those who would have obtained a mandate even on the basis of the weight of the votes in the case, if our current bill had been in force in this form. Generally speaking, this amendment would change the composition of the Riigikogu by 10%, not more. Its value, however, is that the innovation will create a much more level playing field for candidates on the list. It would also remove the tension of political parties in the formation of a nationwide list. It would certainly also favour more independent and reliable, perhaps more well-known candidates, for the public. The electoral system itself would become much more understandable to voters. Two more points, and they are technical or adjoining, in case we proceed with the procedure of this bill. Firstly, the draft law, in the form we present it, does not come out directly, but, in principle, it could also consider abolishing the national list as such, because if such an amendment enters into force, it does not make sense any more. Secondly, there is the motive, to which I am also pointing out here, that we are based on the principle of amending one law at a time. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that this concerns local government elections, that Tallinn is the only local government in Estonia that exceeds the limit of the number of inhabitants laid down in the law and where the elections take place in several districts and is a citywide list. However, in the case of a suburban list, there is no limit to the votes. The consequence of this is that the Tallinn Council, if I remember correctly, is also for the last elections, if there was a citywide list of ambassadors, whose personal number of votes extends to severalteen and not higher. That could be a problem. If this change is accepted in the case of Riigikogu elections, it would make sense if, either in the form of an amendment or a separate draft, a similar amendment were made to the local government council election law, which also sets the criterion for the weight of votes, not just on the list of seats. However, as I said, this now concerns only one Estonian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U8	Good waitress, thank you! You have at least one question. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U9	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! The debate on the openness or closure of electoral lists is nothing new. This has been held here before, and it is remembered that the previous composition of the Riigikogu made the lists of European Parliament elections open. The Estonian state has not collapsed and the political parties are still receiving their votes, just a few single candidates will receive fewer votes after that. This is probably not a concern in the Riigikogu elections, as the threshold is high enough. But now my question. You reached the point in the last paragraph of your report that if you change these two paragraphs, it makes national lists pointless at all. In that case, there should be another paragraph that would lose them at all, so that there would be only circuit lists. So what's the point of this nationwide ranking?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U10	Thank you. Yeah, we also came to the conclusion that there's not much point. That is why perhaps it would be reasonable to eliminate it at all, so that the joy of sequencing is left to the circles. Certainly, this aspect, which is the front number of the district, plays a role because it gives a psychological advantage to candidates who are on the circuit list above, although it is also solved by offering all kinds of ideas, such as alphabetic sequences, etc. One point concerning the elections to the European Parliament. It was not during the previous term, but during the previous one when it was changed. It is recalled that one dusty bill was removed from the table drawer after an individual candidate had made an excellent result in the European Parliament elections, making great use of its rhetorical criticism against the closure of the lists. In this sense, the electoral systems in Estonia could be quite uniform. When we talk about open lists, they could be even at all elections to local governments, the European Parliament and the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U11	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U12	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Mr. Herkel! The initiative is undoubtedly welcome and the amendment of the law is certainly necessary, but there is a major problem here in Estonia, as we know, the electoral district is not the same size, or the voter's voice is different in circles. How does this legislative amendment approach this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U13	Thank you. I agree, in principle, with the remark that the electoral disproportion has become too great to take, for example, Harju and Raplamaa, which are the largest, and beside it, Lääne-Viru County. However, the fact that the solution we have proposed would, in principle, be entangled behind this disproportation is, in my opinion, not correct, because the quota is still calculated in all circles according to one methodology. All the people who have participated in the elections must be taken into account and divided by the number of conditional mandates in the respective district. This is, of course, different in circles, and the sums will also be different, but they will not in themselves go into such a large amount of disproportation. So the problem you raised, I wouldn't tie it to the bill. But basically the point of weighing it is probably because the circles are now very different in size and it's not quite right.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U14	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I did not understand why you brought an example of Tallinn where people have been elected council members with a few dozen votes. There are many local governments in Estonia where people have been elected with only a few votes. I would like to remind you that a separate law has been made for Tallinn and the number of ambassadors has been strongly raised and the city-wide lists have been established. It is clear, however, that this makes no sense at all in the case of local government. What do you think of this situation? Perhaps the law should really be changed back and let the local government, Tallinn, decide for itself how large a council could be?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U16	Mr Korb, first of all, thank you for your question. If a person gets a vote in a large part of Tallinn and gets to the council with it, it is still a completely different matter than that in some very small municipalities, where there may be only a few hundred voters, the candidate who received ten votes will also reach the council because he clearly deserves a mandate in the ranking list. So these are essentially different things. If you criticise the way it was in its own time in 2008 when the Local Government Council Election Act was amended, which, as we know, concerned Tallinn and was initiated as another amendment to the law for which protests were made, and in the end, the right law was amended, then this procedure was certainly very controversial and did not honor Parliament. In the end, however, the amendments were adopted in the context of the right law and legally. It is regrettable that in the course of the discussion at the time, attention fell completely out of focus because there is no mechanism that values the number of votes on the citywide list, which is why the members who have received some votes can actually be at the Tallinn Council. But as far as the size of the Tallinn Council is concerned, this topic can, of course, be discussed by the Riigikogu in another context and under another law. I also think that maybe he's gotten a little too big.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U17	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U18	Thank you very much for your good presentation. Thank you very much for raising this very important constitutional issue. There's something to talk about. There's something to argue about. I'm just reminding you, do you realize how radical a constitutional amendment we are facing? Namely, the current system of lists has been discussed and discussed in the so-called Tammsaare ring in 1928 with the participation of Diamond, Oldekop, Klesment, Hirsch and other outstanding Estonian lawyers. It stressed that Estonia's democracy is based not on the democracy of individuals, but on the democracy of political parties. Whoever has ever read Oskar Luts knows very well the number of the Följeton, where not the name of the person was put in the box in the election, but the list of the party was marked on the note. In it, Klesment and Hirsch saw the stability of the Estonian state. Maybe we won't need it anymore. But I just wanted to ask if you know that you want to remake 1928.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U19	Thank you. I have more, I have to admit, I have to say, thought that we are going to reform this electoral law, which, indeed, in part, based on the analogy you have referred to, was introduced in Estonia in the early 1990s. Step by step, there's been a move in that direction. Here is certainly the question of whether political parties are prepared to promote perhaps less well-known hardworking Members through their list mechanism. Our starting point is that, at the beginning of the 1990s, this capacity probably existed when analysing the activities of the VII and VIII Riigikogu. People who are relatively unknown to the public, i.e. unknown at the time of the elections, but who later built up the Estonian legal system and statehood effectively, did indeed often come from lists drawn up by parties with compensatory mandates. The Free Party will certainly manage such a balanced approach, and our group will be proof of this. We are concerned, however, about what has sometimes happened in the larger parties, where seats are distributed for 'intra-party' services, which are somewhat doubtful to the public. So in this respect, life has moved on and we are trying to respond to it with our legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U20	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U21	Thank you. Dear waitress, Basically, I share the idea that electoral laws need to be reviewed from time to time. Secondly, I understand that this draft requires quite a number of technical clarifications. I am not going to question them now, so the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will be able to work with them. But my question concerns the package for the development of democracy in the Free Party in the wider sense, namely electoral laws. Is this bill now the only programmed proposal of the Free Party to amend electoral laws, or is it one of many? If this is one of many, maybe you can give us a little overview of what are the other places where you can see that electoral laws need to be amended this year or in the coming years?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U22	Thank you. First of all, this is the most appropriate time to change electoral laws, because they will not be changed just before the elections and there will be some time to elect local governments. I referred to one problem in the same local council election law. We are certainly planning to come up with a further amendment to the democratic package, either in the election view or in other aspects, even before going on summer leave. In principle, these things could also be presented in one law, not as large a bunch as the tax law that has just been passed on to us, but obviously the most appropriate thing is to take it from the problem. Otherwise, part of the regulation we have proposed, which is not acceptable to anyone, may become an obstacle to dealing with all other things. More specifically, in answering this question, one thing we have been thinking about is whether it would not be appropriate to regulate the length of the electoral list in the municipal elections. As we know, in Riigikogu elections, it is regulated, but here in Tallinn, for example, we have achieved an interesting situation where political parties run to the length of the list. In the previous elections, the lists reached several hundred. I don't always understand what the mechanism is, but there's also a list of candidates who collect zero votes or one vote, and there's been quite a lot of them. Perhaps it would be more appropriate to set some reasonable limit to ending the race for the length of the lists.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U23	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U24	Thank you, manager. Andres, isn't this bill meant around the corner, meaning, hiddenly, with the strongest support in Estonia for undermining the party and expressing distrust for the ruling Reform Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U25	Thank you. No, the Free Party Group will certainly not put forward such drafts on the basis of such motives. I would rather highlight the positive aspects. The various parties have probably considered this idea for quite a long time. It should be clear at present that at least four of the political parties in the Riigikogu have, in some form, expressed their support for the principle we are proposing. And I think the other two are on their way. This was also demonstrated by the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U26	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U27	Thank you. Dear waitress, I have a question. Your group recently supported a draft, a draft reduction in the election age, precisely to involve more young people in politics. Now you're saying that long lists are something bad. Is there something wrong with the fact that all political parties involve more people in the elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U28	Thank you. No, I'm not saying it's necessarily something bad. I was pointing out that energy may be going to the wrong place, rather than focusing on the campaign to look for people, rather than on the substance of the policy. As far as the reduction of the electoral age is concerned, the 16-year-olds are not expanding the circle of candidates, but are expanding the electoral circle. And as far as the Free Party is concerned, I believe that we have made a sole decision on this matter. Since there are obviously both pros and cons on this issue, we did not have a common position. So, ultimately, we used all the colored buttons in the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U29	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U30	Thank you. I have an additional question about the fact that young people were given the right to choose but not to apply. Do you not see this as an opportunity to manipulate political technology? Young people get involved, but they're kind of one-sided.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U31	Thank you, dear questioner. I may also have some personal opinion and arguments for and against this issue, but I was not a waitress on this draft, and I am not presenting this draft at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U32	Good waitress! You have more questions, I'm sorry! We're faster. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U33	Thank you, good manager. One last question. The situation you want with this draft can also be achieved by other methods. Other methods are used in other countries. I am interested in the opinion of the Free Party on the so-called Latvian system. In the elections to the Latvian Seim, both positive and negative votes are known to be given, which ultimately give the same effect to those who have the support and trust of the people. For the Steinogram, I do not want to say that I would make or support this proposal, but I am interested in your position. Are there other solutions for reaching out to the same subject or as an alternative to an open and closed list?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U34	Thank you. First of all, I am convinced that the electoral system is something that will be home and become a habit in society over decades. I am therefore sceptical about very radical changes, such as the transition from a proportional electoral system to a majoritarian or similar. The Latvian system must probably be seen in the context of Latvia. This will certainly have a certain positive effect. People who build their political careers and electoral campaigns on very sharp contrasts are losing their supporters through their 'no' votes. It may have some sort of organizational idea, but when considering all pros and cons, I do not think that I would bring such a thing into the Estonian electoral system.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U35	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U36	Thank you, manager. First of all, thank you for your answer to the previous question. I was a little scared that you weren't planning any other changes, and you're still thinking. But in this sense, we appreciate a modest approach to the electoral system. Often I agree with you that doing things is more reasonable than saying great words. If this law had come into force earlier, it is remembered that you and Tõnis Lukas and Juku-Kalle Raid have issued one bill, what would the Free Party Group now look like? I'm asking if we can discuss this together. If this law had come into force during the previous parliamentary term, would the Free Party Group be worse than the tree? As far as I know, Jüri Adams wouldn't be sitting in this hall, which I'd be very sorry about. It's exactly the same with the Hatter.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U37	Thank you. In the same way, all the other groups can be analysed, but I would not do that in any way. You see, when the Free Party went to the elections, it fully understood what the electoral system was and how it would be appropriate to place candidates. In such a case, if the electoral system were to be different, the placement of the candidates would have been different. Perhaps we would have entrusted Jüri Adams with the status of a first number in the district. But since he found that his ability to contribute to the campaign was not so great at the time, he accepted a different status. I'm really glad he's here, too. And I am pleased that you are very pleased that Jüri is in Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U38	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U39	Thank you, manager. Ladies and gentlemen, As far as participation in electoral campaigns is concerned, I have noticed that the electorate is concerned about the competence and openness of legislative power. Political parties see such a closed system, which secures its position with large funding, with closed lists. Would this draft be a means of giving the electorate such confidence that the policy is not so complex, is not so closed, and above all takes into account the will of the voters?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U40	Thank you. I also tried to stress in this report that the impact of this amendment on Parliament in itself is likely to be rather marginal. However, I highly appreciate this public confidence. The voters are waiting for open lists, because it is a very clear system, it is possible to say very clearly that yes, the candidates who have received more votes will be able to get on, nothing has been decided anywhere in the back rooms, which I think are also completely mysticised. In this sense, I think that this change would certainly be positive for the development of Estonian political culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U41	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U42	I'd like to continue with Küllik's Hatter question. The question is very simple: is politics really not difficult?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U43	Thank you for your question. I don't know, politics is quite complicated for me, but maybe it's not that complicated for some people asking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U44	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I ask Mart Nuti, member of the Constitutional Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U45	Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U46	We welcome the President of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U47	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed this issue on Tuesday 12 May at the regular meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In addition to the members of the committee, Andres Herkel, representative of the initiator, as well as Priit Vinkel, Head of the Elections Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, and Riho Kangur, adviser to the Legal and Analytical Department, had been invited to this debate. The debate was constructive and friendly. I am not going to go over what Mr Herkel has just introduced here in the plenary session, but I note a few comments that had been invited by the parties. Priit Vinkel commented on this question, which would change if this bill became a law. He pointed out, as did the rapporteur, Mr Herkel, that the draft with similar content was not at all the first time in the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and the main result would be that the entire parliament of 101 would be formed directly on the basis of votes cast by the voters. The amendment would eliminate the possibility for political parties to bring persons who are not very popular in the district to the Riigikogu, but are important in the political party hierarchy. This concerns people who receive quite a few votes personally, but are placed in relatively high positions on the party list. The difference also lies in the names of the candidates who would fill the compensation mandate. The national list of candidates would become a rudimentary from the point of view of the electoral order, as it would have no meaning other than to highlight the political party's 'topside'. This in itself does not necessarily mean that a national list may not be submitted. However, this would allow the party to express their preference. On the other hand, the position could be in the alphabetic order of information. But indeed, in a situation such as that which is essential to explain the results of the elections, it would not be important to set up a national list. The clerk also found that the two lists could create confusion in the electorate's minds and would not understand what the national list would add. The adviser to the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu analysed the impact of the proposed amendment would have had it used earlier if the system had been in use since 2007, for example. Three Riigikogu elections have taken place during this period. Riho Kangur pointed out that 22 compensation mandates were distributed in 2015 and if the allocation of mandates had been based on a percentage of the basic quota, the compensation mandate would have remained the same in only five cases. In addition, the advisor also provided comparative data on the use of open and closed lists in other EU countries. This showed that in most countries where a proportionate electoral system is used, mandates are allocated on the basis of open lists. I have this data on paper, but it would be extremely difficult to start reading it from this remote control and describing it in detail. So if anyone has a closer interest in materials, then the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will be able to get acquainted with them. The Commission also discussed some other issues raised by the Members of the Commission. Firstly, the question, which has actually been partially answered, that if the national list still remains open, what principle might be the preference of the initiators when it is drafted. The initiators stressed that this could be left to the party to decide whether the arrangement would be alphabetic or indicate the preference of the parties. The question of d'Hondt exponents was also raised in the Commission, i.e. whether the initiators consider that the modified d'Hondt method currently in force could remain in the same form or be abolished. As we know, since the 1992 elections, d'Hondt's exponent has been used and has given more votes to the lists that received the elections, and has not, in any way, punished fewer award points. The initiators replied that we could go back to the so-called ordinary d'Hondt method, but in Estonia it was valid before 1934. The Government of the Republic did not take a position on this draft law. The government is generally based on the principle that electoral topics should be prerogative of the Riigikogu and that the Government of the Republic should not prescribe them. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs is also presented with the position of radical democrats, i.e. NGO Radical Democrats. In their view, this amendment is not radical enough. They considered that such a change would make the electoral system even more difficult. Whether it makes the system more complex or easier, the Commission did not discuss it, it is up to everyone. They indicated that they would support the transition to a national circuit with such a change. So in that case, the current circuit system would be replaced by one nationwide circuit. The Commission took procedural decisions, all of which were consensual. First of all, the proposal to put the debate on this draft law on the plenary agenda. a by 26 May. Secondly, propose that the first reading be completed. Thirdly, to propose a deadline of 10 working days for amendments, which means that the deadline would be 5.15 p.m. on 9 June 2015. Fourthly, appoint a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, a humble person before you, Mart Nutt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U48	Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U49	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! Today is 28 May, and the Commission has proposed that the draft be on the agenda of 28 May and not 26 May. I'm just saying for the verbatim, I'm not gonna get the wrong idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U50	Thank you. I'm afraid you're right. The Commission originally planned the 26th and the new information is indeed not included in the protocol. Thanks for the clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U51	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U52	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, The issue we are discussing today has indeed been addressed in this Chamber in different configurations for at least the last 23 years. It turned out that in 1994, for example, convinced liberal Tiit Käbin made quite similar proposals. It has been supported here and has been happily launched several times, but after the first reading, it has stopped. Do you think, as a highly experienced member of the Riigikogu, that this time you will be able to complete this process?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U53	I don't really appreciate it now. I can say on my own behalf that I support the further processing of this draft. If I dare to draw conclusions from previous political parties' statements which, although not raised at the committee meeting, there are quite a number of political parties in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, such as the IRL and the Social Democrats, who have supported the open list. So I think we will continue to debate this issue, and the majority of the Riigikogu will decide on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U54	Good waitress! I just have a comment or a question to clarify. Ten working days should be 11 June at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U55	Thank you. This is linked to the same fact that the Commission had originally set a second date for discussion. So in that case, the explanation is correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U56	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, Mihkel Rau, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U57	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear colleagues! I would first of all like to thank the Free Party, personally and on behalf of our hard-working Social Democratic Group, for devoting your first draft to deeply and fundamentally social democratic ideas. After all, the idea of open lists is that the voter's vote is treated more equally and that the voter's will is finally clear and visible in the election results. Social Democrats have always been pro-open lists, and they will certainly remain so now and in the future. Support for open national lists, among other things, we have published in our electoral programme and we have also found an opportunity to address it in the government's agenda. In particular, there is a point which provides for the government to harmonise electoral laws and to analyse the possibilities for stimulating political competition, including an analytical analysis of the maximum level of advertising costs, the payment of bail, the proportion of the state-wide list institution and electoral circles. I understand that the word 'analytical' has been the subject of a number of understandable connoisseurs in this house this spring, but I am convinced, as an idealist, that the word 'analyse' in this matter means precisely on behalf of what it means that the draft proposed by the Free Party will be treated with full seriousness and respect and that this proposal will arrive at the law as soon as possible. However, coming back to the content of this bill, I would like to point out once again that we certainly want to see a country that is the face of its own people and not of the technologists in the dark back rooms. Open and fair electoral lists would support our vision of open and honest democracy. Reciprocating candidates on the basis of their election results on national lists would significantly increase the voter's decision-making weight in the formation of the Riigikogu. Just as I, in my limited legal knowledge, have understood the world of justice, it is not only that something is right and fair, but that it must also stand and appear right and just. Relocation of elected votes according to the number of votes received would, to put it mildly, be a sensible solution. It is right and fair that members of the Riigikogu become precisely the elected people who our citizens want to see in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, and not the people they do not want to see here. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U58	Thank you very much. I now ask Jüri Adams, representative of the Estonian Free Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U59	I am not so educated that I know what proportional electoral systems have to do with the history of social democracy. The first presentation of the proportional electoral system in the history of Estonian political thought, which I know, was a book published in 1907 by translator and political thinker Bernhard Linde. '. In this, Linde argued that a proportionate electoral system should be in place in the future. His ideas back then came true. You can talk about elections on a very different scale. Perhaps the most exciting thing is how the change in the electoral system would affect the electoral channels or election tactics of my political fellows and myself in the next elections. But I'm not from that right now, I'm from a more historic observation. The formation of electoral systems in different countries is certainly seen as a long-term process. I am not going back to Bernhard Linde, but the current electoral system was very similar during Estonia's first independence until the end of 1933. The main difference between the system in force at the time and the current one is that all mandates were shared in circles during that period. Our current proposal would certainly be a step backwards towards this system. If we look at what has been happening in Estonia since the autumn of 1992, when the current system was used for the first time, two processes can be observed. On the one hand, voters are increasingly accustomed to this system. We can talk about getting home to the electoral system. The more some electoral system gets home, the harder it will be to change it in the future. On the other hand, there has been a process of refining and clarifying the system over these years. It has had many practical aspects, but the process has also been in response to criticism and miscalculations or miscalculations. The three most important changes that have been made have been the following: firstly, the length of the lists was capped, secondly, the minimum number of votes received and, thirdly, the share of the mandates distributed in the district was increased. Our current proposal goes into a series of similar clarifications. That would not be quite the last important clarification, perhaps a few more would be needed. One question that certainly needs to be answered is how many mandates should be held in Estonian electoral circles. There are currently 4 to 49, which is an abnormally large range. We have three electoral laws that are quite slightly different from each other. Obviously, from the point of view of all "consumers," i.e. a simple citizen, a school student and a member of the electoral committee, it would be reasonable for Estonia to take the course of making one general electoral code that applies to all three and eliminates pointless duplication. If there are any differences in the elections of the Riigikogu, local governments and the European Parliament, they can also be presented in a single code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U60	Thank you. I now ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U61	Mr. Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, As I said earlier, this bill is certainly welcome from the point of view of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and its objective is good. It is also quite clear in the context of the previous elections that the Estonian electorate is looking forward to improving the political system and the political culture. Political culture begins with the electoral system. We agree, in principle, with this, too, that we are finally conservatives, that the electoral system can also be changed by tiny pieces. In this sense, of course, we would also like to see the President's direct election, and if this bill comes into this Chamber, we will definitely support it. Of course, we would also like to see the d'Hondt system disappear. This is why our party lost one seat in Parliament. Of course, we would like to see the electoral ranking, i.e. the 5% threshold, in the circles throughout the mandate. All of this we can do here. The current change in the electoral system is certainly a step in the right direction. For those with a great bow, who sincerely seem to believe that defending the fundamental principles of democracy is their sole revir, I say that this is not actually the case. But in this case, it looks like we're on the same side as the Snots. If so, so be it. In this regard, I would like to address all the coalition ambassadors, although I do not believe that anything good or right can come from the Reform Party. I will, however, address the remaining coalition ambassadors. I urge you to build on your conscience and think about what has been advocated in the past and press the right button at the right moment! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-28_U62	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 3 be completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to draft 3 by s. a 11 June at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the only item on the agenda is also closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 10.55 a.m.
