ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-10_U1	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday of the 10th working week. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. There's no call. Please, let's do the presence check! 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, none 19.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-10_U2	Let's start working on today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft Act 65 on the amendment of the Accounting Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? We do not recommend opening negotiations, and so we can go to the preparation of the final vote. Our rules require a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu for the adoption of bill 65. Before the final vote, we will do a presence check. 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 16. I will put the bill 65 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. The result of 64 members of the Riigikogu, against 5 and 1 impartially, the draft law amending the Accounting Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as 65 laws. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-10_U3	Let us move on to the second item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft Act 71 on the amendment of the Public Information Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I ask Andres Anvelt, member of the Constitutional Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-10_U4	Mr President! Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Before you has been discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs about the amendment of the Public Information Act and the related amendment of other laws Bill 71 and this is a second reading. The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft and prepared it for second reading three times, i.e. on 17 November, 23 November and 7 December. On the first...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-10_U5	Good waitress, I sincerely apologize to you! Good colleagues, please respect the waitress! Hello! Please respect the waitress and those members of the Riigikogu who wish to listen! Thank you! Waiter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-10_U6	Thank you. On the first day of the debate, the two amendments tabled by the representatives of the Free Party, Monika Haukanõmme and Jüri Adams, received by the deadline of 11 October, were mainly dealt with. The content of the first amendment is that the law should always replace the word pair'reuse of information' by the word pair'second use of information'. It was a long discussion. The question was how much use is made of the expression'recovery' other than in the laws of the Public Information Act. The Director General of the Data Protection Inspectorate who was present, who also provided answers to questions, said that the word in question was not used elsewhere in the law in relation to information. However, during the long debate, the Commission still reached a vote which decided not to accept this amendment. There was no one in favour, there were 7 members of the Commission against, and there were no abstentions either. The Commission then discussed the second amendment, the content of which is that the practice in which the authorities collect the same data again should be abandoned. The current Public Information Act specifically prohibits the use of separate databases for the collection of the same data. However, it is not clearly stated in the law that data already available in national data registers should not be asked repeatedly by people. This principle has also been recognised as important by the European Commission. Members of the Commission asked questions from both the author of the amendment and the guests present, who were representatives of the Data Protection Inspectorate and the Ministry of Justice. It was found that the Ministry of Justice did not support this amendment because it was ambiguous. The proposal requires that all procedures take place electronically in Estonia, but unfortunately this is not the case with very many procedures. A person must also be able to decide for himself what data he or she will share with the public sector in the context of a specific application. In addition, the effects of the change are not assessed and it is not clear how much additional burden this would impose on the country. A representative of the Ministry of Justice stated that when applications are submitted via the X-Road, the application already automatically displays the data that exists in the system. The Director General of the AKI, or Data Protection Inspectorate, said that this principle had been applied in the past. For example, in 2011 the Commercial Code was supplemented in such a way that all the data already available in the Commercial Register could no longer be requested from companies by the authorities. This concerned only the business register. The Director-General of the AKI also pointed out that this provision should be included in the Public Information Act, but the Public Information Act is a general law which applies only in general cases. If any special law provides that a person must submit any information during a particular procedure, the special rule shall apply and the general rule shall not apply. The Commission also expressed the view that this change could be a guideline to which the public sector should strive to collect data. Members of the Commission considered that the amendment could still be considered and could therefore be voted on next time. The Ministry of Justice was also asked whether it would be possible for them to make a proposal, i.e. to propose a proposal with a similar but more correct or more appropriate wording. The next Commission meeting on 23 November reached both this and the various other amendments that the Commission had prepared. First of all, Amendment 1. The Commission's advisor explained that the first amendment contained the same phrase "re-use of information." And this issue was already voted on at the previous Commission meeting. The second amendment, which came to us on the basis of the documents of the Ministry of Justice, was therefore addressed as regards restrictions on re-use. According to the current Public Information Act, restrictions on access to information arise from the law. The proposal deletes from the part of the draft, which amends the Civil Service Act, parts of the sentence which allow for an interpretation that access to information can also be restricted by an act below the law. The Commission decided by consensus to present this amendment. The following amendment was also proposed by Mr Haukanõmme and Mr Adams at the first sitting of the Commission on multiple requests for data. A representative of the Ministry of Justice noted that the Public Information Act governs the constitutional right to receive data from public authorities, but does not regulate what data a person must give to the State himself or what data the State cannot ask for. Therefore, this provision does not relate to the scope of the Public Information Act and would be more suited to the general part of administrative law, i.e. the Administrative Procedure Act. A representative of the Ministry of Justice pointed out that another important issue was how to apply this principle in areas where the state already has data, but a special procedure is foreseen, such as background or security checks, where it is necessary to ask the person about the data and check its reliability. In such cases, this principle could not be applied. The representative of the Ministry of Justice also explained that this principle already applies in areas where it can be implemented. For example, this principle is enshrined in the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act, which states that an undertaking is not required to provide data that the State already has. Similarly, the Law Enforcement Act provides that when a State has to question a person and ask for additional documents in the context of a measure to collect information from him, it cannot double that. Therefore, this principle is partly, but not universally, applied in the current law. The representative of the Ministry of Justice also noted that the universal application of this principle would also unduly undermine the person's right of discretion and informational self-determination, which data should be provided to the State to what extent. A representative of the Ministry of Justice also added that if this amendment were to enter into force as a legislative text, this would mean that the agreements currently concluded between the databases in the exchange of data would be subject to review and the data combinations exchanged would become uncertain. This means that each database should start to provide a service in order to cover all the compositions of its own data, which would entail quite high costs. The Commission found that the citizen did not provide his or her data to a specific institution, but that he or she gave it to the State. The representative of the Ministry of Justice explained that the person gives his or her data to the State for a specific purpose and that the country is represented by a specific institution in the pursuit of this objective. The Commission also expressed the view that the principle of one-off requests for data in the amendment could be defined as political will. Due to the bottlenecks mentioned by the representative of the Ministry of Justice, it is difficult to do so in this draft. It was therefore not considered appropriate to support the wording of the compromise proposed by the Ministry of Justice itself. According to a representative of the Ministry of Justice, this policy guideline could be taken into account in the future whenever a new database is established. If this principle were to be introduced by sector, i.e. through the basic regulations of databases, it would indeed work. However, laying down a general principle in the law does not lead to the desired effect. It was added that it would be appropriate to include this principle in a specific law in each area or, once again, in the basic regulations of databases. The members of the committee expressed the opinion that the Riigikogu is also able to simply declare this principle so that the executive power is guided by it. It doesn't make sense to sign up for everything in the law. It was also found that the draft rapporteur, i.e. I, could also emphasise the principle of one-off questioning of data in front of the Riigikogu plenary. And that's what I'm gonna do. The Commission decided not to present the compromise proposed by the Ministry of Justice in this wording. The following amendment concerns those provisions which, on entry into force, would lose the right of authorities to submit requests for information, as this will be done in a different form between authorities. The following proposal proposes a change in terminology, i.e. proposes that the term 'public tasks' should be replaced by 'public tasks', since 'public tasks' are already used in law. The following amendment ensures that information for general use is in any case disclosed. It excludes the possibility of considering the need for disclosure of such information, which, in the current version of the law, gives the executive authority too much opportunity to interpret, thus creating a risk of exploitation and the citizens and institutions may be deprived of the necessary information. The following amendment complements § 38 (3) of the Public Information Act in such a way that, alongside officials, employees of state and local authorities have the right of access to information intended for internal use. The eighth amendment is of a technical nature and concerns the presentation of subsections 26, 27 and 31 of § 2. The draft amends the same provisions of the Public Information Act on several occasions. Repeated amendment of one provision of the law in the same draft is not technically correct and may cause confusion. Amendment 9 was not tabled. It concerned the addition to paragraph 5 of § 436 by the following wording: "A legal or natural person governed by private law shall not be required to provide information necessary for the performance of their administrative functions to a government institution, a local government entity or any other person governed by public law or to a legal person governed by public law, except for data and contact details enabling the person to be identified, and shall, if there is a technical possibility, be inherited from an appropriate repository by means of the data exchange layer of national information systems, unless otherwise provided by law. " In fact, representatives of our Free Party offered a similar provision. Once again, the Commission decided not to present this proposal. Amendment 10 included the proposal made by the National Information System Agency on the security of national databases, providing for the obligation to use systems to ensure this information system for all databases belonging to the national information system. There was quite a serious and long debate here where it was realised that this proposal would not be tabled. In the Commission, it was widely believed that the National Information System Authority had simply not made full use of the opportunities that already exist in the law. In the case of databases belonging to a national information system which have been issued, for example, from public authorities, their administrators can be required to use the systems to ensure the national information system. And Amendment 11 clarifies the competence of the Data Protection Inspectorate and the National Information System Agency in the exercise of national and administrative supervision. The Commission decided to present this amendment to the large Chamber. At this Commission meeting, procedural decisions were already taken, including a consensual proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 10 December 2015, i.e. today. It was also proposed to close the second reading (this decision was also consensual) and to send the draft to the third reading when the second one is closed, by 15 December 2015 (also by consensus), as well as to carry out the final vote on the draft. However, the Commission came back to the draft law on Monday, 7 December. An amendment on the basis of which the entry into force of the Act was moved by one month was inserted from 1 January to 1 February. And the reasoning here was simple. Indeed, now that we are dealing with this bill here, it is already December, and it may take some time for the President to declare the law. The law also brings about changes in the work of the institutions and it is therefore reasonable to give them time to implement the reorganisations. I'm done with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-10_U7	Good waitress, thank you! You have at least one question. Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-10_U8	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You mentioned that with this draft law amending the Public Information Act, we will partly, but not entirely, solve the problem of multiple requests for personal data. As you also mentioned, this was a topic in the Commission that was the most debated. Indeed, the important question is why local authorities or public or executive authorities are asking for data that they already have. You also spoke of the Commission's desire to formalise this issue either as a political will or as a declaration. I have a question as to whether you have any good suggestions as to how to avoid these double questions. And if it is not today, would you be willing to move this matter forward as a judge in the committee so that at some point it will be?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-10_U9	Thank you. I certainly think that this cannot be the task of just one member of the Riigikogu, because when we talk about legitimizing and organising databases, it goes through several committees. I think that, in fact, all Riigikogu committees, when they examine draft laws and see that one or the other drafts concern the formation of a new database or the regulation of an old, already existing database or the provision of some kind of data to databases, should pay attention to the need for a person to provide data that is in one form or another. At the same time, it has to be taken into account, and it has also emerged from the Commission's debate, that in certain cases the questioning of data is justified. An example is where a person has provided the State, Tax and Customs Board with some data that is relatively sensitive. Or we could take the same e-health. Excessive cross-use of these data, if they are also accessible to other public authorities, may be too high a legal standard. So I think that every Commission, as a legislative body, should show the same political will in data collection procedures that I have said here, and regulate the wording of the law accordingly.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-12-10_U10	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let us now go to the examination of the amendments. Ten amendments to bill 71 have been received. The first amendment is from Monika Haukanõmme and Jüri Adams, the position of the commission: to be disregarded. The amendment is not to be voted in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act. The second amendment is from the lead committee and has been fully taken into account. The third amendment is from Monika Haukanõmme and Jüri Adams, the position of the commission: not to be taken into account. The amendment is not to be voted in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Further amendments have been tabled by the lead committee and all have been fully taken into account. The fourth amendment, the fifth amendment, the sixth amendment, the seventh amendment, the eighth amendment, the ninth amendment and the tenth amendment. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. Second reading is complete. The second item is therefore also closed. Good fellows, our hearing today is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 10:24 a.m.
