ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Let's start the briefing. Incoming check, please! 51 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. The following members of the government will participate in the Question Hour: Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski Prime Minister, Minister of State Administration Arto Aas and Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir. Ten members of the Riigikogu have expressed their wish to ask questions, so I will give you one additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U2	The first questioner is Uno Kaskpeit and the question is to the Minister of Health and Labour in the duties of Prime Minister Jevgeni Ossinovski. Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U3	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! Mr. Rõivas promised the Swedish Prime Minister that Estonia would help Sweden in receiving refugees some time ago when he was visiting Sweden. How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U4	Thank you for the short and specific question. This is even unexpected for a member of the Riigikogu if the question is not preceded by a minute's introduction. It is true that it has begun to be discussed at European Union level whether those countries that have requested assistance in relation to refugees should be reviewed. In particular, Sweden has requested assistance to be able to participate in the intra-EU refugee distribution mechanism if Hungary is excluded from the current mechanism. So far, nothing more detailed has been agreed. Sweden itself has not proposed any order of magnitude and has left this issue to the Commission to assess. The members of the Estonian Government, including the Prime Minister, have discussed this issue briefly and indeed found that if such a proposal comes from European Union level and it is agreed that the threshold number for the reception of refugees will not change for Estonia, it would probably be easier to deal with Sweden than with the countries with which we have agreed on this matter, including Greece and Italy. Sweden is closer to us. We have a good relationship, so we're probably going to have a pretty smooth process. Our government has not taken a decision on this because it has not been taken at European level either. If such a proposal is made, it is decided by the Government of the Republic at the beginning, and according to the law, the Riigikogu will also give its opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U5	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U6	I understand that if you have to accept refugees from Sweden, you will remain within the limit of the number that has now been stated at 570 or exactly what this figure was. If it happens that we are fulfilling our commitment to aid for Sweden, and the European Union is still sending us 570 refugees in addition to those who come from Sweden, what then? I don't understand that kind of promise of assistance.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U7	The Prime Minister has expressed to his colleagues in Sweden as well as to other European colleagues Estonia's willingness to seriously consider that Sweden could be among the countries from which refugees are relocated. I think that this position is reasonable for the reasons I mentioned to you in my previous reply. As I said, these decisions have not been taken at European Union level at the moment. Our opinion so far has been that the inclusion of a new country, or Sweden, in the relocation scheme will not change the limit bill and the number of refugees to be relocated agreed with Estonia will not change.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U8	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U9	Mr. Minister! Surely we have all heard that the Swedes are lobbying actively in Brussels to be included in the redistribution programme. When the delegation from the Committee on European Union Affairs met with the Speaker of the Swedish Parliament, Mr Ahlin, I stressed that this move is one step forward towards further breaking up the unity of the current European Union or its non-existent unity. We all know that Sweden has so far been critical of its neighbouring countries, Finland, Denmark and Norway, which have long been actively restricting the admission of immigrants and strengthening border controls. Sweden has gone on with the same song until the last few days. In your opinion, would it not be too high a risk if we approved the inclusion of Sweden with Greece and Italy in the same programme? This will further accelerate the break-up of the unity of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U10	I think it is important from the point of view of European unity that the countries have solidarity with each other. So far, Hungary, Italy and Greece have been asking for assistance from the European Union and the Member States of the European Union. Of course, the migration crisis is a very dynamic phenomenon; it is changing rapidly. Indeed, we are talking about a very large flow of refugees, and in this context it is understandable that a few months later, the situation in some countries may ease and in some other countries may be getting worse again. If this other country then sees that they need the support and assistance of their partners, then I think it is very reasonable for European unity to be analysed by the European Commission and to propose how the problem should be addressed and resolved in a comprehensive manner. As regards the inclusion of Sweden in this system, as I said, this would be welcome from Estonia's point of view, as it will certainly be much easier for Estonia to cooperate with the Swedish state on this matter than with Italy and Greece, which are considerably further away from us.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U12	The next question is for the Minister of State Administration, Arto Asa. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U13	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Last week, two important decisions were reportedly taken at the meeting of the Cabinet in preparation for the administrative reform. They haven't been very communicative, I read about them in yesterday's newspaper, West Life. In short, it stated that at least 11000 people could preferably live in local governments, not 5,000, as has been said before, and that forced mergers would take place before the next municipal elections, not afterwards, as has been the case before. Please state, within the time allowed, whether it is true what is behind these decisions and whether you intend to communicate them more widely in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U14	Thank you, good questioner! I'd love to explain. Indeed, last Thursday, the Cabinet discussed the proposals that we have prepared at the Ministry of Finance together with experts for six months. To sum up, the government supported our proposals. It was agreed that the main criterion for the administrative reform would be the number of inhabitants, which would be a minimum of 5000. Where's the 11,000 coming from? This is the political desire of the government to ensure that, in the course of the accession process, municipalities focus not only on meeting the minimum criterion, but, in fact, a more ambitious step should be taken in many places. The government is ready to further support those municipalities with a population of 11000, likely to receive a financial bonus in the course of the merger. Such proposals I will develop in the coming days. Indeed, with regard to the timetable, it was agreed that the most sensible and rational way to complete the reform for the regular local elections in 2017. This means that until January 2017, municipalities will have time to conclude own-initiative accession treaties, to decide for themselves who and how. After that, the government has the right to organise further mergers for a period of six months. So both stages of both voluntary and mandatory mergers will get their correct end in October 2017.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U15	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U16	Thank you. I will ask you more about how the deadlines for the agreed actions are being met in the first place. I remember one of your earlier appearances here in the Riigikogu that by November the criteria that a successful municipality would meet had to be clarified. Are they known now?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U17	Thank you. We agreed that this criterion would be the number of inhabitants and the minimum number would be 5000. This is the basic criterion through which the reform, this phase, will be carried out. The government's action programme provided for this criterion to be agreed by the government in November. That's what we did. On the basis of the agreement, we will write a specific section of the framework law on administrative reform, explanatory notes and legal provisions. It will go to the formal round of coordination in the coming weeks with such a timetable that, no later than February next year, the anniversary of the Republic, it will be possible for the Government to approve the draft framework law on reform and to send it to Parliament. Then there is also a perfectly reasonable time for Parliament to discuss it. We ourselves hope that Parliament will adopt the framework law by June. In this sense, we are still on the agreed schedule that was written into the coalition agreement in the spring, and we hope that we will remain on this schedule. The circle of engagement has been very wide. We have had regional seminars and meetings with representatives of local governments. There have been many debates. Now we can really put all this wisdom in the black white bill to have a more concrete document to improve and to make further decisions. So this is all on schedule, and I am very grateful to my colleagues in the government that these decisions were supported last Thursday.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U18	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U19	Thank you. Good minister! A few mornings ago Marko Pomerants commented on the discussion between the municipalities of Lääne-Virumaa in Vikerraadio. It had been said that 5 000 inhabitants were too few that it did not provide the sufficient effect that we should achieve in the administration of the entire country. This 11000 inhabitants, which Marko Pomerants also spoke of, were very much wanted there. Can you be more specific about how you see this local government of 11,000 people? I think 11,000 is better than 5,000. Do you mean that there is a large government or that it is multilevel? Are there any municipalities or what do you think a large municipality with at least 11000 inhabitants should look like more precisely?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U20	Indeed, municipalities of this size could be created if it is rational and geographically, culturally justified. There's a lot of places where this makes sense. At the same time, there are regions where this may not be achieved because of scattered settlements, and that is why we have left the minimum at 5000. As far as the internal governance model of the future municipality is concerned, our approach is to have a high degree of flexibility and a municipality with 5,000, 11000 and 50,000 inhabitants has the right to decide for themselves whether to create a municipality. We are giving the opportunity to set up a local administrative body for the municipality. It is possible to keep service points etc. Such rights arise and the best thing is for municipalities themselves to agree on an own-initiative round about the future governance model. So here we do not draw any line or draw models according to the size of the municipalities, but it remains up to the local governments. The approach is that we give the law every opportunity to conclude these agreements ourselves, given local circumstances and wishes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U22	The next question is put by Mailis Reps to the Minister for Health and Labour in the role of Prime Minister Jevgeni Ossinovski. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Health and Labour in charge of Prime Ministership! This time I will ask you a question in your field, but it also concerns the Government of the Republic in general. The Government of the Republic has sent a draft law amending the Alcohol Act and the Advertising Act to the coordination circle, a part of which, perhaps the most debated part, is the ban on the sale of alcohol at filling stations and gas stations, justifying this with a desire to reduce alcohol consumption. In the light of sending this draft to coordination, has the Government of the Republic decided to support the same initiative of the Estonian Central Party? What is your view on alcohol policy in general?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U24	Thank you. The broader view is that too much alcohol is consumed in Estonia. Damages are huge: more than 1000 deaths directly related to alcohol, direct health sector costs of over 40 million euros per year, wider economic costs of up to 2% of GDP per year. In total, this is certainly more than all the revenues related to alcohol production, sales and marketing, both in the wider economy and in the state budget. Consequently, the steps taken to tighten up alcohol policy are in principle justified. There has been a long discussion on this subject. The Green Paper on alcohol policy endorsed by the government at the beginning of 2014 has analysed a range of possible restrictions. On this basis, the Ministry of Social Affairs has also written a draft and sent it to coordination. The main objective of national alcohol policy measures is to change the current social standard. Perhaps now, if alcohol consumption is clearly a social norm, we would like to come to a situation where it is not so. To achieve this, a number of measures must be taken at the same time: information and prevention, alcohol treatment and then three other important components: increasing the price of alcohol, restricting promotional advertising and also limiting sales conditions. The last two restrictions on advertising and sales conditions are the focus of this particular draft. We will move forward with this draft and hope to give it to the Government of the Republic in early January for a decision. As far as the Centre Party is concerned, it is precisely because there is a need to approach alcohol policy in a complex way, in conjunction with different measures, that the Government of the Republic did not support this draft, also indicating that this complex solution is already in the final stages of government proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U25	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U26	Thank you, Mr President. As the drafts are basically identical and prepared for almost entirely the same purpose, it is clear that, in fact, we see the Government of the Republic's support for its draft, although perhaps not in the coordination table. The deadline for the draft initiated by us, the Central Party Group, is 1 July 2016. The draft law of the Government of the Republic, which is currently in the coordination circle, contains a point concerning the prohibition of sales at filling stations, and will only apply from 1 January 2018. However, when we look at statistics, in 2014, for example, the police hit 7894 drivers, 148 of whom caused an accident because of their drinking condition. Do you not think that this postponement is a very sensitive issue for drunk drivers?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U27	Please, I have an urgent proposal to respond in two minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U28	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! I'll try to answer faster. When drawing up the draft, especially with regard to the deadlines for entry into force, we have naturally taken into account the impact of the restrictions on the business sector, which these restrictions directly cover. The draft amendment to the Alcohol Act and the Advertising Act clearly limits the freedom to conduct a business. The freedom to conduct a business is one of the constitutionally protected rights, which means that any changes restricting the freedom to conduct a business must be justified, justified and made within such a time limit as to enable undertakings to regulate and restructure their activities in accordance with the new legal order within a reasonable time. As a result, there are indeed some restrictions in this draft with a longer period of entry into force. One concerns the construction of partitions in larger shops, as this clearly requires restructuring. I think it makes sense for decisions with greater impact to have a longer transition period. True, from a public health point of view, these decisions should, of course, be implemented more quickly, but we are living in a society where a certain balance needs to be struck between the various interests. This also means that sufficient time will be given to implement the changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U29	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U30	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Given the particular experience of alcohol and the fact that you have a philosophy diploma, you should know very well that the alcohol problem as such is stuck in your head. I mean, there's nothing to be achieved here with punishment and prohibition methods. This is world practice, and as a philosopher, you should be very good at explaining and explaining what it is. But didn't you think about rewarding and praising those people who can prove, according to your Hollow Bill, that they're alcoholics, so they can get some kind of bonus for it, like dental care or other things? That if a person is alcohol-free, he's different, then his quality of life is different?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U31	Thank you. People who do not drink alcohol have a different quality of life. They live a healthier, longer life, have happier family relationships, are more successful at their jobs, are more productive. Consequently, the personal benefits of giving up alcohol are quite obvious, and I think that is why in recent years, although it has grown at a very slow pace and at a low base, the number of people who do not drink at all has increased. As far as the philosophical question is concerned, it is not, in fact, a philosophical question. Hundreds of studies have shown that alcohol consumption is clearly influenced by the availability, advertising, and price of alcohol. That is why it is precisely in these three areas that restrictions are proposed. The decision to increase excise duties on alcohol has already been taken by the Riigikogu and now the next step is to limit advertising and sales points. Very firm, clear scientific arguments speak in favour of this having an impact. Although, in the end, it is as if every person decides whether he buys beer, wine or vodka from a shop, it is clear that state measures and state policies in general affect how many consume alcohol.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U32	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U33	The next question is for the Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U34	Thank you for the opportunity to ask a question to the minister who first comes before the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. Statistics show that the Estonian economy has still not been very successful. Economic analyst Heido Vitsur notes that our country has not been very involved in the changing era of changing fundamentals. My question: what do you think it is necessary to change in the business environment so that our own people become more entrepreneurs and that foreign investments also come here? According to statistics, we have not been very successful here compared to the other Baltic countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U35	Thank you, Mr. Põldaru. I would like to start by arguing a little against the view that Estonian entrepreneurship has not worked very well so far. The Estonian business environment is probably very well characterised by the World Bank's overview of Ease of Doing Business, which deals with the business-friendliness of 189 countries. Estonia is in 16th place according to this study. The World Economic Forum has produced a report on competitiveness, where Estonia is 29th in the 144 evaluated countries. The reason we are 29th is also due to certain objective reasons, such as the size of Estonia. If you take international ratings to an Estonian state, Fitch's rating says we're A+, Standard & Poor's rating says AA., and Moody's says A1. So, according to objective circumstances, the Estonian economy is doing quite well. Of course, I'm not saying I can't do any better. We are currently developing measures precisely to make it from what has worked so far, which has brought us here where we are, the next leap of development, because the speed of development really shows that we are in a bit of stagnation. One of the important things that I am currently reviewing is the support structures for entrepreneurship, how they support entrepreneurship. We are moving from one era to another, where support from the Structural Funds is clearly in decline and our companies have to cope on their own. That is why we are changing the specific measures and structures in general, in order to provide businesses with precisely the services they need.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U36	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U37	Thank you! Minister, thank you very much. Yeah, we're friendly, but we haven't been too fast compared to the neighborhoods. My next question is a little bit from the other line, because the answer to this question made it clear that there are plans to change things. Perhaps you can say a few words about how things are progressing outside the European Union market. Can we find new markets somewhere? After all, especially in agriculture, it is clear that the lack of Russian markets is in great distress. How are we doing? Can we get a foot in the door somewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U38	Thank you. Our exports are mainly targeted at neighbouring countries: Latvia, Lithuania, Finland, Russia. Russia is currently largely off the list in relation to economic sanctions. Finland also faces difficult times. That is why we have started looking very clearly and quickly for new markets. As these new markets, we still see to a large extent the so-called Hanseatics: Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Germany, Great Britain, France, the Netherlands and Belgium. These are the countries where 80% of our work is now going to be carried out in the markets there to be properly confirmed. At the same time, we have expanded the markets and new target markets, or even rediscovered old ones, are the US, Japan and China. The work is very intensive in all three directions. This work includes both business diplomacy in order to get contracts in order to allow these markets to actually enter into the market, and this line so that we can find real partners. Here is the good news that e-milk, for example, has obtained a proper framework agreement with a large Japanese group and will start to move its dairy products to Japan from 1 January.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U39	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U40	Thank you, manager. Madam Minister! I'm surprised your satisfaction with the economy. The third quarter's economic growth in Estonia was only 0.5%. Estonia has become the red lantern of the Baltic States. In five years, gross domestic product has increased by 16% in Latvia, and only 8% in Estonia. In five years GDP per capita has increased by 20% in Estonia and 21% in Latvia, foreign investment in Estonia by 39% and Latvia by 48%. The government that shapes economic policy and business policy also plays a major role here. Next year, for example, you will burden our business with a 14% increase in excise duty on diesel, while it will be only 2% for Latvians. Let me give you a specific example. If the company turns to the State-owned company Elektrilevi, makes the first contribution, it will take 330 days to get the substation from them and expand its production. Do you think that's normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U41	Thank you for your question. I feel that it is difficult for me to comment on the issue of electricity distribution because it is not in my administration. It would probably be advisable to address Mr Michal in this regard. Of course, all companies in the country must act in such a way that the life of our businesses is as simple as possible, not the other way around, to hinder their work. This is definitely one of my priorities. We have had worse and better periods, but I say that in the long run we have actually been quite successful. This success is more visible from the outside, because from the inside you always see other things, you see that this third quarter is more important than what has happened in ten years. We have been ahead of Latvia and Lithuania for a very long time. The fact that they are now picking us up is very good for the development of the whole region, and if the region is doing well, we will do well too. As a typical Estonian, I cannot say that I am absolutely satisfied. I see that there are a number of areas that still need to be promoted so that our development can continue and maybe continue at a slightly faster pace. It is certainly not the kind of stalling that can be satisfied. Here are very clear measures that we intend to take over the next year. For me, the focus next year will be twofold: one is modernising business support structures and bringing them into line with the needs of the company, and the other is paying attention to foreign trade.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U42	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U43	Next, the Minister of Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski Monika Haukanõmme, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. There are about 114000 businesses in Estonia, 94% of them being so-called micro-enterprises. In May 2014, a law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act was adopted which took the hope of state aid from those board members, who we have at least a few hundred thousand in Estonia, should entrepreneurship fail. They can't register at the unemployment fund if they're unemployed. On Saturday, a long interview was published in Päevaleht LP with Toomas Luman, the head of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Commenting on this issue, he said that it has not now been understood at the level of the government. My question is, when and how does the government intend to change this unfair provision restricting entrepreneurship?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U45	Thank you. I have examined this issue and have come to the knowledge that the change that was made in the past was a proposal from the unemployment fund. And this was not primarily linked to the issue of lack of financial resources or savings, but rather to cases of abuse arising from the type of compensation or specific target group. The management of the Unemployment Insurance Fund may tell you more about this, but rarely were those cases where some company went from one company and artificially created another company in order to receive redundancy compensation. Clearly, therefore, some kind of scheme was sought to obtain funds that were not really needed and which were not at all related to the purpose of the compensation. I admit that there really are companies in Estonia where, for example, there is only one person in the start-up phase, who is a member of the management board, who does not pay a salary to make sure that the company is doing well. And in the event that this undertaking fails on long-term work, it may also be deprived of any social protection that, in some cases, really seems socially unfair. As a result, there is a point in the government programme of action to consider whether a system could be created to prevent these abuses and, on the other hand, to give people the opportunity to receive compensation in reasonable cases. The analysis is carried out by the Ministry of Justice, due December 2015.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U46	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U47	Thank you, Minister, for that explanation. Indeed, when this bill was processed, it was said that there had been about a thousand cases of abuse. At the same time, we have a lot more of these companies. A year ago, in the press, this bill was even called a grenade to kill a mosquito, which it really is. I believe that there would certainly be much less measures to reduce abuse that violate the rights of businesses. My previous question related to business companies, but the same problem is for foundations, the board of directors of the foundation established by the state and the board of directors. You can't think that's right either. What are the plans to do with these public foundations' councils and boards?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U48	I don't know what else to say right now. I've received a written explanation from the Justice Department about how far that analysis is. To be honest, I cannot say much more here than that there is currently a mapping and analysis of opportunities and precise results can be discussed after the analysis has been completed. Fortunately, the deadline for the completion of the analysis is not too far, so I believe that we can come back to this matter soon. In essence, in the area of work, in the Ministry of Social Affairs, we have discussed this issue and the question of the Ministry of Justice as to whether it is possible to distinguish between the target groups among the board and the board members in such a way that those who do not need compensation would be excluded and those for whom it would really be justified would be able to do so. It is not easy, of course, to define it by the economic performance of companies, by receiving or not getting paid and by other conditions. It's pretty complicated. As far as I know, the Ministry of Justice is making an effort to do this, we'll wait for the analysis, and then we can discuss it further.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U49	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, My question tends to be philosophical in this sense, whether abuses can justify such grenade killing a mosquito. I very much agree that things and situations need to be analysed. However, in the case of analysis, this raises the question of whether it should be analysed before steps are taken that put a very large number of operators in a difficult situation. In this case, it has been done that they are placed in this situation and then they will be analysed. Which way is the process going?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U51	With regard to previous decisions, I do not have the authority to respond to exactly what process was going on, what analyses were carried out when this procedure was changed. Indeed, as I have already said, there have been abuses, including some quite grotesques, which I cannot talk about from this remote control. But if you communicate with the management of the unemployment fund, you can get an idea of how this system has been abused. We have now come to a situation where a discussion has arisen as to whether this procedure should be reversed to some extent, not entirely, but for certain target groups. This is set as an objective in the government's action programme, so let us wait for analysis and then try to make the system more rational, if any rationally possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U52	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U53	The next questioner is Dmitri Dmitriev and the respondent is Minister of State Administration Arto Aas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U54	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister of State Administration! According to the latest review by the National Audit Office, the government should, among other things, create prerequisites for the development of regional entrepreneurship through state reform. Do local governments expect changes in this area as part of the planned state reform, or are we talking more about the number, size, possible mergers of local governments, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U55	Thank you. The ability of local authorities to engage in entrepreneurship and the creation of a favourable infrastructure for this has certainly been a priority area once we have prepared for administrative reform and also for the reform of state governance. There is enough experience to say that there are problems with very small skills. Firstly, there is no financial resources to deal with infrastructure and the creation of a physical environment for business. The same big problem is that it is not possible to recruit qualified people with competitive pay in very small municipalities to deal with the wishes of entrepreneurs, to attract entrepreneurs and to create the necessary conditions for them. If municipalities are larger, stronger and more capable than administrative reform, they will have a real capacity to develop the business environment. I'm sure that's one big advantage. The other side is how to shape the financing of local governments in such a way that there is also real motivation for developing the business environment. Here, too, there is one proposal: linking municipal funding to the jobs created there. This is a very controversial point. At one point, we must certainly discuss in Parliament whether we are going this way or not. However, it is possible to change the financing model so that local governments can have real incentives to engage in entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U56	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U57	Thank you, Minister. I will ask you about the same financing model. Do we expect a fundamental change in the tax system with regard to the abolition of this function at the local government level, or is it just another state support that will be targeted from the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U58	Municipalities have the right to engage in the development of the business environment. And let's face it, every smart self-government does it very actively. I have not had any meetings with the local government leaders, where they would have said that they were not interested in jobs or entrepreneurs within their municipality. Unfortunately, a bit of a different story is heard from business organisations who say that there are many municipalities, especially among the smaller ones, where there is no capacity and sometimes no desire to deal with the business environment. We can change the financing model in a number of ways. If we commit the municipality to developing an entrepreneurial environment, then of course money must also be foreseen for this, and without it no new obligations can be imposed. This would require a change in the current funding scheme. At present, most of the municipal income is linked to the income from personal income tax, which implies that the person is registered in the municipality. Whether he actually lives or works there, it doesn't matter much for the system in force. However, if we were to link the financing model to jobs in a real municipality or city, for example, it would be possible to link these things to one another. Of course, the state does not have precise statistics and reports on which local government jobs are located. Therefore, certain technological and legal changes are also needed, but in theory this is feasible. Another solution for municipalities to receive money is the Equalisation Fund. This model, too, is quite complex. The future of the Equalisation Fund is open and changes are possible after the administrative reform has entered into force.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U59	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U60	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Environmental business and business are different things. Maybe we could give local authorities permission to do business, then maybe these things would go a little bit further.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U61	I heard the question a little bad. Can municipalities do business? Yeah, who forbids them. Some municipalities are still doing so-called business, which I do not approve of, for example, here in the city of Tallinn. I think that banking and shopping can be done perfectly by the private sector; there is no need to drown taxpayers' money there. But in terms of infrastructure offers, municipalities are active in very many places, especially when it comes to a natural monopoly, which is a special form of business. The municipalities are still active there, and I see no problem or need for restraint in this. In general, I do not consider it a good practice for municipalities to compete with the private sector or to use the competitive advantage of spending taxpayers' money. I think that municipalities should do more to create an environment, create a level playing field. Keeping the bank, TV and store should still be the responsibility of the private sector. That is my position, and I hope that the rest of Estonia's municipalities will not implement the path chosen for the capital.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U62	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U63	The next question to the Minister for Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski, in charge of the Prime Minister's duties, will be asked by Arno Sild. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U64	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We know that it is planned to set up family medicine centres in larger cities and county centres. Apparently, this plan has a complete complexion. But I'd like to ask how people in areas far away from county centres can get to a family doctor if this plan is implemented. If a person lives 30 to 50 kilometres away from the county centre, how can he be provided with family doctor services at the current level or even better?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U65	Thank you very much for your question. Indeed, in the coming years, the country will be investing heavily with the support of European Union funds, with a total of EUR 115 million to improve primary health infrastructure. We call it a health centre project; the population has also called it a family doctor center project. Health centres are more accurate, as in addition to family doctors, we also want to bring together midwives, physiotherapists and other specialists who could provide a more complex first-level service in these centres. The aim is that fewer people should go to a specialist in the hospital so that people can resolve their concerns at a family doctor's or health centre. The truth is, the information isn't that we're only making such centers at county centers. We will certainly do them in the county centres, but if you look at the approved regulation on European Union funds, there is an annex 1 where, based on research and information from the Health Board, it is precisely the centres of first-level health care that are a much broader concept than county centres. In addition, we have placed local attraction centers there. In total, there are projects that we are basically ready to finance, almost 100, I say now, by heart. And if we take one county, such as Valgamaa, there are three regional centres where a health centre can be established for euro money: Tõrva, Otepää and Valga. In addition, there is a local attraction centre, Puka, where a branch can be made. So we've expanded this possibility quite a bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U66	Thank you. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U67	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I have recently spoken to a family doctor from a number of centres, working in rural areas, and one of the main problems seems to be the repair of premises and the availability of premises. They say they don't have any substantive problems, they're able to serve people. Is it possible to support these smaller family doctor centres or family doctors with EU money?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U68	Thank you. Some of the smaller family doctors, as you call them, are also included in this annex to the regulation. These are local branches, which we will allow if they cooperate with a larger centre. There are several reasons for this. Firstly, one of the priorities for the allocation of European Union funds is to improve the quality of service. We want more family doctors to come to one centre, because where there is only one family doctor, this new quality does not arise. We really want to see this concentration. Secondly, in the case of investment in the European Union, we want these family medicine centres, the health centres that we finance, to be sustainable in 20 years' time. This means that we look at the broader population projections, see how people move. We certainly do not want to invest a lot of money in some health centres, but in ten years' time, it will be clear that there will be not enough people in this area, and this centre will be shut down. That doesn't make any sense. There is no limit to the health centre's projects to those family doctors who currently carry out their services in smaller municipalities. They can continue to do so, there is no question of that. The concern is that, especially outside county centres, the average age of family doctors is approaching retirement age quite quickly. This means that, in the perspective of the next ten years, we have a serious concern about how to provide independent family medical services there, and that is why we want there to be concentration in larger centres. It would be possible to find substitutes and to share patients in the list in such a way that all in Estonia are actually provided with high-quality family doctor services.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U69	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U70	And now Artur Talvik asks and answers the Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U71	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You are few to see, and you are little to hear. This is not a call for you to make your PR team work, but to know specifically what your progress has been in these few months. In order to get a little more precise, I ask how Estonia has been working towards Japan, for example, the sale of milk powder, and the expansion of the promised markets towards China.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U72	Thank you. As you pointed out, I have had this working time for a little over two months. Evidently, it is quite common that starting a job involves getting to know the situation. It's not possible to do this outside, that's what you have to do inside the field if you have powers and competences. Well, that time has gone largely under the letter of the briefing, and there are also everyday things that need to be done in one way or another. Since now is exactly the time when new measures will be opened for the next period, a great deal of work has gone there to shape the conditions for measures that I and other designers believe would be most favourable to Estonian business. As regards the more precise question of foreign trade, I believe that foreign trade has so far been one of the areas divided between the two ministries, between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has focused more on business diplomacy, which in turn means that the focus of their activities has been transnational agreements, which are extremely necessary to open up markets. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has more of such an entrepreneur's eye. One of my objectives, as I have already said in answering the previous question, is to bring these two things together so that they will then be working according to the needs of businesses, i.e. we are starting to pay particular attention to these markets. I was talking about Japan. You must have been away for a while. E-milk has achieved that they have signed the first agreement and will enter the Japanese market since January.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U73	Thank you. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U74	Thank you for your answer. The Prime Minister is, of course, in China these days. You mentioned agreements to go to new markets. What are the terms of these contracts? Is there also a requirement for territorial integrity to be recognised, for example, in China?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U75	Contract terms are very much dependent on the partner with whom the contract is concluded. The process is significantly wider than the signing of a specific contract. It starts with certain visits. After all, the Chinese Health Protection Agency was in Estonia and they gave their coordination. This will be followed by a number of things before this market actually opens up. This is also a problem. Those who take milk powder to Japan could sell some of the by-products to China, but the Chinese market has not yet opened. At the same time, we are looking forward to opening up the Chinese market in 2016, which would be a great opportunity for businesses, but also a great challenge, given the volumes that are on a different scale. Based on my knowledge, I can say that there is no recognition of territorial integrity in these agreements. They're still trade agreements.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U76	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U77	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! During your few months of activity, you have highlighted two major issues that are priorities. One is the introduction of gender quotas in company councils, to which we will come later. The second, which is much more decisive for me and a key issue for Estonian society, is the reduction of bureaucracy in favour of entrepreneurship. In reply to Arthur Talvik, you also mentioned that you are dealing with regulations. I assume that these regulations also reflect measures to encourage market entry. I would like to know specifically what are the real actions that you have already been able to do under the auspices of a reduction in bureaucracy. The second question is what are your plans to encourage joint action. We are such a small country that we need more cooperation in order to better conquer markets.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U78	Thank you. As regards the reference to gender quotas, this was mentioned at the beginning of becoming a minister, not that I have now declared it a major challenge. Although I think it's an extremely important thing in my work. However, by referring to the regulations, I said that there must be a regulation for each measure, which lays down precisely the conditions under which certain subsidies can be obtained. Sometimes the two things that matter are the most. We have clearly come to the point that any request for support must become much easier. Many entrepreneurs have said that, when they see how many documents they have to submit, they have two options: to hire someone who does it for them, or to give it up. This is not a normal situation, and that is what I referred to when I said that it is necessary to review that the support structures for entrepreneurship are really supportive of entrepreneurship. These are the measures and the regulations that we are dealing with. As far as cutting red tape is concerned, zero bureaucracy has been launched by the four ministers. At the moment, we are mapping, in cooperation with the professional associations, those places where we can see that there is really too much bureaucracy. A wide range of data is requested. One of the goals is that if the state asks for any information, it could ideally ask once, no more. And the information he asks for must be clearly necessary, it must be justified to ask for it. Perhaps then we should ask as little as possible not to impose burdens on entrepreneurs, especially given the fact that 95% of Estonian entrepreneurs are companies with 1 to 9 employees. So the issue of zero bureaucracy is extremely important, we are going ahead with it, and we should reach a real result in 2016.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U79	I will conclude on this issue. It's going to be a very quick briefing, and it's going to run out fast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U80	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U81	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry I'd like to make. It has to do with Ida-Viru County. Ida-Virumaa is a very important industrial area in Estonia, but there are several problems, including in the medical field. One of the problems is that doctors often leave our area, they go to work abroad or elsewhere in Estonia, such as Tallinn or Tartu. There are many reasons for this, of course, but if we look at the number of healthy people living in Ida-Viru County, we see that we have 48.4 years, while the Estonian average is 54.1 years. It has been proposed from our group that doctors in Ida-Virumaa should be paid regional fees in the same way as police workers. I therefore have a question to ask the Minister for Health and Labour about a number of issues. Fourteen members of our group have signed up here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U82	Thank you. Honourable Riigikogu! That question also arose today in the body of elders. The Governing Board shall definitely examine this request. But to explain it to you, it is probably necessary to explain it to you that the questioning is a form of parliamentary scrutiny in which a member of the Riigikogu asks an official, for example, the minister how it performs the duties assigned to him by law. You can ask for an opinion in Question Time, for example. But we're going to go through this question and act in accordance with the law. There's no more calls. I have accepted an inquiry. We will proceed with this on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 85 members of the Riigikogu are present, 16 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U83	Yesterday's session ended at the moment when the 122 procedures for the draft decision of the Riigikogu initiated by 57 members of the Riigikogu had reached the point that the representative of the Constitutional Committee, Andre Sepa, had been registered with questions. I would ask Andre Sepa to answer questions from members of the Riigikogu! March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U84	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! There is a AIDS prevention centre and all the other things that have been working for 15 to 16 years, and now we are doing this problem committee. Have you analyzed any statistical data and processes, which is why our AIDS prevention has not borne fruit, and we are one of the most dangerous AIDS distributors, on the same level as Africa? Why do we have no result? And what makes you think that the work of this committee will produce a result?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U85	Thank you, good questioner! We did not have this data in the Commission; we did not deal with it in essence. However, we did recognise the need for this problem committee in the committee, as 57 members of the Riigikogu have also found that this matter needs to be dealt with, and precisely in the form of a problem committee. The explanatory memorandum to the draft outlines the tasks that the committee will undertake. Indeed, as has been said before, such a committee of problems has been in Parliament before. The initiator's representative also mentioned the effectiveness of this work. I hope that the 57 initiators who have requested this committee of concern will be able to participate in this work whenever possible. I'm sure you can see the results in the report. It is a great hope that we really are dealing with this problem in essence.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U86	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please! Sorry, my mistake! Thank you, Andre Sepp! I'm opening negotiations. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Central Party of Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U87	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank my group, who has given me permission to appear here on behalf of the group in order to inform you of some facts. Yesterday, it sounded like one in ten inhabitants of Narva had HIV. I don't know why a waitress had to say such things. I got slides on it from the city doctor in Narva. They tell us how many people have been exposed to HIV over the years. Yes, at the beginning of the century there were hundreds, three hundred, or four hundred. But in the last six years, this figure has fallen sharply, now it's down to 100, in the last four years it's been around 50. The graph of how this indicator has fallen looks like this. So the number that was called here yesterday was almost three times the actual number. As a person from Narva, it is always unpleasant for me to hear such facts being distorted. We hope that the Commission will no longer behave like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U88	On behalf of the Group of the Vilja Savisaar-Toomas Reform Party. Speak up, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U89	Thank you. The waitress was me, although the names were not mentioned at the moment. I promised yesterday, and I will also inform Mr. Stalnukhin that I will provide him with my information. Last night, when I was testing for HIV, I spoke to other experts. This number is higher. The 200 people you're talking about don't even include people in Narva hospitals who are being treated for HIV. We will sort this out between ourselves, we will certainly deal with it in the Commission and we will find out the truth.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U90	Now the negotiations are over. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft decision 122. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 December at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U91	The first reading of the Bill 92 of Amendment to the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act initiated by the Estonian Free Party Group begins. Member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U92	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! On 21 September, including the amendment to the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, the Estonian Free Party Group initiated the draft Act with the intention of amending subsections 6 (5) (4) and 41 of the Act. Under the current regulation, a person is not registered as unemployed if he is a member of the management board of a company or a member of the management or control body of a legal person. The problem is that a member of the company's management board cannot register as unemployed, whether or not he or she receives remuneration in his or her occupation and whether or not he or she has paid unemployment insurance contributions. Our proposal is to remove the unfair restriction that came into force on 1 May 2014, which excluded the possibility of granting unemployment status to board members, which in turn has created a situation where they do not really have the right to state aid, including unemployment benefit, if they are objectively needed. Be reminded here that the conditions for receiving unemployment benefit are laid down in § 6 of the Unemployment Insurance Act, according to which these persons are entitled to benefits here are three conditions, who, firstly, are registered as unemployed, secondly, for whom unemployment benefits have been paid and who have been in insurance for at least 12 months in the last 36 months and, thirdly, is a very important condition that has not been voluntarily unemployed. All three conditions must be met at the same time in order to qualify for unemployment benefit. If the person is not registered as unemployed, one of the necessary preconditions for receiving unemployment benefit is automatically not met. However, the assumption of unemployment is that a person is completely unemployed, i.e. he or she does not have any work. This is where this unfair automatic assumption comes in. Indeed, a member of the company's management board is never unemployed, so he is not registered as unemployed and is not entitled to unemployment benefit. However, the following situations remain unnoticed. First, if, for example, the company has ceased its activities and does not have any economic or other activities, which does not result in the company having a turnover and the manager does not have the opportunity to obtain income, remuneration, dividend or similar from the company. The only way for this person to get help from the state is to liquidate the company, even though it could still be breathed into life, and a member of the board of directors might only need the help of the state on a temporary basis. Secondly, there are situations in which the manager cannot give up the management of the company, because the company does not have the necessary funds to liquidate it or because, for example, a liquidation process is under way, which may last for years. Third, there may be situations where board members are simultaneously in a letter from another company and are working on a salary. They are also faced with a broken trough, because even if their remuneration pays unemployment insurance premiums and they work in the main job, they will not receive unemployment insurance benefits in the future. The reason in the eyes of the country is that these people are not simply unemployed, even if their employment relationship has ended. The Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund relies solely and exclusively on the data of the business register when registered as unemployed and when making their decisions, and does not absolutely assess the reality of the situation. I will give you an example of how one citizen has described this situation: 'I work as an IT manager in a medium-sized enterprise. My friend and I made an IT company four months ago, which we do in our spare time. There are many reasons. First of all, the desire to make extra money. Secondly, we can do projects there that the main job does not allow. In the future, I'd like to be an employer to myself. " The situation is explained by a citizen who is also a member of the board of directors in his company. However, he admits that if for any reason he should be deprived of his salary, he will not be registered as unemployed, but a hobby established company will not guarantee a minimum of living as soon as possible. He has said that even if they were to channel all their time and strength into their company, it would take six months to a year before they could run the company stablely and it would start generating income for them. At the same time, for the purpose of financing unemployment insurance, the Unemployment Insurance Act provides for a compulsory contribution to cover the person in the event of his or her unemployment. Many of you probably already think that entrepreneurship is always associated with a risk, i.e. the income planned in the business plan may be lost or less than expected. It is true, but our own proposal does not regulate the realisation of this risk, but rather the situation in which the company has essentially ceased its activities and the board member has no income, is factually unemployed. The right to assistance is derived from § 29 (3) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, which says that the state assists job seekers in finding a job. It is also very important to understand that the scope of assistance provided to the unemployed and to the job seeker and to the person who is not unemployed or registered as a job seeker is very different. Everyone has the right to employment mediation, career guidance and job search counselling. If a person has been able to register as unemployed, the most suitable service for him or her is chosen from among 20 employment services. The unemployed may also receive unemployment insurance benefits or unemployment benefits and scholarship and travel and accommodation allowances to cover the costs of providing employment services. In addition, the state or unemployment fund also pays social tax for the unemployed under the Social Tax Act. We cannot agree in any way with the view that, if we want to do so, we will not be able to assess the performance or failure of the company, which is why a law has been drawn up under which unemployment insurance is not intended to mitigate so-called business risks. The argument that, in order to ensure a minimum income, if, for example, a company has missed a business plan or a person has no income, is that there is an income support that is paid when a person is unable to obtain sufficient means of subsistence for himself and his or her family by means other than work or income, is of no importance at present. In fact, the head of the company has contributed through its taxes to the economy of the country and has a legitimate expectation that it will receive support from the State if it is in a really difficult situation. All those who contribute to the so-called self-insurance must also be entitled to cover if the risks materialise. At the same time, we believe that risk mitigation must remain a free choice for a member of the company's board of directors. This relates to the freedom to conduct a business, i.e. everyone must assess whether and what guarantees are needed. This means that entrepreneurship must also be accompanied by the right of self-determination and freedom of choice, which is a characteristic part of this form of action. Thus, if a member of the management board receives a salary for his/her work and his/her salary is calculated and paid unemployment insurance contributions are currently 1.6% + 0.8%, the member of the management board, like any other insurer, is entitled to insurance cover, i.e. unemployment benefit. If a member of the management board receives a salary but decides, for example, not to pay that payment, he or she is also not entitled to unemployment benefit. We need to give a member of the company's board of directors the right to decide whether or not he or she wishes to pay unemployment insurance contributions from a member of the board of directors. If he's given it up voluntarily, he'll take the risks. If, for example, a member of the management board does not receive the salary of a member of the management board but at the same time is working on a salary and unemployment insurance is already paid on that salary, the status of a member of the management board is irrelevant in the event of problems and the insurance pays compensation on the basis of payments paid for that other job. That's not possible right now. The person who has paid unemployment insurance contributions is still not insured. The position that, if a person is a member of the management board of a company, he or she must perform the duties of a member of the management board and is not in employment is not generalising all situations. In fact, unlike the employment relationship, a member of the management board can, as you know, act free of charge. In small business, this is more of a rule. One of the objectives of the legislative amendment made in May 2014 was the fight against fraud. At the time, a year and a half ago, the Ministry of Social Affairs, led by Taavi Rõivas, justified the exclusion of members of the management board from unemployment by the fact that, according to the Ministry, there are about a thousand people in Estonia who do not receive remuneration and have taken into account themselves as unemployed but actually withdraw their fees in some other way, avoiding paying social tax and unemployment insurance contributions. This change was also mentioned at the time with a grenade to kill a mosquito. Mait Palts, Director General of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, has said these words. He has also said that this change will affect everyone at all times. All payments and receipts are known to the IRS. If necessary, a personal decision can be made on whether or not each person has an income. We actually have a number of tools and ways to prevent abuse. There is an absolutely disproportionate path now. There are quite a few who have criticised the law adopted at the time, since Mait Palats, mentioned above. In addition, the Estonian Taxpayers' Association, the Service Economy Chamber, who has even turned to the Chancellor of Justice for this point, the Estonian Employers' Confederation and also several well-known lawyers. They have all received the answer that, despite their knowledge of economic matters, they have completely misunderstood the matter. Clearly, it is considered that the company's manager is not without employment even if it works free of charge, because it works, it manages the company and, if the risks materialise, it is a business risk and the State is not concerned. Any change in the system must ensure that the person who actually lost his or her income is able to register for unemployment and have the opportunity to consume public services provided to the unemployed and, if he or she has contributed to the unemployment insurance system, he or she must also receive insurance benefits. That is the general principle of insurance. However, it should be based on content and the reality of the situation, not on the possible roles of the person. We are proud of our e-governance, often for good reason. Therefore, I sincerely believe that we are also able to assess whether a person is unemployed or not, whether he or she has an income. Apart from the fact that the Tax and Customs Board, which works well, always receives the necessary data, it is possible to ask the person who wants to register as unemployed, whether he or she is still unemployed, and the person can confirm it himself. However, if a person has made false statements, it is always possible to recover the unfairly paid benefits. Finally. In 2011, a legislative amendment was introduced, giving the possibility to become an entrepreneur and to set up private limited companies without a tax. At the time, the sentences also sounded 'Buy an entrepreneur! 'and 'Help yourself! ' '. Let us, then, allow companies themselves to help themselves by doing business, leaving them with the hope that, even if all risks are to materialise at the same time, they will still be able to rely on state aid as taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U93	Any questions for the initiator of the bill? Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U94	Thank you, dear waitress. Would you also give an overview of the progress of the Commission's debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U95	Thank you for your question. I believe that the Commission's debate will immediately be briefed by the chairman of the committee. But of course I can do it myself. The Commission considered the matter to be important. At the same time, attention was drawn to what was confirmed today by the Minister for Health and Labour, that the work plan of both the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice contained an analysis of the current situation, and some of the members of the Commission remained, as I felt, awaiting a position. But I'm sure the next waitress will answer that question more precisely.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U96	Thank you, Monika Hawkhammer! The Commission's rapporteur is Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U97	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee prepared a draft amendment to the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act for the first reading of 92 on 17 November 2015. The representative of the initiator of the draft act presented to the Commission the draft amendment to the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, according to which a member of the company's management board could subsequently be registered as unemployed. Due to the amendment to § 6 of the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, which entered into force on 1 May 2014, a person who is a member of the management board of his company, whether or not he or she is paid as a member of the management board, shall not be counted as unemployed. The members of the Commission discussed whether such a situation was justified. Various examples were provided and questions, opinions and perceptions were different. It was sought to clarify whether the board member was always the owner. To clarify, a member of the board of directors does not have to be the owner of the company. It was discussed that if a member of the management board did not receive a salary and had not paid money to the unemployment fund, whether or not he should receive a benefit. Opinions were both supportive and non-supportive. The waterheaval ran not by parties, but according to the opinions of different people. The opinion also depended on whether a member of the Commission had an entrepreneurial background or not. According to the draft, a member of the company's management board could subsequently be registered as unemployed. The current regime does not allow this. The explanatory memorandum states that an amendment is intended to restore the arrangements in force until 1 May 2014, according to which the head of the company who received the remuneration of a member of the management board was not registered as unemployed. However, the wording of the draft act allows the member of the company's management board to be registered as unemployed even if he has received remuneration. The draft therefore amends both the current version of the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the version of the Labour Market Services and Allowances Act which was in force until 1 May 2014 by allowing the registration of a member of the company's management board as unemployed, whether or not he receives the remuneration of a member of the management board. The members of the Commission expressed the opinion that there were shortcomings in the draft and that an analysis by the Ministry of Justice in December of this year should be expected and then discussed in depth. The Commission also made decisions. It was decided to appoint Mr Aivar Kokk, President of the Commission, as rapporteur (consensually), to send the draft to first reading by 24 November (consensually) and to propose that the draft be rejected (by 6 members of the Commission, 1 against and 1 abstention). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U98	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Aivar Chef! I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations because no one's talking. The commission has proposed to reject the draft 92 at first reading. We need to vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject 92 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 49 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the commission's proposal, 32 against and no one abstained. Draft 92 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U99	The first reading of the draft law 96 on the amendment to the law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party begins. In the name of the initiators, the waitress is Mikhail Stalnukhin. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U100	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the draft law is to supplement § 10 (3) of the Law on the limitation of the acquisition of immovable property, which would give...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U101	One moment, Mikhail Stalnukhin, I'm sorry! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you. Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U102	... for all long-term residents of Estonia, the possibility of acquiring up to 0,2 hectares of land in zones where the right to acquire immovable property is limited. I do not want to offend my colleagues by doubting that they do not remember what was happening in this Chamber two months ago when I gave a two-hour presentation and answered the questions. So today I'm gonna end up in this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U103	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. The commission is the Committee on Legal Affairs and the rapporteur is Kristjan Kõljalg. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U104	Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the draft at its meeting. The position of the Government of the Republic is not to support this draft. This was explained in such a way that the Government of the Republic has a point set out in its programme of activities which, by May 2016, will draw up an analysis of the creation of a border zone under the direction of the Minister of the Interior, proposals for restrictions based on the existence of a border zone, etc. Although the government felt that there was no point in supporting the draft law, the Committee on Legal Affairs considered that the first reading of the draft could be completed and could be done today. In addition, the Commission decided that the deadline for submitting amendments would be 8 December at 5 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U105	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Kristjan Kõljalg! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. On a proposal from the commission of directors, the first reading of the 96 draft has been completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5 p.m. on 8 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U106	First reading of the draft law on the application of the Riigikogu members Andre Sepa, Andres Anvelt, Anne Sullingu, Ants Laaneots, Eerik-Niiles Krossi, Eiki Nestor, Heidy Purga, Heljo Pikhofi, Helmen Küti, Imre Sooääre, Ivari Padari, Jaanus Marrandi, Johannes Kerdi, Jüri Jaansoni, Kalev Kotkase, Kalle Pallingu, Kalvi Hardy, Keit Pentus-Rosimdose, Kristjan Kõljala, Laine Randjärve, Lauri Luige, Liina Kersna, Madis Millingu, Marianne Mikko, Maris Lauri, Mark Soosaare, Martin Kuke, Mati Raidma, Meelis Mälbergi, Mihkel Rau, Rainer Vakra, Remo Holsmeri, Sven Mikser, Tanel Talve, Urve Palo, Valdo Randpere, Valdo Randpere, Vilja Savosaar-Tamaar-Tamaar Act 114. On behalf of the initiators of the draft act, the rapporteur is Mr Heljo Pikhof, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U107	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On 20 October 2015, 38 members of the Riigikogu initiated the draft law implementing the Cohabitation Act. Apparently, some have noticed that the signatories are outnumbered in the Riigikogu. But this is nothing to be ashamed of, because with the draft we also stand up for minority rights to a large extent. As initiators, we still believe that Estonia's legal order must comply with the values of the Constitution, and the majority of the Riigikogu finally believes that it is the task of the state to uphold the rights of its citizens, including the rights of minorities. The inclusion of minorities in society shows that there is real freedom. We see Estonia as a state of freedom, not as a state of stagnation restricting people's opportunities. After all, it is obvious that we defend people's right to join, their right to education, freedom of opinion, or also their religious rights. However, we must not forget that people also have the right to equal treatment and non-discrimination. As members of the Riigikogu, we must respect all constitutional rights and must not choose between them. After all, it is normal in a free society that we do not repress the freedom of citizens to express their thoughts on religious grounds, for example, to hold picts before the Riigikogu. Similarly, the Riigikogu must not ignore the right of minorities to be protected by law. All of the above is the reason why the draft law on the implementation of the Cohabitation Act is being discussed in the Riigikogu. This is the continuation of the Cohabitation Act already adopted in the previous composition of the Riigikogu. The basic decisions on the content of the Cohabitation Act, i.e. the nature of the legal relationship, were made at the time of the adoption of the Cohabitation Act. The Implementing Act is based on the gender-neutral regulation of the adoption of the Cohabitation Act, which covers the legal relationships between persons who have concluded a partnership agreement and the legal relationships with third parties. Implementing law is necessary in order to have clear rules, in other words, clarity of law, how and on what legal basis entries are made in registers and what the effects of this legal relationship are in specific areas. They are necessary for partners to better understand the obligations arising from the partnership agreement and for the state to better protect people's rights in specific situations. Implementing provisions are also necessary for third parties who themselves have not concluded a partnership agreement. These provisions may be necessary for these people, for example, to see who owns the car or apartment and whether it can be bought or sold at all. By implementing legislation, we ensure constitutional protection for couples of the same sex as for couples of the same sex. The Chancellor of Justice has also referred to the need to protect the rights arising from the Constitution. I believe it is worth pointing out again that this is not a political show of power. The conclusion of a life together is a decision between two people; the state should not put a hand in front of it or take a stand against it or prevent it altogether. Resolving the legal situation by law does not force or force anyone to change their opinions or beliefs. They will continue to shape each person. With regard to the draft law implementing the Cohabitation Act, the initiators of the draft act have also taken into account the need to avoid another constitutional situation arising from the failure to give a legislative act. It follows from the Constitution that the fundamental rights of persons to the procedure and organisation must be guaranteed and, failing that, it must be accompanied by claims for damages against the State. However, this would be an unnecessary cost for the state, as the outcome of the disputes is easy to predict. Now I will be more specific about the substance of the bill. This is quite a large bill, and 85 laws are being amended together. In addition to the procedural rules, the purpose of the draft is to determine the status of the partner in the legal system as a whole. Generally speaking, the draft deals with three types of issues. First, a registered partner is treated as a related person and it is ensured that conflicts of interest are avoided. Secondly, a registered partner is treated as a close relative and as a family member. Thirdly, the benefits and benefits granted to a partner are considered. Everywhere, it is based on what is already provided for in the Cohabitation Act. The principles are not changed in the Implementation Act. A close relationship can be expected between registered partners, such as all family members, and it is therefore foreseen that a conflict of interest is likely to arise. Therefore, in the case of persons closely associated with the Estonian legal order, there are restrictions or safeguards provided for in several laws in order to achieve a result through a fair, fair and seemingly fair process to avoid conflicts of interest. The bill places a registered partner as a related person in the provisions of the law in order to avoid potential conflicts of interest and to ensure a fair and fair process for achieving results. The current wording and tendencies of the provisions were also supported by the inclusion of the partners' associated persons. Regulation relating to close or family members mainly concerns procedural guarantees, the involvement and information of close persons in important decisions, but it also relates to the assumption that family members and family members share common economic interests and that incomes are used jointly. It is important that the family members have the opportunity to refuse to testify in proceedings as a witness against a loved one, to be involved, to provide information, to be heard or to have the right of appeal when placing a person in a closed establishment, in family matters, in parentage, adoption, in the provision of health care and in the submission of death data. Common economic interests are taken into account when awarding grants, such as income support or education support. As partners can be expected to have a close emotional connection, the draft considers it important that they are also involved in the processes related to the other partner, and the provisions have therefore been improved. A number of benefits have been granted to close relatives and family members, such as the possibility to submit a joint income tax return, to pay social tax as a self-employed person on behalf of the spouse, to accommodate someone in the spouse's rental dwelling without the consent of the lessor or to enter into a lease agreement as a party, to obtain a special residence permit, to exclude the right of pre-emption of the state or local government or to pay a lower fee in the event of transfer. The draft provides for additions to the partners, taking into account the relationship between the parties, including the relationship between the mutual maintenance obligation and the property relationship. This is therefore a draft which determines how the principles agreed in the Cohabitation Act will look more specifically in the legal order. There is no intention to change the principles of the Cohabitation Act with the draft. For every law, it is self-evident that its implementation must work in everyday life. This is precisely the objective of the draft in question. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U108	Thank you. Any questions for the initiators' waitress? No, it's not. The rapporteur is Mr Valdo Randpere, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U109	Ladies and gentlemen, President-in-Office of the Council. I am pleased to present you with a very good draft, which has been discussed several times in different forms by the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee, and we have also heard from representatives of interest groups. I want to report to you today on how the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee discussed the draft before sending it to the large hall. We will come to these other debates, hopefully, during the second reading. For example, the House of Notaries has tabled a large number of proposals that we could discuss, which we are discussing and which will certainly come before you as amendments at second reading. In this context, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the draft at its meeting on 29 October. The following issues mainly came into question. Firstly, whether or not the government has to give its opinion on a draft at all. We jointly understood what the law has provided for, that the government can give its opinion and that it has a time limit for doing so. This deadline had not actually arrived at the time of the Commission meeting. The government later gave up its opinion, and this possibility is also provided for in Estonian law. The government doesn't have to give an opinion. As to why he did not give this opinion, you have been able to ask questions to the Prime Minister several times. You already know the answers. The Commission meeting also addressed the issue of adoption. In fact, in the case of the implementing provisions that are at issue today, perhaps there would be no reason to talk so much about it, because the principles of adoption in relation to registered partnerships are laid down in the Cohabitation Act, which was adopted by the previous Riigikogu and will apply from 1 January 2016. Although this issue was also under discussion in the Commission as to whether or not it would apply or how to interpret the sentence that the Cohabitation Act will apply from 1 January 2016 with the corresponding implementing provisions. Both the Chancellor of Justice and the Legal Affairs Committee and, I would say, almost all leading lawyers in Estonia have come to the conclusion that the Cohabitation Act will in any case apply from 1 January 2016. The only thing is that if the implementing provisions of the Riigikogu are not adopted, the application of this law will be relatively difficult for people who should apply this law on behalf of the state, such as notaries who are going to enter into contracts, as well as those who are affected by this law. There is a risk that notaries will have to start figuring out exactly how they will register together, but people will go to court and demand the state to keep their promises. The majority of the Commission understood that it would be very rational and reasonable from a national point of view to lay down implementing provisions. By doing it the other way around, the state would even act like a word-breaker. In the longer term, the European Court of Human Rights has been discussing such cases. Against Italy, some Italian citizens had gone to court precisely because the state did not allow such a partnership to be registered. The European Court of Human Rights was very unanimous and Italy was fined for it. In the Commission, there was a question as to whether a similar course of action could also take place in relation to Estonia. This cannot be ruled out, of course, but the representatives of the Ministry of Justice made it clear that such parallels cannot be drawn by the copy-and-paste method, every case is discussed separately by the court. But basically, the tendency is clearly that the state is expected to make less ethical assessments of people's life together. Rather, it is assumed that the state will provide a legal framework so that people can regulate their cohabitation and property relationships as easily as possible. There was also a question of whether this draft was perhaps too maximistic. The representative of the Free Party stated that a minimalist approach could also be used. In principle, the law on partnership has been adopted anyway, and the implementing provisions are essentially technical provisions which, to a large extent, contain the addition of the concept of registered partnership to existing laws, which include either marriage or family, and the introduction of the new term'registered partner'. Most of the changes made to the law are of a technical nature; these new concepts are simply incorporated into those laws. If there is some sort of minimalist or maximistic approach here, I cannot imagine which laws we would exclude from the implementing provisions and say that they can or will come into force on the basis of case law. In any case, it would be impractical and make people's lives more difficult. After discussing some other issues, procedural decisions were reached, which are as follows: We proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 24 November 2015, which was yesterday, but since the debate on yesterday's agenda went further, we are discussing this draft today. We propose that the first reading be closed (by 5 members of the Commission, 1 against and no abstentions). When the first reading is closed, we propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5 p.m. on 8 December (consensus decision). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U110	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U111	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you, good waitress. This implementing law is not only a technical thing, but it also changes the law of cohabitation itself, to be honest. But I have a problem with vacatio legis regarding the date of adoption of the law, which is December 17. How has it been analysed? It's a legal term, you as a lawyer should know that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U112	But what's December 17th? I don't know where you're taking it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U113	Time limit for entry into force.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U114	We have a first reading now and we have proposed that the deadline for tabling amendments should be 8 December. We have not been able to make any decisions as to when this bill could come to second reading in the large hall, much less when it could come to third reading, and even less when it could be the deadline for entry into force. So, March, now you're talking in a language I don't understand. But your first statement is true, yes. In part, in two or three points, this law also amends the existing law on partnership, which concerns the right to action and the time of right to action. But heljo Pikhof talked about it for a while, so I'm not gonna stop at it anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U115	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U116	Good manager! Good waitress! I quote: 'We are here to adopt a law that is legally a complete failure and from which many details have been taken out that, for God's sake, no 51 votes are needed. ' Do you agree with your party partner, Väino Linde, saying here in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U117	First of all, I don't recognize this quote. But Väino Linde has the right, of course, to think anything under the conditions of freedom of speech. I think he expressed that opinion about the Law on Partnerships. This opinion is a thing of the past. Despite this statement of opinion, the previous Riigikogu decided to adopt the Cohabitation Act. There were 40 members in favour and 38 members of the Riigikogu against me. So everyone has an opinion on this matter and has the right to have it and to make it known.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U118	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U119	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I mean, not only are there any contradictions at a few points. For example, the draft contains an amendment to § 80 of the Aliens Act. What do you make of that? What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U120	As I said earlier, I think it is a very good draft in all its perfection and perfection. I think that this amendment to the Aliens Act, to which you refer, is also justified by the fact that the Cohabitation Act must apply as smoothly as possible to everyone affected by it. I see no contradiction or reason to pick out this point separately. But if you have a different opinion and you think that there is something wrong with the law at this point or at another point, then I suggest you support the completion of the first reading and present an amendment between the first reading and the second reading. It is not our desire or desire to simply push through or adopt the law at any cost in this form. We want to make this law as good as possible. If any of us or one of you are able to detect any shortcomings and correct them, it is very, very welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U121	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Central Party of Toomas Vitsut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U122	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, In a situation where, on 9 October 2014, the previous Parliament established a substantive basis for the conclusion of a partnership, the current Parliament has been left an obligation to lay down rules to guarantee the rights deriving from the law as an inheritance. On 20 October this year, 38 members of the Riigikogu initiated the draft law implementing the Cohabitation Act, although creating legal clarity is certainly not in the hands of anyone other than the government. It's in the hands of the government, after all. On 29 October, the Government of the Republic arrived so far at the draft law implementing the Law on Partnerships that it sent it to the Committee on Legal Affairs. When I asked for the government's position there, the answer came that this position would come. It soon became clear that the government is not really going to take a stand on this issue. At the same time, when the Cohabitation Act was adopted, the deadline for the entry into force of the implementing acts was 1 January 2016. Failure to lay down the rules governing the organisation of the law results in a conflict with § 14 of the Constitution. What a mess! The fact that the government did not take a stand on this matter means, in fact, that one of the issues that caused much emotions is being dealt with with by the hands of the opposition, I think it would be better to say that the voices of the opposition. The vote of 38 initiators is not enough to adopt the draft as a law, which requires at least 51 votes. It is clear from the confusion of the government that there will be no votes left inside the coalition. The Group of the Centre Party discussed this issue and we found that confusion and emotions in resolving this issue and that it was not our choice to adopt the law. That is why we are voting against the adoption of the draft law on the implementation of the Cohabitation Act as a law, but we want to know from the former government how the situation is to be resolved. We have submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu. The Minister of Justice announced in April that he did not intend to deal with the implementing acts of the adopted Cohabitation Act, but we believe that it is primarily the government's task to ensure legal clarity. The government must also shape its position on this issue and offer a solution. The processing of implementing acts is an example of how laws should not be processed in the Riigikogu. For our part, we are trying to contribute to resolving this issue and we are considering supporting the Free Party draft, but we are not in favour of the adoption of the Law on the Implementation of the Cohabitation Act in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U123	Thank you. Yoko Alender of the Reform Party, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U124	I welcome you as a mother of four children married for the first time as a representative of a group before this House. I'm so glad we're free, we're working and we're talking. Yesterday's Postman wrote that Estonians prefer to have a common-law relationship. 16% of the subjects were married and 34% lived in a free partnership; only 41.5% of the children had been registered. In a free partnership, the legal guarantees provided to the parties so far are not in the same way as in a marriage, which probably has meant less certainty for women. Here in the saal, there has often been a worrying talk of a child. I prefer to talk about a family-friendly environment. But indeed, if we want more children to be born, the confidence of women is very important. The everyday implementation of the Cohabitation Act, the implementing acts being dealt with here, awaits a large number of common-law couples, including a small number of same-sex couples. As Estonians, we have had to be flexible and industrious to develop into a free European citizen state in about 2 x 20 years. It is not easy to change people's attitudes and prejudices. As human beings, we often change through pain, and what originally seemed strange becomes clear, not because of anyone's argumentation, but through personal real experience. However, it is the duty of the state to ensure equal protection of the rights of all people. As members of the Riigikogu, we have the power and responsibility to do this not only for the members of the coalition, but for all of us with our mandate. I recently sent the President of the Republic to Denmark on a visit. We also met local Estonian youths there. One young man was delighted that the Law on Cohabitation was passed because his partner and his partner were a minority of same-sex couples. He said he couldn't come back to Estonia yet, because his parents accept his partner's choice, but they don't talk about it, it's a taboo issue. Today, however, we are talking about such things. Estonia has a unique living environment, both natural and man-made. As an architect, I have always considered it important to emphasise this. We are further developing the legal, but also the spiritual, environment through the law here. If we value every person who lives here as a country, we'll be bigger. I think we're ready for this. We're being intimidated and emotionally played in the information war on a number of sides. The sacred union of marriage is in danger, then Estonian culture and finally the whole white race. I think that we can manage with a small number of refugees, guests and local Estonians who arrive here, rather well. We can manage when we talk to each other when we talk about what really is and how we can help each other make the world a better place. Politics is also one way to change the world. Imagine that you can't follow your partner if he's going to work abroad and can't be at the hospital next to him if he gets sick. Imagine that the children you raise together do not have the same rights and protection as your children's friends who grow up in the family of married parents. By means of implementing legislation, however, you will receive all these rights. At the same time, best of all, the situation of your married friends will not deteriorate in any way. On the contrary, they've gotten a few more satisfied friends or neighbors. The Estonian state as a whole, however, will receive a number of citizens who feel better, protected here. Obviously, it is not unfounded to claim that these people are also more willing to defend their country. For those who represent a conservative view of the world and are perhaps more conservative in nature, I would also like to make a few arguments. They've been borrowed from David Cameron, the world's first conservatory. He supports the Cohabitation Act in England, though, because he is conservative, the possibility for same-sex couples to marry. Conservatives, however, believe in strong ties and responsibility. Society is stronger when we make promises to each other, we support each other. The implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act, when we adopt them, now allow us to do so in a gender-neutral way in Estonia as well. There are certainly nuances in the draft, which we can improve together during the procedure. Today I ask you to support the completion of the first reading of the draft law on the implementation of the Cohabitation Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U125	Thank you. Martin Helme, Estonian Conservative People's Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U126	Mr. Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, It's short. The Estonian Conservative People's Party does not support the implementation of the Cohabitation Act because we do not support the Cohabitation Act. In our view, this is a product of extremely poor political practice and exceptionally unsuccessful legislation. Our aim is to abolish the Cohabitation Act itself, so we cannot support it in any way. We therefore propose voting the draft out of the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U127	Mihkel Raud, Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U128	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear colleagues! The implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act that we are dealing with today are, on the one hand, clearly technical. The Cohabitation Act will be in force from the beginning of next year and implementation will require 85 laws to be brought into line with the Cohabitation Act. Nothing more, nothing more complicated, nothing more fundamental. Politically, of course, it would be safe to confine itself to this observation, to talk at length about whether this law of cohabitation is what it is, certainly not perfect, certainly it has caused a lot of tension in society, but well, it is, as it is, now we have a technical draft before us, and only as a technical one, it must also be dealt with. For the Social Democrats, however, the debate here today is fundamental. We are not going to knock down our eyes and hide behind the technical nature of the draft in the fear of losing a possible political point. On the contrary, we believe that the cohabitation law passed last year is nothing less than an epoch creative. This is a big and bold step towards an open Estonia with equal respect for all its citizens. In the direction of Estonia, where the Social Democrats and, we believe, the majority of Estonian people want to live. Therefore, the Social Democrats consider it essential for the Riigikogu to adopt implementing legislation on partnership law. We consider it elementary that the laws adopted in this Chamber allow the people of Estonia to live because of the benefits of the Riigikogu or the laws adopted by it, if they are to apply, but their day-to-day implementation is impossible. By failing to adopt the implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act, we would act like a real estate developer who has built a house for a customer but refuses to hand over the keys because there have been changes in the company's board and the new management has new plans for the house. He has decided to tear it down, which is because the family who had to move in has already arrived at the door of a new home with furniture. Speaking of families, a number of vocal opponents of the Cohabitation Act are trying to monopolise the right to define the family. They know exactly what's family and what's not family. They cut rockproofly that only a man and a woman can form a family. Therefore, my good friends Karola and Ann are not family, because they themselves believe that they are, which is because they are happy with each other. The debate around the law of cohabitation is, in fact, a debate about happiness and lack of happiness. It's a discussion about being happy and unhappy. By adopting the law of cohabitation last year, the Riigikogu gave many people the opportunity to be happy. I've seen these people, I've been talking to them. They need this law, this law really helps them to be happy. We have been told that the happiness of same-sex partners makes special-sex partners unhappy. It has been confirmed that by legitimizing the partnership of homosexuals, the Riigikogu destroyed the chances of a partnership of heterosexuals. One of the opponents of the Cohabitation Act told me about a friend who tore up her marriage certificate on the day of the adoption of the Cohabitation Act. He did not do this foolishly, although it would undoubtedly be very easy to imagine, because he was an unhappy person. Why is he unhappy, no one can guess without knowing the person, but a happy person does not tear things apart, raging in anonymous commentaries, or calling others names on social media. That's what an unhappy person does. A family whose members are unhappy will not be happy if the other family is not allowed to be happy. On the contrary, I think that one person's happiness will help another person to be happier, as 101 people's happiness will help thousands to be happy. Dear colleagues, I urge you to be happy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U129	Thank you. Jüri Adams on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U130	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The previous speaker, in my opinion, mystified the task and the text before us, which we must decide on today. There are 49 pages of this text. In part, this text is so dull that no one can read it, the other parts are again very technical and almost incomprehensible to everyone. I very much doubt whether, apart from the main author of the text, who I know is Kristen Kanarik, whose ability to work I truly admire, he has probably spent hundreds of if not thousands of hours to get this text ready, someone has read this text thoroughly. I doubt it. It is more important for us to evaluate the content of the text rather than to know the text itself by heart. The fundamental question is whether this 49-page text is needed to make a sleepy law work. I argue that, in principle, this law could have worked already, before adoption, if there were two people in Estonia who would have tried to sign the treaty, and at least one notary who would have agreed to help them. Unfortunately, I don't know such a precedent, so if anyone knows, they could tell me. My opinion is firstly that this 49-page text is not needed to achieve the objective that is being proclaimed. Secondly, I would argue that this is not necessary at all, because this law would have more negative consequences than hopeful good consequences. What are these problems, said in the most concentrated version of the explanatory memorandum of the couple's draft law that was launched yesterday? I'll mark it in a few words. What are the main problems? The vast majority of this 49-page text consists of finding out in Estonian law all the places where the word'marriage' or 'wife' is used, supplemented by'registered partnership' and'registered partner'. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! If this is legislation, we would not be needed here, it would be enough to launch one of the computers that will do this for us, and it would be much cheaper and easier for the Estonian state to run without us. Secondly, in all places where families, married people, for some reason, are given money from the state or local government budget, the draft states that partners must also have the same right to receive money. I don't have time to start this argument right now, but I think the principle is wrong. If the Estonian state gives money to spouses, this is done for a completely different reason. In fact, there is an ulterior motive, or at least a small hope, that there will also be a small family. That's the reason. I don't know of any kind of money being given just because someone wanted to make a marriage. Thirdly, on these 49 pages, a number of other laws are being amended to such an extent that it can be said that, in the course of this, first, a completely new law on the matrimonial property register is being developed. A lot is also being changed... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U131	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U132	... the law of proof and the law of foreigners, to name the three most extensive. I would argue that these areas are not related at all to this issue. Good lawmaking is, in my opinion, that of trying to make the law as short as possible. The shorter the law, the better. This bill does not meet this requirement. Secondly, this political objective, which is being pursued, is being pursued as directly as possible. The same problem was the main text of the Cohabitation Act. In my opinion, it is right for things to be taken one step at a time. Now the main conclusions. Firstly, this 49-page text is largely unnecessary. Secondly, if the law enters into force in this form, whether it will produce any positive results at all, I will not be able to evaluate it now, but the negative results will be very much in other Estonian laws and the negative consequences will be outweighed in the preliminary assessment. So the general proposal is that it would be reasonable to reject this draft in this form and then start working as one Parliament should work, namely purposefully, professionally and in a spirit of political cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U133	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Viktoria Ladynskaja, Isamaa and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U134	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Cohabitation Act and its implementing acts are probably the hottest law in Estonia in recent years. There are three important questions about this law. First of all, the first of them. After all, society does not really argue about what was in the draft a year ago, but this discussion was caused by fears from one and another part of society. Fear touches what lies between the lines of this law. This is the nature of same-sex marriage and the resulting next step of adoption by same-sex couples. One side wants it, but it hides it between the lines, the other side fears it and tries to read it between the lines. Laws aren't just papers, they're the living people behind them. The law of cohabitation is also behind the people who are now writing to us on a massive basis. I will not close my eyes, as if not accepting the reality of the situation, even though this label is being unjustly applied to the IRL and to us at all. I have a close person who's a lesbian. He's one of those people who tried to prove to the surrounding and himself that he's like everyone else. He even married and gave birth to children until at one point he decided that everything would stop lying to loved ones, men, society, and himself. She divorced, reported a new one to her parents, even to teenage children. A lot of people didn't understand him. I didn't understand him either until I saw him take a violin in a room full of people, get down on his knees in the middle of the room and start playing. And in that instrument, in the pose, in the music, and in him, there was a great deal of loneliness. Of course, we also talked about his rights in our society. I'm not a homophobe. If anyone finds out he's fouled with a violin, they'll throw a stone at me. But if anyone is convinced that a life like his must become the norm, let his stone fly at me. I don't think a person can be banned from being who he is. I don't care who you share a bed with or who you need to love, if the other side agrees. But I object to this demonstration against promoting gay parades, same-sex love, declaring same-sex marriage the norm. Man has the right to be free until exactly that moment when his desires begin to restrict the freedom of others. This is where the root of fear lies. Allowing same-sex marriages immediately raises the question of whether it may be accompanied by a permit for adoption. Children are always a reflection of the surrounding adults. This means, however, that this authorisation would represent a step towards changing the rules. As I said earlier, I cannot accept that as the norm. Now question two. My speech is definitely not a hate speech. I don't hate, I'm trying to understand. But last year's events, related to that law, made me think. By adopting the Cohabitation Act last year, instead of uniting society, society was divided. The question is this: does and now who needs more protection? It seems to me that today we have come to the point that non-Participants of the Cohabitation Act need more protection than those who are so strongly highlighted by this law. Traditions need protection: formal marriage of husband and wife, families rich in children, children and their rights, clear standards, faith and traditional marriage. Now, question three. How was this law passed? Most of the people in the IRL Group were against the Cohabitation Act. We are also opposed to implementing legislation. We believe that there is no need for a law that was not in favour of the majority of society and which has been done hastily and in such a way that it does not solve the problems of its 'focus group' either. Bad legislative practice and uncertainty can lead to a number of court decisions and costs for the taxpayer. We know that most of the things that should be governed by the Law on Cohabitation can be done without this law. There is only one way to not enforce the Cohabitation Act: its annulment by the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U135	Thank you. All the political groups have been given the floor and the negotiations have therefore been concluded. Helmen Hunter, is it a procedural question? No, it's not. [[Interjection.]] Thank you. The Governing Commission's proposal is a draft 114... Yes, Helmen Hunter, please! (Heckling. Laughter.) Thank you. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 114, but since the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has proposed to reject the draft law on the implementation of the Cohabitation Act 114 at first reading, we will proceed to the vote on this proposal. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U136	Thank you! On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U137	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U138	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to reject draft law on the implementation of the Cohabitation Act 114 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 41 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 42 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. First reading of Bill 114 is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 114 amendments, including 8 December at 17:00. The fourth item has been discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U139	Let's go to agenda number five. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Colleagues, let's go to agenda number five! The third reading of the draft Act 84 on the amendment of the Labour Capacity Allowance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws begins. Is there a desire to negotiate? George Jaanson, please! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U140	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, A year ago, on 19 November 2014, we passed the Labour Capacity Support Act in this Chamber, which will launch a work capacity reform next year. With the employment capacity reform, we move from the disability pension system to the capacity benefit system. The basis for this is the assessment of the capacity to work and activity measures under the Employment Capacity Allowance Act, where the beneficiaries receive the capacity allowance. This is a fundamental change in the inclusion of people with special needs and reduced working capacity in employment and social life. The reform will provide full support to target groups through the unemployment fund, assessing their employability and providing recommendations and assistance to improve working conditions and access to facilities and rehabilitation services. The current system of disability pensions is unsustainable both in terms of involving people with special needs and in financial terms. Independent studies and the views of the parties involved in the reform have confirmed the necessity of reform of the system. In order to implement a sustainable solution and involve people with special needs and reduced working capacity in society and employment, we will have 354 million euros of European Social Fund and Estonian state budget funds to be used over the next six years. This is the largest social reform in Estonia in recent years. Today, there are operational changes to the Employment Capacity Allowance Act and other laws related to it, which will make it smoother and better for the target groups of the law to start working capacity reform. The amendments do not concern the principles of the labour capacity reform, nor does the Employment Capacity Allowance Act change significantly. At the same time, it is a law that does not enter into force, which results in the volume of the draft. The law adopted last year is set to enter into force on 1 January 2016. The draft Act amending the Employment Capacity Allowance Act and related amendments to other laws will be postponed to 1 July 2016 and this law is scheduled to enter into force on 20 December. a. Deferral of the reform is due to the need to develop social information systems and to prepare implementing legislation for their use, as well as to the need for additional time to purchase high-quality work capacity assessment services. At the same time, amendments to the Labour Market Services and Support Act relating to the provision of labour market services will enter into force on 1 January next year, i.e. at the beginning of the following year. This will ensure that people have access to additional labour market services at the beginning of the new year. In addition to delaying the start of the work capacity reform, some further changes have been proposed in the draft law. First of all, the possibility of a income gap arising during the transition from disability pension to disability benefit will be eliminated and people will be guaranteed a smooth continuation of income through support. Secondly, the draft law specifies the requirements for the processing of health data, which must ensure that sensitive personal data are handled within the minimum necessary limits. In addition, the draft makes it easier to apply at the same time for the assessment of working capacity and for the determination of the degree of disability, to specify the calculation of the amount of compensation, as well as to establish a causal link between the damage to health and the offence of violence, the accident at work, the occupational disease, the accident and the performance of a duty. Good listeners! I would like to thank the members of the working capacity reform steering group involved in the preparation of the draft law and the institutions and other parties who have actively participated in it and have made comments and amendments. Among other things, I would like to thank the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People and its sub-organisations, the Estonian Association of Vocational Patients, the associations of cities and rural municipalities, as well as other representatives of target groups and the Social Affairs Committee officials for their work in preparing the draft law. I would like to express my special thanks to the opposition for its critical mind and for the substantive amendments, many of which found expression in the draft law. When I conclude, the reform of working capacity will significantly improve the chances of people with reduced working capacity on the labour market, and they will now be more similar to those of members of society with special needs. This will allow people with reduced working capacity to increase their incomes. The Reform Party invites all parties involved to successfully implement the work capacity reform and today to vote in favour of amending the Employment Capacity Allowance Act and, in this connection, adopting the draft law amending other laws as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U141	Thank you. Marika Tuus-Laul from the Centre Party Group, please! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U142	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Work capacity reform has been mentioned as the biggest reform in the last 10 to 15 years in the social field. Well, he's going to claim it, isn't he? In this case, however, it is increasingly questionable why such an important reform involving so many people has been so inadequate, sloppy and unknowingly carried out. Already at second reading a week ago, I recalled that the law on capacity support was passed a year ago in this Chamber, although the errors and shortcomings of the law were well known at that time. They even wanted to enter into a goodwill agreement to mitigate the tensions that have arisen around the reform of working capacity: we are going to adopt this law and then the new composition will be able to correct it and complete it and write the missing laws as well. Except no one wanted to sign this blank paper. The law was adopted and did not help with all-Estonian crutches and wheelchair demonstrations, road rollers, warnings or prayers. Thus the Ministry of Social Affairs immediately made an amendment to the law of the Riigikogu, which was not yet in force at the time of the new or current composition of the Riigikogu, to the amendment of the Act on Employment Capacity Support, and in connection with the amendment of other laws. This new bill was also a glitch that we were going to fix. A week ago, I said that we sat on it for tens of hours, actually because the Ministry had failed to do its job. Our councillors were also overwhelmed. One of the errors of this law was that its various parts and the written laws did not ring together, even though the paragraphs were lifted from one law to another. In short, it was a total mess. One team did one part, the other part did the other. Let me remind you again of a few nuances. A week ago, I explained that the biggest job win was that we could change a very embarrassing point that the Ministry had written into the law. If we hadn't fixed it, all of our health records, which we know are kept secret, would have come to light. These data, which are available today only to our doctors, would have been given direct access, or green road to motor insurance companies. For example, they could have used it to find out what disease a person had before he was in an accident, and so on. I mean, the business interests of the private company, the business interests of the insurance company were supreme. Fortunately, however, such a powerful demand and a loud voice for the Data Protection Inspectorate, but also, of course, the demands of the opposition groups and the joint demand of the Social Affairs Committee forced the Ministry to withdraw this point from the draft. That's how this outrageous thing could be prevented. Remember, health information is collected from us in a coercive manner. But it was incredible that the Ministry of Social Affairs had written such a section into the law, even though some years ago the representative of the Ministry at the Commission confirmed with great certainty that health information must only remain between the patient and the health care provider. We certainly do not agree yet with the abolition of the so-called 'employment allowance'. We believe that the travel allowance paid by the unemployment fund does not fully replace the unemployment allowance, as the latter is still a permanent allowance. It is currently paid to people of working age to compensate for additional disability costs every month. True, this support is difficult to access, people have to fill out a lot of paperwork for it and, as a result, few people use it, but we could have made it better. However, if seven euros are lost each month, this is significant given the already small amount of support. In the meantime, there was hope that we could keep it, and the Committee on Social Affairs also proposed a correction, but after a few minutes of the debate in the next room, we realised that it was decided not to vote on the Commission's own amendment. We also cannot accept the vote on our proposal for a correction that would have helped people with partial employment in the public sector to find easier employment. The state could pay social tax on these people. This would allow the state, as well as local authorities, to recruit people with partial employment capacity. In particular, this change would help precisely the municipalities which, as we know, are already lacking in funds. This, too, had been agreed earlier, but this amendment was now voted down. As we see that the reform is intended to be launched without seeing how jobs are still created for people with disabilities and partial working capacity, and whether they are wanted at all, even though this should be the main point of the work capacity reform, and we also see a number of other shortcomings here, the Central Party Group cannot support this draft as such and we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U143	Monika Haukanõm, the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U144	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will speak here before you for the second time during the working hours of this Riigikogu. I have also opened this subject before you during the previous term of office, but I did do so in a slightly different role. I have said many times and I am also saying that this reform is a step in the very right direction. However, I have been critical of this reform. This law was made and prepared for quite a number of years. Why have I always supported it, both before and now? Any disabled person who is able and willing to take part in working life must have opportunities and conditions in place so that he or she can exercise his or her right. Today, too, many people with disabilities can work, and many do. But I'm sure he wants to do it more people, but it's not always possible. Unfortunately, I do not have the confidence that this opportunity will also arise next year, there are quite a few obstacles ahead. I have supported this reform because it has opened up a discussion in society. As far as I'm concerned, I don't think we've ever talked about people with disabilities in the last few years. Thanks to this discussion, the attitude towards people with disabilities has changed in society, we are more aware of the needs of people with disabilities, we take them more equally, and this is a direct issue of human dignity. Why am I critical today, now and now? Because, in my opinion, there is one big question as to why it was necessary to push through the draft law on capacity support so quickly and forcefully last year, despite repeated complaints that the reform has started at the wrong end and the prerequisites for success have not been created. I am thinking here of the biggest complaint to reform: unequal or even lack of access to the services needed to work. The Estonian Chamber of Disabled People has repeatedly pointed out that reform must not be rushed, but postponed. It is very good that the reform has been postponed. This six months is actually the minimum time. Secondly, it must be recognised and commended that the draft that is currently on our table has improved and that there is progress. But we need to get back to the ground right now and realise that many of the bottlenecks are still present, in today's situation. These bottlenecks can actually create more problems. What am I talking about? I'll mark them on a few things. Firstly, we are amending the Social Benefits for Persons with Disabilities Act and we want to abolish the unemployment allowance, which was also pointed out by the previous speaker. That doesn't make any sense. Secondly, the target groups, several members of the Social Affairs Committee, as well as the political groups, have pointed out that it may be necessary to amend the social tax law and to introduce a so-called social tax speciality for public bodies when they employ disabled people. It says here that there is no point in doing this because we are simply transferring money from one pocket to another. I do not quite agree with this, because public institutions are also, for example, a rural library or a university where the recruitment of a disabled person inevitably entails additional costs. Next, one door policy. Very right and good politics, but I'm afraid that's not real. There are still several doors, people still have to apply to different places for identification of, for example, disability or disability. At the last minute, it became clear that the introduction of a single door policy will lead to a change in the methodology for the assessment of disability for people of working age. As a result, it is now known that around 50% of people with disabilities of working age are most likely to start falling by around 14% each month, i.e. by seven euros. So, in fact, there are still issues that have not been finalised, but we have taken a big step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U145	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations, negotiations have been concluded. The proposal of the commission is to put the draft to a final vote of 84. Since the draft requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, we will first do a verification of the presence. 77 members of the Riigikogu are present, 24 is missing. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the amendment of the Labour Capacity Support Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws in connection with it 84. Please take a stand and vote. 61 delegates voted in favour, 16 against and no abstentions. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U146	Today's sixth item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation of the Fisheries Market, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 101. I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation of the Fisheries Market, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 101. Please take a stand and vote. 76 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U147	The seventh item is the third reading of the draft Act 99 amending the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Income Tax Act and the Social Tax Act. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the commission is to put the draft to a final vote on 99. I am voting on the draft law amending the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Income Tax Act and the Social Tax Act 99. Please take a stand and vote. 54 delegates voted in favour, 4 against and 6 abstentions. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U148	The eighth item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the State Budget Act 2015 initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Mr Remo Holsmer, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U149	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you the text of the third reading of the draft law amending this year's budget. The Committee on Finance discussed this draft at its meeting on 17 and 23 November. No amendments were received from the political groups of the Riigikogu, committees or members of the Riigikogu by the deadline of 20 November at 15.00. The Finance Committee, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and other ministries, drafted an amendment consisting of several parts. Explanations are given in the list of amendments that are available to all of you. Linguistic and technical changes have also been incorporated into the text of the third reading. Now for an overview of the changes that the government has proposed. They concern, first, the surplus resulting from the specification of the forecast of rent payments by Riigi Kinnisvara AS, which amounts to a total of 7.7 million euros. It's being transferred to the government reserve. Within the Ministry of Education and Research, funding for higher education education grants and scholarships will be channelled, with a total of EUR 1.9 million, for the acquisition of research library journals and for additional funding for vocational education. The third set of amendments concerns the channelling of resources to ICT, the financing of information system projects and the redeployment of funds. We also propose that two text paragraphs be added, § 13 and § 14, which allow the use lease agreement to be converted into a capital lease agreement in the area of government of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the lease agreement to be concluded under the terms of the financial lease in the area of government of the Ministry of Finance. All these changes are adjustments within the current year, which are a very regular and normal activity at the end of the year. Now, as a reminder, I am talking about the Commission's debate. The first block of amendments has a financial envelope of EUR 33 million, and because of these additional amendments, which I briefly described to you, the amount of the amendments is EUR 10 million. In the state budget of EUR 8,5 billion, the circa has therefore now been redeployed for EUR 40 million and changes in the administration of ministries have been foreseen. The members of the Commission asked about funds allocated to the government reserve. As I pointed out at the beginning, State Penalty AS funds amounting to EUR 7.7 million will be transferred to the government reserve. The possible spending of this money mainly concerns the judgment of the Ministry of Education and Research and private schools. The decision on the extent to which these funds are being used from the reserve is in the hands of the government and is the subject of the future. They asked what was not done at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Social Affairs. This balance of EUR 6 million in co-financing was largely due to the stretching of the second phase of the Rail Baltic preliminary study. In the Ministry of Education and Research's budget for the non-use of higher education grants and scholarships for EUR 1.9 million, I say that payout is needs-based and these applications were just so few that this balance became this way. Now you have a proposal for modulation. One question was about the families of Indian shipguards. The draft that you are currently proposing will provide 14 families with a €1000 allowance and will be paid when these changes enter into force. This is also one of the so-called redeployments, with a total of 14 families and 1000 euros of support. The Commission has taken consensual decisions to put the draft on the agenda today, 25 November, and to propose that the third reading be closed and put to the final vote. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U150	Thank you. You have questions. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U151	Honourable President! Honorable Chairman of the Commission! We had a remarkable discussion at that meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, in my opinion, which perhaps would also deserve the attention of colleagues in this Chamber. We discussed how a member of the Riigikogu could make a reasonable amendment to this draft if he did not know the actual state of the current account. A member of the Riigikogu does not know that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications or the Ministry of Social Affairs will have 3 million unused. A member of the Riigikogu cannot, for example, propose to use it to support farmers in need. I brought the first example to my mind. Do you think it will be possible to find a solution here in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U152	Thank you. That was the right reference. We discussed that the current balance data or the current revenue and expenditure information of the Ministry is up, but it is very likely that no member of the Riigikogu will follow it every day, which is perfectly understandable. The movement of this information can certainly be improved. We have stated that all members of the Riigikogu can request this information from the Ministry. If we ask whether this should also be done proactively by ministries or in the review procedure, for example, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, for quarters or semesters, I believe that we can discuss these proposals again in the Committee on Monetary Affairs in the future. Either way, it's a good point. In order for this information to move better in the future, I believe, there is no obstacle.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U153	Thank you. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There is no wish to negotiate. The Governing Commission's proposal is to carry out a draft of 120... Sorry, amendment, right! One amendment to the draft has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and the proposal of the commission is fully taken into account. The commission's proposal is also to put the draft to a final vote of 120. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Act amending the State Budget Act 2015 initiated by the Government of the Republic 120. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 58), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by two votes to two, with two abstentions. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U154	The ninth item on the agenda is the second reading of the draft law amending the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Kalvi Tõvi, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U155	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, So, bill 97, draft law amending state fees law. The first reading of the draft law took place in this Chamber on 21 October and amendments were tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party and the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The commission, together with the initiator, prepared a series of amendments, which I am now talking about. In the Commission, we discussed amendments at the meeting on 16 November. Let it be said to you that you have also received these amendments from the shelves or from the electronic desktop, that the total number of amendments is 15. Amendments 1, 2, 5 and 15 have been tabled by the lead committee. Proposals 1 and 2 are of a technical nature, and I am not talking about them for long, but I am talking about Amendment 5. The proposal specifies the level of the state fee to be charged for taking the pilot's qualification examination and the pilot's test. The proposal is to set separate rates: EUR 250 per pilot for the adoption of the qualification examination and EUR 130 for the adoption of the simplified qualification examination. The representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications explained at the meeting of the Commission that this is a relatively rare procedure to be followed, such as eight simplified examinations per year. It must be said that Amendment 4 tabled by the Free Party had the same content. So the Commission prepared its amendment, which was the subject of a proposal from the Free Party. It can be said that Amendment 4, tabled by the Free Party, was partly supported. Amendments 3, 6 and 10, 12 and 14 are tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. Of course, the more precise content of all these amendments is included in the list of amendments; I am not going to read everything out, because you can look at it yourself. The representative of the Free Party Group at the meeting of the Commission explained that there were two main motivations for submitting proposals: firstly, it is difficult to accept the cost-based analysis presented by the initiator in shaping the allocation of the overheads component; secondly, the proposed increases are too steep. That is why these proposals have been made, and everyone mostly anticipated an increase in excise duty at a lower rate. The government, I must say, did not support these amendments. Amendment 15 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and specifies the entry into force provisions. Now I am talking about procedural procedures. The Finance Committee decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading by 25 November 2015 and to propose that the second reading be closed. These decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U156	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are questions for you. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U157	I'd be happy to ask you questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U158	Thank you. Good colleague! You spoke about almost all the amendments since No 11. I would like to hear why the Commission did not then support this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U159	I'm sorry! As I said, there was also a proposal from the Estonian Centre Party Group. This dealt with a very important state fee. Indeed, the state fee for matrimonial property is set at EUR 30 according to the draft, but the amendment would amount to EUR 20. The same amendment was also made by the Free Party Group. There was quite a long discussion about this in the Commission. We learned that although all these state fees should be 'cost-based', depending on the cost, there are some exceptions. So it is already EUR 30, which is in the draft, less than the amount calculated on a cost basis. This is the point of discussion, but unfortunately the Commission did not take this amendment into account. So I will not now say how the votes were divided, but Amendment 11, tabled by the Group of the Centre Party, was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U160	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U161	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I'm gonna ask you a specific but common enough question. You have here that if the Public Road Administration sends its person to check the wheel tractor, trailer or something else on the spot, the current state fee was 23 euros, but according to the bill it is 40 euros and the specialist's travel expenses are 9 euros 90 cents all over Estonia. Explain how it can be that EUR 9 with 90 cents can go anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U162	Thank you. It is likely that the amount spent on all specialist trips has been taken here and divided by the number of trips. It would be very difficult for us to impose in case a specialist travels to the centre of Tallinn to see a wheel tractor, one state fee, but if he goes to Nõmme, the other fee. Or if he travels around Võrumaa, that there would be one state fee in Võru parish, but another in Misso parish. That's what we didn't have a discussion about. However, since you have tabled the amendment, I would say that there is no mention here of an official conducting a roadworthiness test going from a county centre to a rural municipality centre to perform a roadworthiness test. In fact, this state fee is meant for such a situation if this mobile machine, the tractor, is not in the register and the owner wants to put it in the register, but with this old tractor, it is very difficult for him to travel to the county centre where these DMVs are usually located to register it. In such a case, the specialist shall arrive and check that the numbers are correct and correspond to the document. That is the content of this proposal. Why is this 9 euros 90 cents here? I really tried to explain it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U163	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U164	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You were talking about costorientation. But let us take, for example, the authority that operates under the Aviation Act. Paragraph 170 states that the hourly rate is EUR 31.74, but under § 171, the hourly rate is calculated at EUR 25.81. The same situation is true for the activities of the Maritime Administration that the labour costs per hour vary. Do officials have different salaries? Any word on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U165	My colleague Andres Ammas did indeed point out how it is calculated, whether rental premises have been taken into account, the maintenance costs of the offices. I must say that the comparison of the salaries of specialists in the Commission did not give rise to much discussion, but it may be expected that an officer going to check an aircraft will probably receive more wages than one who controls some less dangerous vehicle, such as a balloon.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U166	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U167	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I see that there are two paragraphs in the same sub-paragraph for aviation: § 170 (1) and right down § 171 (1). It's the same with watercraft. How are these fees so different in the same area?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U168	Thank you. I said that we did not discuss this in detail, but I will look to the Commission official and ask that we put this question to the Ministry of Finance and send a reply to Mr Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U169	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U170	Honourable President! Honourable representatives of the people! Our pending draft includes a pretty strong increase in state fees and, in the view of the Free Party, too steep. We have drawn attention both to the shortcomings of this law at first reading and to the drafting of amendments. I am really asking colleagues who are deluded to take our proposals into consideration and seriously. I would like to thank the representative of the Commission, Kalvi Tõud, who has already quite precisely formulated the starting points for our amendments. However, I take this opportunity to clarify their point. In itself, the need to modernise the rates of state fees is clear to us, and we do not dispute that. But we are not satisfied with the method of doing this now. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance, since the Minister, have repeatedly stressed that the calculation of the new rates of charges is based on the direct and indirect costs incurred in carrying out the operation. The Ministry of Finance has provided other ministries with a certain matrix to calculate the appropriate fee. It's kind of an accountant, I'd say, also a merchant model, how to achieve the maximum result. The problem is that there is a calculation based on the logic of a merchant operating under monopolistic conditions, how to peel as thick as possible from the client, or the person of the Republic of Estonia. In our view, the Government's desire to take into account so much overheads, management costs, support costs, various office costs, such as communication costs, is not justified in the calculation of the rates. If you read the explanatory memorandum to the draft, it would appear that our ministries and agencies exist only for this purpose, in order to issue permits for which state fees can be charged. If no one bothered these authorities about permits and licenses, there would be no lights in them, no phone rings, no rooms to clean, no bosses would be needed. Absurd! The bill actually shows a clear desire to fill the Treasury. The explanatory memorandum states that it is intended to do so for at least EUR 1 million. At least a million euros! I recall that some fees are being raised more than ten times in the draft. So there's a considerable amount of money coming into the state budget. But in fact, such an increase is, in my opinion, a rather insidious method of fulfilling the state budget. Just as sneaky as lifting a fuel excise, which we discussed here a few moments ago. I would like to repeat what I said at first reading that, if you look at this draft law amending the state fee law from Toompea Hill here, it may seem that these licences, name changes and everything else need to be done quite rarely and, well, what does it matter how much they have to be paid for? But in fact, on the contrary, this rate of charge is important for a particular person or company. In addition, I think there is another important aspect here, perhaps it is even the most important: the Estonian state is not suited to dealing with its own people like a greedy merchant who gets rich with a monopoly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U171	Thank you. There's no more calls. 15 amendments to the draft have been tabled. We will go to the examination of the amendments. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and the proposal of the commission is fully taken into account. The second amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The third amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the proposal of the commission is not taken into account. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the proposal of the commission is partly taken into account. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The sixth amendment is tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U172	President-in-Office, please put this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U173	Thank you. Let us put this amendment... Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U174	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I ask for a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U175	Break five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U176	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the sixth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 16 delegates voted in favour, 50 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The seventh amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U177	Please put this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U178	I shall put to the vote the seventh amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 16 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 49 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The eighth amendment, which has also been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U179	I would also like to ask that this proposal be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U180	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the eighth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 16 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 50 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The ninth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U181	Thank you! I would also like to ask for this motion to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U182	I shall put to the vote the ninth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 16 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 48 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The tenth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U183	I would like to ask for the 10th motion to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U184	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the tenth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 16 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 48 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U185	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U186	I shall put to the vote the 11th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The proposal for amendment has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. 20 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 48 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 12 tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U187	I would also like to ask that the proposal on marriage be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U188	I shall put to the vote the 12th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 20 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 47 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 13 tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U189	Please put motion 13 to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U190	I shall put to the vote the 13th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 19 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 49 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 14 tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U191	Please put to the vote this proposal on the entry into force of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U192	I shall put to the vote the 14th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 19 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 49 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The last amendment, amendment 15, has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined all the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 97. The second reading is closed and the ninth item has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U193	We're going to the tenth item. The second reading of the Foreign Professional Qualifications Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws Act 70 begins. The rapporteur is Krista Aru, member of the Committee on Culture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U194	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good people's representatives! The draft law amending the Foreign Professional Qualifications Act and related other laws was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 18 August 2015. The purpose of the draft is to transpose into Estonian law a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the recognition of professional qualifications. The draft clarifies the process of recognising foreign professional qualifications, from the strengthening of the exchange of information between competent authorities to the introduction of common training frameworks and examination requirements. The Directive introduces a new mechanism to ensure that Member States do not impose unjustified qualification requirements on those wishing to work in professions which restrict access to professions. Another important innovation is the introduction of a new concept of a European Professional Card for easier and faster recognition of qualifications. The first reading of the draft act took place in Riigikogu's plenary session on 30 September and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 17 o'clock on 14 October. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees, but the Ministry of Education and Research tabled two amendments to the draft. The Committee on Culture discussed the draft on 17 November and decided to propose 12 amendments. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture on 17 November, Tiia Raudma, Adviser to the Department of Higher Education of the Ministry of Education and Research, who has been the head of the working group to amend this law, and Kadi Mölder, lawyer of the Legal Department. Both present answered questions from the members of the Committee on Culture. The questions raised by the members of the Committee on Culture concerned in particular the choices made by Estonia's own institution and the recognition of the person to be elected, which in fact did not relate directly to this draft law. The amendments tabled by the Committee on Culture, 12 in total, are largely technical and precise and make this draft law more readable and easier to understand. Perhaps the most important and also fundamental is Amendment 1. I'm trying to explain this very simply. It clarifies the definition of working time and makes such an amendment to the law that it also covers self-employed persons who work or may work part-time and people working under management contracts who, on the basis of the current wording of our labour laws, may not be covered by this definition. Amendment 2, which was also negotiated by the Committee on Culture and agreed by everyone in consensus, including the lawyers of the Ministry of Education and Research, makes clarification once again for the sake of readability of the law. It opens a reference to the European Union legislation, which talks about the Internal Market Information System, so that the person who reads the law can understand what is being said and should not start looking for any reference to the European Union legislation. There is talk here, yes, of the Internal Market Information System. Amendment 3 sets out exactly the reference in the text of the draft law, since this reference was more inclusive than the draft law itself envisaged. Amendment 4 clarifies the scope of the mandate given to the Government of the Republic, as it would have remained somewhat incomprehensible in the current form. Amendments 5 to 10 are technical amendments to the standard which make the text more legally clear but also more readable. A number of legal bases will be added, the text will be harmonised and the same references will be grouped together into a single point. As a result, the numbering of the entire bill will also change. For example, references to sections of the Administrative Procedure Act that are not reproduced in the text are also deleted. All these ten amendments should, in the light of the understanding and uniform interpretation of the Committee on Culture, make this rather complex draft law more readable and more understandable, because, if you look at the substance, the draft law amends 36 other laws. Understanding is very important. The two amendments, Nos 11 and 12, which were tabled by the Ministry of Education and Research in separate letters, result from the fact that the same amendment seeks to introduce into the Youth Work Act the concept of the use of one register or database, which should give the Estonian Youth Work Centre and the institutions and persons applying for the organisation of a youth and project camp under its control the possibility of registering themselves correctly under the law. This is the general part of the Code of Economic Activities, which provides that if youth and project camps do not have a separate register, they should be registered in the General Register of Economic Activities. But the Ministry of Education and Research, as we know, has an education information system, or EHIS, which is structured into a register of such youth and project camps. The registration of these camps should not be included in the register of economic activities, but in the EHIS register, so that they are all grouped together in one place. Amendment 12 concerns the entry into force of this law, when it should take place. It is requested to extend the period of entry into force until 18 January. The law was initially intended to enter into force on 1 January 2016. However, 18 January has been proposed as a result of the fact that the Ministry of Education and Research may not be able to complete all the implementing provisions by 1 January. There is one exception. This concerns vocational training institutions and concerns the partial extension of the transitional period for vocational training institutions. It is extremely important that entry into force takes place on 1 January 2016. So there are two dates of entry into force: 1 January 2016 and 18 January 2016. Most importantly, I would not dare to say that there were differences of opinion, but the vote was due to Amendment 11 in the Commission, which also seeks to correct the implementation of the EHIS database. That is what we discussed in the Commission. We also talked to the representatives of the Ministry of Education and Research that this is not the task of this law, but because the EHIS needs to be implemented in project and youth camps, and it is important that the Ministry of Education and Research has such a database here, the Commission also agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U195	Thank you. You have a question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U196	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! This is a transposition of the Euro Directive. Impressed was that no proposals were made by any political group or MP, although proposals were finally made from the Commission. How will the European Commission look at this if we adjust this directive a little? Is it even 'Euro'?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U197	Thank you, good questioner! I cannot answer how the European Commission looks at it. But this adjustment was certainly relevant to Estonia's own interests. The legal provisions that deal with the same subject are now at the same point, and for the reader, this text of the law is better understood. This was justified and certainly necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U198	Thank you. No further questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? There's no call. We are going to the examination of the amendments. As has already been said, there are 12 amendments. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Culture; the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The second amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Culture; the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The third amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Culture; the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The fourth amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Culture; the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The fifth amendment is tabled by the Committee on Culture, and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Culture, and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Culture, and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Culture, and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Culture, and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The 10th amendment is tabled by the Committee on Culture, and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. Amendment 11 is tabled by the Committee on Culture, and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The 12th amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Culture; the position of the commission is fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. The commission's proposal is to finish the second reading of bill 70. The second reading is closed and the tenth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U199	We're going to the 11th item. The second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications and the Law amending the Law on Electronic Communications and State Fees initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. The rapporteur is Erki Savisaar, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U200	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The Economic Commission last discussed issues related to the Electronic Communications Act at its meeting on 17 November. Basically, there was a debate on black-carry issues. There was talk about how much these issues should be regulated at all. There was no major discussion on other issues. Since this law is intended to postpone the implementation of the universal service, it was decided that this law should definitely enter into force on 1 January 2016. As there is also another draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications in the proceedings, the issues that are more controversial were added to it and will continue to be discussed in the framework of the 130 procedures of the draft law. No amendments were received from the political groups. However, three amendments were tabled in the Commission. First of all, it was found that the retention period for tracking logs was initially five years, as no common position was reached on who should keep these logs. A common position is expected to be reached during the 130 procedures of the draft law. Secondly, technical improvements were made: one was repaired with a compass and the entry into force clause was added to the draft. The Commission adopted a decision to send the draft to the 51nd plenary session by 25 November and proposes that the second reading be closed. When the second reading is completed, we have a proposal to put the draft 51 to the third reading on 9 December. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U201	Thank you, good waitress! Any questions? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. We will begin the examination of the amendments to the draft 51. Three amendments have been received, all from the lead committee and all have been fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading of the draft should be terminated. The second reading of the draft has been completed and the 11th item has also been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U202	Let's move on to item 12. The second reading of the Act on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act on the amendment of other laws 73 begins. Liina Kersna, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu speech chair, please present!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U203	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Health Services Organisation Act and other laws was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 18 August and the first reading took place here on 30 September. In preparation for the second reading, the Committee on Social Affairs discussed this draft at four sessions, which also included the Head of the Health Network of the Health System Development Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Heli Paliste, who presented to the Commission the Ministry's proposals for amending the draft. By the deadline for submitting amendments, 14 October, members of the Riigikogu, committees or political groups did not propose amendments to the draft. On the basis of proposals from the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Committee on Social Affairs finalised three amendments to the draft text. First of all, the Commission proposes to grant the legal person holding an ambulance crew the right to carry patients with a non-operational vehicle or ambulance crew. Health care providers who do not own a means of transport often use an ambulance brigade for transport. According to the Health Board, last year only 1% of all challenges were transport calls. Secondly, the Commission proposes to bring the Health Insurance Act into line with the European Social Security Code, which entered into force as early as 2005. According to the Health Insurance Act, the insured person is entitled to sickness benefit for a total period of not more than 250 calendar days. The European Social Security Code allows the limitation of the period of sickness benefit to 182 days for each case of illness, but does not provide for a maximum number of days per calendar year. According to the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, the impact of the change on the budget of the Health Insurance Fund would not be significant, and the budget for incapacity benefit would have an impact of 0.005%. The third amendment concerns the dates of entry into force. According to the Commission's proposal, the amendment to the Health Insurance Act is planned to enter into force from 1 January 2016 in order to give time to adapt the IT systems of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. It is also necessary to maintain a reasonable transitional period for the entry into force and implementation of the amendment relating to the right to prescribe a family nurse's medicinal product and to the additional professional competence. The Commission proposes to enforce the points governing these issues on 1 March 2016. The commission decided to consensually send the draft to second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 25 November. The Commission proposes to conclude the second reading. When the second reading is closed, the Commission will propose to send a draft to the plenary session of the Riigikogu for the third reading by 9 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U204	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. Let's review the amendments to bill 73. Three amendments have been received, all from the lead committee, the Social Affairs Committee, and everything has been fully taken into account. The amendments have been examined. The position of the commission is that the second reading of the draft should be terminated. The second reading is closed and the 12th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U205	Let's move on to item 13. The second reading of the draft Act 93 on the General Part of the Social Code initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Social Committee of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, please report!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U206	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft law on the general part of the Social Code took place on 28 October and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 11 November. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, committees or political groups on the draft. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the preparation of the second reading at two meetings: 17 and 23 November. Jaanus Põldmaa, Legal Adviser to the Ministry of Social Affairs, participated in the meeting on 17 November. At its meeting on 17 November, the Commission discussed the further examination of the draft and decided to send it to second reading by 25 November and to propose that the second reading of the draft be terminated. At its meeting on 23 November, the draft procedural documents were approved. The draft has made linguistic amendments that are underlined in the text. The Commission's decisions and proposals were as follows: The Social Affairs Committee decided to send the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 25 November and to propose that the second reading be stopped. When the second reading of the draft is closed, the Commission will propose that the draft be sent to the plenary session of the Riigikogu for the third reading by 9 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U207	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. No amendments to draft 93 have been received. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. The second reading is closed and the 13th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U208	Let's move on to item 14. The first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, 'Accepting the State's 2014 Annual Summary Report', begins. Before we begin to deal with it, let me brief you on the procedure. Namely, the first reading is performed on the basis of § 98 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. First of all, the initiator's presentation, which lasts up to 20 minutes, is the presentation of the commission, which also lasts up to 20 minutes, and then questions can be asked to the rapporteur. As we have seen, up to two oral questions can be asked. After that there will be a round of negotiations in which only the representatives of the political groups can speak. I am pleased to ask the Minister of Finance Sven Sester for the Riigikogu's speech chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U209	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will give you an overview of the country's 2014 annual recapitulative statement, the draft of which is number 85. Overall, the country's development last year was positive: economic growth, economic activity remained stable, employment increased, unemployment decreased, price increases stopped and real wage growth accelerated. The country's consolidated annual report is compiled on the basis of the reporting of all public entities. It shall consist of an annual report and financial statements and shall include data on the state, local government, government and public sector as a whole. The activity report provides an overview of the country's most important economic indicators and its internal control systems in 2014. It also includes an overview of the implementation of the action plans submitted by the ministries and the State Chancellery. For the first time, the report contains, as a separate chapter, an overview of the number of government employees, labour costs and average wages. As of 31 December 2014, the State had total assets of EUR 15,4 billion, most of which were fixed assets. Compared to the previous period, the value of the assets increased by EUR 3 billion, mainly due to the revaluation of the value of the state forest. The total liabilities amounted to EUR 6.3 billion and had increased by EUR 0.9 billion compared to the previous period. The bulk of the liabilities amounted to long-term liabilities of EUR 4.7 billion. Last year, revenue from the state budget amounted to EUR 7.9 billion, or 98.2% of what was initially planned. Compared to 2013, revenue was EUR 206.5 million, or 2.7% more. Tax revenue, together with taxes to be passed on, amounted to EUR 6.6 billion, or 100.3% of the budget. Non-tax revenues received EUR 1 billion, or 87,5% of the planned year. Non-tax revenues were below budget expectations, accounting for 81.2% of budget expenditure. The volume of subsidies decreased by 315.3 million euros, i.e. by 30,1%, compared to 2013. The main reason for this decline was the modest collection of external resources from the European Union. In the previous period, 2007 to 2013, the structural grants were in the final phase and the new period, 2014 to 20200, with the introduction of funds, took longer than expected. Expenditure and investment was set at EUR 7,8 billion in 2014, compared to an increase of EUR 196 million in 2013. The country's main focus was on social protection, amounting to EUR 2.6 billion, with an increase of 7.5% over the year. Pensione was paid for EUR 1.5 billion last year, or 5.8% more than in 2013. General government services (EUR 1.4 billion) and health care (EUR 1 billion) were the following: The largest increase, i.e. about 20%, was in national defence. The unused funds of the ministries' governing areas, the State Chancellery and constitutional institutions were transferred to 2015 to an amount of EUR 501.8 million. The share of funds transferred amounted to 6% of the approved budget and was somewhat smaller than in previous years. In 2014, the government budget again reached the nominal surplus, reaching 0.6% of GDP, or 121 million euros, according to preliminary data from Statistics Estonia. The budget deficit was projected to be 0.3% when the 2014 state budget was drawn up. As I said, the total surplus was 0.6%. The surplus was achieved thanks to a better tax revenue than anticipated, in particular with regard to corporate tax and VAT. The National Audit Office's report is included in the summary report for the financial year, which the Auditor General will give a more detailed overview of in the next item on the agenda. In short, according to the control report submitted by the National Audit Office, the state's annual accounts for 2014 are substantially correct and the state's most important economic transactions are carried out in accordance with the State Budget Act. The National Audit Office highlighted some positive changes. The presentation of the report on the implementation of the state budget has been improved, the planning of the revenue and expenditure of public authorities is more accurate, fewer errors are made in the year against the Public Procurement Act. At the same time, the National Audit Office made observations in its report. For example, the National Audit Office recommended improving the presentation of the report on the implementation of the state budget and thereby increasing the transparency of the use of the budget. The National Audit Office also drew attention to the recognition of long-term lease contracts of the state due to conditions that are as damaging as possible to the state. Although the procurement activities of public authorities have improved, the National Audit Office recommended further increasing supervision of procurement activities. When preparing the 2015 summary report, we will complete the implementation report with an explanation and add references to the detailed information. Since 2015, we have implemented our analytical capacity to remove bottlenecks related to lease contracts, and we also advise and train both contracting authorities and tenderers in the field of public procurement. In view of the above, I propose that the Riigikogu approve the State's 2014 financial year summary report and direct the country's unconsolidated cash-flow surplus of EUR 24.7 million to the stabilisation reserve. Honourable Riigikogu! Estonia has promoted its economy on the basis of the principles of conservative fiscal policy and will continue to do so in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U210	Minister, thank you. There's a question for you too. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U211	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Finance! What about these public procurements, will the law on public procurement be reviewed and amended again? What are your estimates of these changes? Will and how forcefully will smart procurement and more and more e-procurement be implemented in the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U212	Thank you for this question. The field of public procurement as such is subordinate to the Minister of Public Administration in the context of ministries. According to my information, the possible amendment of the Public Procurement Act is now absolutely topical; it is up to date. Even I have met with the Council of Rectors, for example, specifically to discuss issues relating to euro grants and public procurement. I know that the same Council has also met the Minister of State Administration, who will be the minister responsible. So the subject is topical and will come to the Riigikogu in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U213	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Finance Committee, Remo Holsmer!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U214	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, You will be faced with the decision to approve the country's summary report for the financial year 2014. The report was already presented by the Minister for Finance; I will then describe the discussions in the Commission. This draft decision was discussed by the Committee on Finance on 29 September. As the initiator's representative, the draft was presented on behalf of the Ministry of Finance by the State's Chief Accountant Juta Maar and the National Audit Office's control report on the state's annual accounts was presented by Auditor General Alar Karis. The purpose of the draft is to enable the Riigikogu to perform the function of controlling the government, to give the government the opportunity to explain its activities during the accounting year and to provide information to the Riigikogu for new budgetary decisions. In its comments, the National Audit Office stated that the country's annual accounts for 2014 are substantially correct, i.e. the report correctly and fairly reflects the state's financial position and the economic results and cash flows of the completed reporting period. The topics that we addressed at that meeting in the Commission were the following: These were references to specific growth indicators and the revenue and forecast of the state's tax revenues. Forecasts have become more accurate year-on-year, as well as cost forecasts. The Commission discussed how to ensure that, at the end of the year, the so-called scraps of government agencies, ministries would not be spent too lightly. The members of the Commission also asked the Board for an opinion on the structural position of the government sector. The Committee on Monetary Affairs had provided information on this. Now about the observations or comments made by the National Audit Office. In short, the Minister has already described them. The National Audit Office has defined the positions that could be improved in budgeting. The first point is to continue to improve the transparency and comprehension of the report on the budget and its implementation. The Riigikogu also has a role to play here, so that the draft state budget law is understandable and understandable and accurately conveys the objectives that the budget wants to achieve and the policies that it wants to change. Secondly, the National Audit Office noted that public authorities should be directed to refrain from long-term lease contracts that are harmful to the state, which is a perfectly understandable and logical observation, to organise the membership of public authorities in non-profit organisations, which is reasonable once again, and to improve supervision of the procurement activities of public authorities and to advise the parties. These were the observations of the National Audit Office. The Minister responded briefly here and we discussed them quite thoroughly in the Commission as well. I have already pointed out that, when it comes to planning and transferable costs, possible unreasonable costs at the end of the year were mentioned when some institutions had a surplus. This was the debate in brief. The Commission unanimously took the following decisions: to put the draft on the agenda by today, 25 November, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 4 December at 16 a.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U215	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft decision 85 should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of 85 amendments on 4 December at 4 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 14th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U216	Let's move on to item 15. This is an overview of the use and preservation of state assets in 2014 and the accuracy of the country's 2014 annual recapitulative statement and the legality of the transactions. The rapporteur is Auditor General Alar Karis. Let me briefly present the procedure for dealing with this item. First of all, the Auditor General Alar Karis is a report that lasts up to 30 minutes. Then the questions are for the waitress. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. Then there are negotiations where only the representatives of the political groups can speak. A member of the Government of the Republic and the Chancellor of Justice shall also have the right to speak in the round of negotiations, subject to authorisation by the President. It is my great honour to ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Auditor General Alar Karis.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U217	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Members of the Riigikogu! Since I was in this very hall with the National Audit Office's previous review of the use and preservation of state assets, it has only been a year. But this year the situation has changed so quickly, both in Estonia and elsewhere in the world, that the economic crisis, the Greek debt and the padric on our eastern border, has retreated from the focus last autumn. Instead, we are talking about tackling the refugee crisis in Europe and combating terrorism, which inevitably creates uncertainty for people. In this context, it is important to provide citizens with the assurance that the Estonian state is in good condition or at least under control. I will therefore begin my review of the use and preservation of state assets in positive matters. I can also confirm this year that the accounts are in order in the country. This means that the transactions have been recorded correctly, they have been carried out largely in compliance with the State Budget and Public Procurement Act and the annual budget adopted by the Riigikogu. It is precisely the fact that the state accounts are in order and transactions are carried out in a regular manner that gives the opportunity to abandon certain reports which played a role in the past but which are no longer needed. I am pleased that the initiative of the National Audit Office to abolish the annual accounts of ministries is in the Riigikogu proceedings and will hopefully be approved shortly. This does not mean that the necessary information will be reduced; this information will be presented in the country's consolidated annual report, as usual. Control isn't going anywhere either. The National Audit Office will continue to carry out its audit report on the state summary report every year. It's been distributed to you, just like in previous years. See, that's the print with the blue cover. However, I still have to admit that even the most accurate accounting entry does not tell us much about whether there was any benefit from the cost made. I cannot be satisfied with a situation where, on the one hand, a complex and costly system of planning and reporting has been developed in the country, but, on the other hand, it produces fragmented and, at best, difficult information about the results of spending money. It should not be so difficult to get an overview of what has actually been achieved. At the meeting of the Monetary Commission at the end of September, where the summary report for the financial year was under discussion, even the experts of the Ministry of Finance were at first left behind when, by the way, a member of the Commission, a former Minister of Finance, asked why one figure had suddenly changed by several hundred million compared to the previous one. The expert therefore also needed further clarification. In today's e-state, planning and reporting arrangements should provide a quick and easy overview of whether the budget money has been used in the appropriate way and whether it has any visible results. At present, this opportunity is lacking or information is extremely cumbersome even for people with special knowledge. At the same time, I am pleased to note that the special committee on the control of the state budget of the Riigikogu has taken this matter seriously. A special report on the transparency of the state budget is under preparation. This could be the first step in which the Riigikogu could regain the role lost from the government to shape the budget and the report on its implementation. Good listeners! I am pleased that, after the annual review, the National Audit Office has been able to support Parliament's work in the last five years alone with almost 170 reports. In these reports, we have shared our observations with the Riigikogu on a very wide range of topics. We have addressed economic risks, problems with corporate governance, the use of natural resources, the organisation of education and social welfare, and others. Several members of the Riigikogu have asked me and my predecessors again and again what the National Audit Office intends to do to implement its recommendations and trigger changes. However, this is actually within the power of Parliament, because it is the Riigikogu that has the opportunity to make the government feel responsible for the choices and decisions made. That's why I had a little strange recently to read about a member of the Riigikogu in social media about the crash and state aid of Estonian Air, where he asked: "Where was the Ministry? Where was parliamentary supervision? ' The question is, of course, correct in itself. I also recall from the previous reviews made to the Riigikogu that for years the Riigikogu has given the government a green light in the budget to place hundreds of millions in the state's companies without the Riigikogu knowing in advance who and for what reason this money is allocated to. These hundreds of millions are listed in the state budget, but there is no information in the explanatory memorandum about who and why. Only the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has a series of Financial Transactions. Under this sign, for example, 150 million euros went to Eesti Energia in 2012. In this year's budget, the Riigikogu once again gave the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications EUR 87.7 million under the name of financing transactions. On the other hand, Members of Parliament learned exactly from the budget explanatory memorandum that the best graduates of the Academy of Home Affairs are planning to receive EUR 1700 as a scholarship to Kaarel Eenpalu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The National Audit Office's review is once again aware of the tending fact that the Estonian economy is very small and vulnerable in the context of dreams. We only have nearly 640000 employees and workers who run around 60000 companies, 500 of which produce the majority of our exports, and 100 companies spend almost all of their R &amp; D expenditure. A transaction of just a few hundred million euros significantly disrupts economic statistics and may overheat one or more economic sectors. Security issues have recently drawn attention away from our economic situation and perspectives. It's kind of inevitable. However, it is time to recall this again, because the power of the economy seems to be slowing down and the pace of movement among our welfare countries is staggering. Although, in external circumstances, growth in the economy, employment and real wages, and with concessions, also appear to be an improvement in export performance as a peaceful development, this should not be satisfied. This satisfaction is reflected in reconciliation with incomplete or delayed solutions. So we can get not a bright new Nordic, but a whirlwind-peaceful periphery. It is a fact that simple solutions to develop and strengthen the Estonian economy are almost exhausted by the government and now only complex and very complex solutions are on the table. However, their implementation requires effort and substantial work. A number of necessary solutions may not be adopted by the wider public or by narrow stakeholders, but by vocal and highly lobbyist stakeholders with unanimous support. As a result, these solutions can easily be pushed to tomorrow by reference to good economic performances. Humanly, it is understandable to go down the easy way of resistance, but this is not the way forward and will not solve our problems. Last year, I spoke at length about education, because it is in this area that most of the solutions are there to make Estonia's future better. That's what the government thinks. Unfortunately, in the area of education, I still see complex problems, as well as a series of incomplete solutions, whether for example avoiding the fundamental restructuring of educational funding models or continuing confusion about the development of the school network, rather than dealing with individual issues. Half-solutions are clearly a postponement of the future that Estonia cannot afford. In action, however, the government's hands are quite financially involved. On the one hand, a large part of the spending of public money has already been earmarked in advance. Social protection, health care, general government services such as human resources, external aid, interest on loans and similar expenditure, and the economy and education take most of the budget now and certainly also in the next few decades. Although these areas alone consume almost half of the state budget, we have no reason to talk about large pensions or very good access to medical care. On the other hand, we are in a situation where the government's ability to make important reforms depends to a large extent on the European Union's funding and the political choices involved in membership of the European Union. They are in a fundamental shift in time with the present and current problems of the Estonian state. Take the example of supporting entrepreneurship with EUR 140 million in the area of smart specialisation. This allocation of support is based on data from the beginning of this decade and on the 2013 vision, although it would already need to be corrected. However, this is not allowed by the rigidity of EU rules and the difficulty of amending the agreed documents governing the use of funds. The first year of the new funding period of the European Union, 2014 in Estonia, passed without any euro being paid out. This means that, in essence, we are still spending on the last period and we are implementing a policy from 2007 or even earlier years. At the same time, new measures and their regulations are ready, calls for proposals are opening. At the same time, impact assessments of measures in the previous period are also coming, which, at least in terms of impact, are not very positive. But there is no time to learn and adapt, because the tracks are down and the train is moving into the future that the government anticipated in its plans mostly three or four years ago. However, the year 2016 is about to begin. If four years ago the day was foreseen right, then it's fine. If not, however, a number of officials and beneficiaries have already been designated to deal with the current problems only with partial performance. A significant part of their time takes to reconcile Estonia's reality with what is written in the European Union's programmes and measures. But there's nothing you can do about it. If you don't have your own money, there are foreign rules when you use a stranger, and if you don't have the ability to change these rules, there's no other way to follow them. Dear listeners, We are currently in a situation where the employment rate is high in Estonia and the rate of wage growth exceeds productivity growth. At the same time, the prospect is that in a few decades the working hands will be reduced by nearly 70,000. There are many questions in this situation. Who are we going to replace the missing workforce with? To what extent do we replace? What kind of jobs do we replace? Traditionally, there has been a lot of talk about the reduction in labour force, but in parallel, productivity should be considered very seriously. We will become richer if we can create greater added value. As productivity improves, some jobs disappear, but as we know, many people will also disappear from the labour market in the near future. The right relationship should now be found between productivity growth and the promotion of employment. Perhaps it would make sense not to attempt to completely replace all those people leaving the labour market in the next decade, but to work more productively, to do something different, to change the nature of the work. Speaking of staff, I would point out that we also have untapped potential in the reserve. For example, 34000 young people aged 15 to 29 who could be termed "Ulanor" because they do not study or work, but could do so. These young people are about as young as the labour market in Estonia will lose its hands over the next 10 to 15 years, according to the most optimistic forecast. However, the use of such a labour reserve is not an easy task for the government. I do not want to contradict Estonia and the European Union in any way, but given the strong dependence of labour and labour market projects on euro money, I do see certain opposing emphasis. While in Estonia's perspective it may be most important to increase productivity, the European Union's view is rather much higher employment. Several European Union support for entrepreneurship and regional competitiveness is intended to create new jobs. For example, EUR 135 million will be provided to boost regional competitiveness, and this money should create a total of 1 700 new jobs in the circuit by 2020. Given only job creation, the cost is therefore close to EUR 80000 per job created. Yes, this money also goes to a number of other local things, but they also have to create or support jobs in the region in one way or another, because the perpetuation of the programme is that only jobs improve competitiveness. At the same time, Ida-Virumaa Industrial Area Development SA has promised to create at least half more jobs with just EUR 700000 at the same time. When it comes to the work capacity reform that has just been discussed here, it is not possible to calculate the cost of one job created at the moment. Maybe the numbers would show something we'd rather not know. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! As I have stated, recent government initiatives on labour capacity reform, tax refunds and also on social tax reductions have been designed to maintain and increase employment, not so much to increase productivity or accelerate development. In social terms, although such an emphasis on the government is undoubtedly a noble goal, it has only a limited impact on speeding up our development. Structural problems remain in the shadow of Estonia's good employment performance. The unemployed and the jobs are located in different regions, and the skills and knowledge of workers do not correspond to what is required at the workplace. These problems and the government's ability to solve them are discussed by the other side of this year's overview of the National Audit Office. The National Audit Office analysed how the government has acted to address structural labour market problems. Speaking of solutions, I must again point out the problem mentioned in my speech last year that every ministry sees the world centrally and only within its own sphere of government. This is demonstrated by the analysis of structural labour market problems in the current review as well as other audits by the National Audit Office. One example comes from the discussion of the overview of the migration policy of the National Audit Office, where four ministers explained enthusiastically before the Special Committee on the control of the state budget of the Riigikogu, how everything that is within their competence has been done. However, they acknowledged the existence of general problems. For example, we do not have the wise and good people we hope for. The National Audit Office increasingly sees situations like this. Everyone does their piece by looking at their own shit, but the result still doesn't appear, even though everyone's been working honestly. So 2 plus 2 isn't going to be 4, it's going to be 3, but it's going to be 5. Making the government as a whole operational and guided by results is undoubtedly in the power of its leader. I hope that the proposed state reform will contribute to this. But reforms in the country should be based on functions and content. I'll give you a fresh example. The government, of course, wants to keep the proportion of the working-age population and the public sector at least at the current level. In itself, the goal is right. In September of this year, the heads of staff of state agencies received a guideline from the Ministry of Finance that the number of employees in the general government sector should be reduced by around 0.7% per year, with a total of 3,500 employees in the circa. For a year, it is 700-750 people. There was also a table showing how many people have to be laid off. The problem, however, is that these figures are not the result of an analysis of tasks, but only a mathematical calculation based on the changes in the number of employees that have been made in the past between 2010 and 2015. I think it's the wrong thing to do. First of all, the tasks of the state and those in its service should be reviewed on the basis of the content: what to do differently, what not to do at all. Then we should look at how many people are needed to carry out these tasks. It is only then that it becomes clear where people are over, but, by the way, also where people are missing and where more people should be taken in order for the tasks to be fulfilled. It is also criminal that, a few weeks later, in October, a letter from the Ministry of Social Affairs, entitled 'The number of people with reduced working capacity required to recruit', was sent to the public authorities. It has been compiled on the basis of the data contained in the balance notes information system of the Ministry of Finance, i.e. in a purely computational manner, without any meaningful analysis. Again, there was a table showing how many people would have to be employed by ministries and other institutions so that they could have a full quota of 1,000 new workers. Two opposing campaigns have therefore been launched, the implementation of which in real life may not fulfil the objectives of either campaign or campaign, because they have not been analysed or thought through in their entirety. All of this makes me say a few words about common sense. It is undoubtedly very welcome that the government has begun to ask itself whether, for example, hasty restructuring, the whole pile of legislation, strategies, development plans and reports that are being created every day are really necessary for us. As I walk around and communicate with people in the national system, I hear more and more that time and energy go to all kinds of substitute activities. The paper is produced and only after that will the real work and real life begin. As we continue in this way, we will soon be in a situation where we will lose our ability to do something just as usual, because we need all kinds of strategies, indicators and levels of achievement for crutches. Let me give you an example. As we know, our embassy building in Moscow has been in need of repairs for a long time. Some of its technical systems date back to 1903. The government has approved the renovation of the embassy, added it to the investment schedule, a lot of money spent on design. It's like everything's progressing. Unfortunately, this autumn the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had to go through another cadet created by the Ministry of Finance after asking for repair money and despite the government's principled support. The officials of the Ministry found (referendum) that the information provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the form of the investment request does not allow an analysis of the investment, in this case the need for the repair of the Moscow embassy building, to be carried out on a sectoral basis, or to form a view as to whether the investment is essential for achieving the strategic objectives of the field. The officials wanted information to be provided on how the real estate investment is linked to the general objective of one of the performance areas, i.e. the general objective of the development plan for the sector approved by the government, possibly also to the sub-target and the corresponding metrics. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs was also asked to provide information on the long-term importance of the location of the Moscow embassy in a specific location in the 20.30 period, according to the objective and outlook of the performance area and the long-term need for action of the organisation operating there. In addition, there was a need for information on what the improvement in the availability of public services through renovation is regionally and by target groups and how this real estate affects the objectives of some other performance areas. [[The excitement in the hall.]] The Ministry of Foreign Affairs came patiently to explain and justify everything to the Ministry of Finance. The reply of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on a total of seven pages, apart from the renovation of the priority Moscow embassy building, also covers requests for the restoration of the buildings of Washington, Warsaw and The Hague embassy and the Ministry building here, for which the Ministry of Finance requested similar information from everyone. In a letter, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs patiently explained, apart from describing the technical details of the state of the buildings, that embassies are an integral part of the state's foreign policy, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is engaged in foreign policy, that the foreign policy development plan does not exist, that the ministry has a development plan, that the Ministry of Finance has listed the minimum objectives of democracy, human rights, the rule of law, economic freedoms and economic development, etc. Even now, after all this has been explained, it is still not certain that the embassy will receive the money needed to renovate. This story may illustrate the need to begin with a review of what we are doing in one case or another and whether it is really needed. Of course, this does not mean that planning and justification should be lost, but it should be reasonable. In this case, at least three officials of the Ministry of Finance dealt with the issue. But it's not their number that matters. The government may reduce the number of employees using a percentage calculation method, but in this case it would be of no use. The remaining workers would get an even greater burden and things would move even more slowly if the content of the work did not change. This would make sense, first of all, to look at the content of the work being done and to be based on the need for content rather than simply a calculation-based understanding that does not solve the real problems. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It's high time to get out of this substitutive sex where we tend to sink deeper and deeper. Good sense should be maintained. The problems presented in this review of the National Audit Office are largely solved not by developing yet another strategy and fancy-named documents, but simply through the association and agreement of the parties involved. If it is necessary to write down the agreement briefly and call it a plan, then it is my pleasure. It is important to acknowledge that not paper or plan changes real life, but works, work, and cooperation. This time the National Audit Office will contribute to solving labour market problems with its proposals, based on the principle of interoperability of the state. The National Audit Office is pleased to continue to assist and advise both the government and the parliament in promoting the Estonian state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U218	Dear Auditor General, thank you very much. You have a lot of questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U219	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, first of all, thank you for this very good report, as well as for the overview you have presented to us in writing. My attention is given to the 75th point, which speaks of a decrease in the number of hands. To be honest, we also paid attention to this in the context of the state budget, because we found the economic forecasts somewhat optimistic in the light of the decrease in the number of working days. There are two sides to my question. You referred to youth employment and productivity as key to success. Are there any more keys? Do we also need to talk in the near future about the increase in retirement age, more flexible wage accounting, such as hourly wage accounting? The second half of the question is the public sector. Has anything been done about this problem analysis or who and how should it be done so that we do not cut again mathematically like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U220	Good questioner! I'm sure it's done. From the point of view of the National Audit Office, it cannot be said that nothing has been done. Many of the things we have referred to here are in the process. From the point of view of the need for information on what kind of workforce we need and where these hands can now be located. As far as point 75 is concerned, it is a fact. This fact has been known for a long time. I also referred in my speech to the fact that replacing people alone is not enough. There is a need to do something different, although there is a clear pressure on the one hand to bring and replace people. But history has shown that we have not been very capable of bringing people from elsewhere in Estonia. The people who came here have mostly been the ones who either join the family or come here to study. Even many learners do not stay here to work, and if they do, they are educated here and actually fill the same jobs as those who are here. There's a lot of problems here. If you ask me what else could be done, I also referred to educational issues. If we want to do differently and be innovative, we must remember that there is enough academic literature that says that the higher the level of education in the country, the greater the innovative capacity of the country. I have some outdated data, but in 2012, for example, the level of education of our business leaders was such that more than half of them were either in primary education or in vocational education based on basic education. I think there is room for improvement here if we do not want to continue in the same way, but want to do something differently.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U221	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U222	Thank you, Mr President. Reverend Auditor General, I would like to thank you for your time. The National Audit Office's review and your presentation sounded a concern about the low productivity of our business and regional imbalances. In the review, you mentioned the works of the Estonian Development Fund. However, this fund is currently under threat of substantial liquidation. Should the development fund not be one of the important engines of economic growth in Estonia if it is properly managed and directed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U223	Good questioner! This is a difficult issue for me, because I have been a member of the Council of the Development Fund since its beginning and for a very short time, a year, also at the head of the Council. But when I come to the question, I think it is essential. In my opinion, our problem is that we do not have any think tanks that think about the future of our country every day. We have many institutions, but the Development Fund was essentially designed to monitor development and look to the future. As for losing him or not losing him, I find it difficult to make an assessment. When I start looking at my work plans, one way is by means of an audit to evaluate the work and financial activities of the Development Fund. But I come back to the question: we do not have a house that would give independent advice to the government, for my sake also to the parliament and to the state of Estonia as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U224	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U225	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Auditor General! It is good audit practice that the other party is also heard. You have done a very grateful job, especially with regard to the development of the labour market, which is of critical importance to the economy. I understand that you have received input from the ministries and listened to their views, but many areas, including the labour market, are interministerial. Tackling these problems requires cooperation between ministries, interministerial activities. How much input did you receive from the State Chancellery and did you ask for an opinion on this audit from there?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U226	Good questioner! I will begin by saying that this is not an audit, but an overview, i.e. here are other elements. This review itself has been sent to all ministries. Last year, the State Chancellery was interested in this, we sent it to them as well. This year the State Chancellery was interested two days ago and then we gave them this overview. But the nature of the question is absolutely correct. I also referred to the fact that there are many things that are interministerial. I was referring to the fact that the Head of Government should take the initiative, not just to chair the meeting, but to matters that fall between the two chairs, he should clearly decide who should deal with it and how to deal with it. Here is a good example: the Prime Minister announced today that the reform of the administration is an important issue for him, there is also a minister who has been put on this job. So I think things are moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U227	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U228	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear Auditor General! The review mentions that it is possible to apply for assistance from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) for retraining and finding work for people who have lost their jobs due to changes in the structure of the world economy. I will look at the list of applications submitted by the different Member States from 2007 until now. Unfortunately, Estonia is not here. Thinking about the recent situation, both the mass redundancies in Nitroferd in Ida-Virumaa and Estonian Air, do you not think that our government has not done enough work to get and use as much foreign money as possible instead of using the reserves of the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund at all times, which is not rubber?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U229	Good questioner! Our unemployment fund reserves are quite large. I will put my answer to the question: is the budget balance more important than, for example, the fact that a certain amount of money could be taken away from the unemployment fund in order to organise training, perhaps much more expensive than regular training, more regionally-specific? The answer to the question of whether there should be more money from the European Union is that there must be more money. But it's always a question of our ability to take advantage of this money here on the ground. History has shown that problems are precisely there, not in the amount of money, but in the ability to take advantage of it at the right time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U230	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U231	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Karis, for this meaningful and forward-looking overview. It was serious, thought-provoking and at the same time argued. My question concerns your claim on education. I agree with one hundred percent that education is the key to Estonia's success. Your second argument is that the government thinks so too, but I don't quite agree. If you look at next year's budget, the Ministry of Education and Research will only have a reduction of 2.9%. What is the basis for your assessment that the government thinks so, and will do everything in the future for the advancement of science?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U232	Good questioner! I think that's what the government thinks, but that's the part of your question whether it's doing that. That's not what I mentioned in my speech, whether or not he's doing this. Only yesterday came up with an OECD report which clearly states that we have relatively low educational costs. The fact that teachers' wages rose faster than in all OECD countries at some point in time is, in itself, very good, but unfortunately, this is still relatively low. Today we have a former Minister of Finance as Minister for Education and Science, and I also see in the government how difficult it is for the former Minister of Finance to stand up for his rights and applications. Krista Aru, there's little money in education.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U233	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U234	Thank you, manager. Dear Auditor General, The National Audit Office is doing a very good job and the next year, the more it will do, but unfortunately no one will react to it. Let me give you just a few examples. Estonian Air's 87 million were put in place in such a way that no one even knew why it was put in place. In essence, the scheme that the money went into last time was repeated. As far as I know, the National Audit Office will audit this use of funds. I remember that the National Audit Office carried out a pretty thorough audit of Auvere that this allocation of funds is not correct. Today we have read that a station that is not yet ready has cost around EUR 640 million and that 300 million are already being written off. When will the National Audit Office bring clarity to the house in the Utah project when 51 million euros were taken into the American desert and I hear that every year at least one million euros will tick off? When's it gonna clear up?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U235	Honourable questioner! I'll start at the end of the question. When it clears up, I can't tell you that. But the Riigikogu has expressed its wish and the National Audit Office has begun the audit. This audit, which assesses the Utah and Jordan projects, will certainly be completed in the first half of next year. I do not agree that we are expressing an opinion, but, as it has been written somewhere, the National Audit Office is simply being ridiculed. I wouldn't want to agree with that in any way. Then try to ridicule me! But the National Audit Office has not only carried out audits and reports, but it works every day with both ministry officials and the government office to prevent as many negative things as possible. In many cases, both the government and other institutions have taken this into account. The Public Procurement Act was mentioned here today. Very many of our proposals have been included in this bill. So I'd be happy to disagree. Our job, as I mentioned in my speech, is to highlight problems. If we were to offer solutions to all things, I think we could be called the government of the Republic of Estonia or at least a shadow government. Our job is to highlight the problems. I believe that it is the task of the Riigikogu to ask the government why these things are exactly as they are, or why the situation is not better.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U236	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U237	Good manager! Dear Auditor General, once again congratulations on the excellent reading material! You refer to the OECD's so-called forecasts that in the next 15 years we will only rise five places, to 24. Consequently, Andrus Ansip's promise to take us to the five richest countries was a total bluff. But my question is: how can state reform help local authorities to develop regional entrepreneurship? Open up some of this, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U238	This is our proposal, where we point out that if such a reform is carried out, these problems will also be taken into account so that it can be done at all. We can see that there are very clear regional differences in Estonia. The unemployed are in one place, for example, the same Kohtla-Järve area and Ida-Virumaa as a whole, but the jobs are elsewhere. So we have a problem in three places: Tallinn, Tartu and Ida-Virumaa. In Tallinn and Tartu, it is because there is no working hand, and in Ida-Virumaa because there are no jobs there. I think that it is certainly possible in the course of the state reform that I am not talking about administrative reform; this is about state reform as a whole; it is about reviewing these matters. It is the point of our proposal that these matters should be taken into account in the implementation of the reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U239	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U240	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Auditor General, Really, your report was very good. But you have also just talked about how much of our young people really don't work or learn. Do you agree with me that the huge shortage is that our young people do not have work habits? Our generation earned pocket money in its time, as well as clothes on when working in a factory or in a field and elsewhere. Today, we have to admit that it is quite difficult for our entrepreneurs to employ young people, to implement them in their activities and activities. Do you see any way to change the laws so that we can put young people to work early? Our own experience, when we wanted to make work camps, was that many felt it would be better if young people were in play or models.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U241	Good questioner! It's hard for me to answer that question. I guess they put me to work when I was a kid. The question is whether I wanted it or not, but I had work to do. How to promote it by law is very difficult for me to answer. But the laws should certainly encourage even so that, for example, companies can go to internships and also be an apprentice. This is not only about upper secondary schools and vocational schools, but certainly also about higher education. The gap between entrepreneurship and universities is deepening rather than decreasing. I believe that the first steps have already been taken by the government here, particularly with regard to the establishment of apprenticeship bases for businesses. So I dare be optimistic.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U242	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U243	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Auditor General, You have given an example of how the high-level pilotage of bureaucratic thinking was used to justify the need to repair the Moscow embassy building. There was news in the media today that a multi-page regulation has been drawn up in the European Union on what a candle is. You stated that such phenomena were caused by a lack of common sense. You're a person with a strong academic background. Who and where should teach the use of common sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U244	Thank you for your question. Today, this discussion is getting very philosophical. I think all people have common sense. Let's look at the same example I gave you. It's not like the State Department officials didn't write a seven-page answer. A certain amount of energy came up with explaining how stupid and stupid it is inside and outside your house. But in the end, they wrote that answer. I'm not calling for a mutiny, but I imagine that if you can still see stupidity, let's not write that answer or write a short answer, not a seven-page one. Bureaucracy is producing more and more bureaucracy. There's a need for common sense. The fear that the embassy building will not be repaired because of the fact that these silly ones, if I can say so directly, are left unanswered, is, in my opinion, not justified. Common sense starts where you feel it's my place to get involved and say stop. I will say once again that this paper was signed by three officials. Now, if we let go of the two of us in the course of the reform that we are planning, then this one is still making letters like this and not doing what he might have to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U245	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U246	Thank you, manager. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this review. I really feel the spine is in place, this report, this summary was very good. The cross-cutting topics were competitiveness, productivity, more competent managers, specialisation in both the private and public sectors. It is all very important for our economy to grow and for people to get a better income. However, infrastructure also plays a crucial role. We've been talking a lot about broadband lately. I ask you, as a member of the Council of the Development Fund, whether you believe that moving broadband to another level, to the level of the Development Fund, to discuss how fast internet could still reach the end user, could be conceivable and could it provide Estonia with a result as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U247	Thank you for your question. I cannot tell you whether taking us anywhere will change anything, because basically it has been decided that the whole of Estonia should be covered with broadband. Technology is developing so quickly, and the decisions that were made in the past, which and when the thick wires are being transported, certainly need to be reviewed. Maybe it's possible to change it, but it's gonna be 5G. But I also said today in the Commission that if the plan is to cover the whole of Estonia's high-speed Internet, it would be wise to start where we can see that there are problems: people are leaving because they do not have a fast internet or because they do not have enough coarse electrical wires to develop entrepreneurship. This preference should not be a problem for the government, because the aim is to cover the whole of Estonia. We're just gonna start there or, actually, we're gonna finish where we can see that the problem is the biggest.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U248	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U249	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress, thank you very, very much for a great, meaningful and factual presentation! But is your audit a sufficient argument, for example, for initiating a case where the issue is the non-assigned or misuse of public funds?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U250	Good questioner! Today's law says that if the National Audit Office sees or suspects that the laws of the Republic of Estonia have been violated, it must make a motion to the prosecutor's office or to the police. The National Audit Office has always done so when it has noticed something criminal during its audits.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U251	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U252	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, It emerges from your report and you propose that the government should focus particular attention on the structural problems of the labour market alongside overall employment and economic growth and contribute more to labour productivity growth in order to accelerate growth. Among other things, the product is that we have very serious concerns with a large number of people who are not active. At the end of your review, you will also give suggestions on what can be done. The first recommendation states that policy synergies should be improved. That's very sympathetic to me. Ministries are like different tsar states that don't cooperate with each other. In addition, cooperation shall not take place horizontally or vertically. Perhaps you will give another suggestion on what to do to improve cooperation between ministries and also between the state and local authorities in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U253	Good questioner! Why did I point that out in my speech? This is where the Prime Minister has a very important role to play, who should take this decision. I know very well that the Prime Ministers, whether present or past, are not involved in the administration of ministries. But today we are still living in a world where there are so many exactly the things you referred to. In other words, if the Prime Minister cannot do so without amending the law, then perhaps he should be given this role to carry out this task. All horizontal things are still the prime minister's responsibility. But the law is known to be made by the Riigikogu. It's just an opportunity I've been offered on the move.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U254	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U255	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Auditor General, thank you very much for your review. I would also like to thank you for the suggestions, suggestions and attention you received in 2014, when I worked at the Ministry of Social Affairs. Believe me, in 2015 a number of them were also included in the action plan. But now my question. I agree that there is a great deal of bureaucracy, a lot of it in Estonia, but even more probably in the European Union. Sometimes it seems to me that we often take over more bureaucracy than Brussels or the European Union demands of us. Can I feel right and do you feel that way? I will give you an example of the money from the European Union for investment in special care. We ourselves write down the numbers there, although Brussels does not require it. It is not a number that should be looked at, but that services should be accessible to people.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U256	Thank you, good questioner! Since it was a matter of feeling, I'm gonna say, yes, it seems to me that sometimes we're overreacting a little. This is not just Estonia's concern; the whole of Europe has put this bureaucracy on the agenda. Although, at the same time, as one of the pre-questioners said, instead of the question of banana curvature, this is now the question of what a candle is. So the signs aren't exactly like something's changing really fast. But it seems to me exactly as you said, Mrs. Helmen Hunter.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U257	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U258	Thank you, Mr President. Good Auditor General! I'm gonna take one of the last questioners and follow your word. You said that the National Audit Office will certainly inform or request criminal proceedings if possible abuse has been detected. However, my question is rather that if the Public Prosecutor's Office rejects this application, as has been the case in your practice, and you do not have the opportunity, for example, to appeal this decision to the administrative court, because you have not suffered any specific damage and you have not been able to accept the damage, for example, the same state company, that matter will not be dealt with. Do you think you could have the right to appeal the decisions of the Public Prosecutor's Office?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U259	Thank you for your question. European practice is very different. In countries such as Spain, Portugal and Belgium, the National Audit Office is also granted the right to impose and punish fines. I have already answered that question once in this Chamber. I would not initiate a law to give the National Audit Office such a right. We still live in a country where these things can be resolved differently. Rather, I am of the opinion that we do not need a right or an obligation to appeal. This role should be played by someone else. Our task is to see or recognise whether or not the elements of the crime exist, and it is our duty to provide this information, not to keep it to ourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U260	Dear Auditor General, there is at least one more question for you. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U261	Thank you, Mr President. Good Auditor General! Indeed, there has been a debate today on a number of issues. You already touched on the subject of education. If you don't mind, I'll come back to this one more time. We are all trying to look positively at next year's budget and see the prospects for development, but we can see that the implementation of the education budget is being carried out by means of redeployment. You are following the field of education quite closely already because you have been closely involved. Do you think that there should be some serious changes in the state budget in order to have a higher budget for education, or will structural changes also help?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U262	Good questioner! I'm going to answer in a very general way. That's just my personal opinion. I think that if the state places priority on itself and that is, for example, education or, as we have, national defence, then the money should first be allocated for it and then the rest of the money should be distributed. Not that we have a priority, but for that, we need to find money in the Ministry's internal reserves. The second solution is that we really open this base and see what's inside the base, and then we move on, not that we have a base down there, and then we grow something on it. These are two ways of resolving this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U263	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U264	Thank you. Dear Auditor General, I, too, thank you for a very thorough report. You answered one of the above questions that there is no need to increase the competence and rights of the National Audit Office, that these rights are sufficient in themselves. Let me ask you this: how do you appreciate your cooperation with the Special Committee on State Budget Control of the Riigikogu. Has it been good and enough? Do you not think that this Riigikogu committee could have greater rights and competences to be more effective and effective? After all, we have a European Union Affairs Commission with a very high level of competence in European policy-making. Do you think that this special committee could have more competence and more capacity than it is now?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U265	Honourable questioner! I have visited both the previous Chairman of the Riigikogu and the present one to discuss this issue in the same way as to make this special committee a permanent commission. Certainly, the special committee itself has also taken certain steps, at least trying to take action, since it has tried to report to bring problems to the big hall. I myself have come up with a proposal so that we can read to each new Riigikogu the problems that have remained unresolved in the Estonian country or which we think are important. So there are options. Coming back to the Special Commission, the answer is yes. I think that the Commission could discuss matters in such a way that the Commission meeting would not end with the sentence that the information was taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U266	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U267	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good speaker! The question is simple. What are the needs of the National Audit Office so that you can do your job as well or even better than you have done so far? I am thinking of financial needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U268	Good questioner! I have spoken about our needs both in the Riigikogu committees and in this large Chamber. One need is certainly to improve the capacity of the same defence sector and internal security audit, for which we have also received support from the special committee that has already been mentioned. The amounts themselves are not large. However, it is clear that we will not fail to do so, regardless of whether the Riigikogu decides to allocate these amounts to us or not. However, the problem I referred to last time is that our audit will then simply become specific in the search for errors and we cannot give an overview of the whole situation, for example, in the defence forces or internal security. This may give rise to a feeling of uncertainty if we only see shortcomings, but cannot give a holistic picture of the area. The price of this, as we have calculated for the last three years, is 250,000 European money.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U269	Dear Auditor General, I thank you for your report and your answers. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Andres Ammas, representative of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U270	Honourable President! Honorable Auditor General! Honourable colleagues! The Auditor General goes to the Riigikogu to summarise the problems of the Estonian state once a year. Last year, Alar Karis got here at the remote control at midnight, because the people's attention was focused on the Employment Capacity Allowance Act. This year he did much better, as you saw. But inevitably, this presentation is once again a bit of a shadow of other topical issues. I don't suspect anyone's evil hand in planning the agenda, but there's a certain sign of this situation. The review of Alar Karis was really very good, and the document we are dealing with is very good. I think it's worthwhile for all of us to read it from the line, get into it and make sense of it. I very much hope that the same work will be done in our words by such an analytical government. After all, the most common word in the government treaty is 'analyze'. But the recommendations of the National Audit Office at the end of the review deserve not only analysis but also implementation, so self-evident and well-informed are these proposals. The National Audit Office has a duty to be a wise man in his pocket, but he must not be forgotten in that pocket, otherwise he will not be of greater use. They say the wise one learns from the mistakes of others, the fool learns from his own. An active government could learn from the mistakes of previous governments. If the comments of the National Audit Office had been taken into account in helping Estonian Air, a great deal of our common money would have been saved. But somehow we're still acting like Kalevipoeg, who smashed a lot of tables before he realized he had to hit the serve. It was very nice to hear from my colleague, Helmen Kütt, that the Ministry of Social Affairs, led by him, really took into account the proposals made by the National Audit Office. But I'm afraid these ministries are outnumbered. As far as I know, the recommendations of the National Audit Office have too often been annoying for our rulers rather than the starting point for important political decisions. As a member of the audit committee I have already discussed, I have worked through a dozen audits of the National Audit Office and experienced that when the National Audit Office makes minor recommendations, ministers, Chancellors and other officials mostly agree with them quickly and eagerly. However, when it comes to more serious problems, they are either passed in silence or answered in a general way. Unfortunately, our current government is not very discussional at all, rather afraid of discussion like an old-fashioned lightning. There's no need to be afraid! Finally. The National Audit Office of Estonia has commissioned a college assessment organised by the supreme audit institutions of the Netherlands, Poland and Sweden to evaluate its own work. The main message of this complex document, which is quite well and easily read, is that the Estonian National Audit Office is honoured and highly valued in the Estonian government administration. But the very important point is that one of the objectives of the National Audit Office in the future is and must be to increase influence. On behalf of the Free Party Group, I thank once again the Auditor General and his team. Indeed, I wish you a great deal of strength to gain greater influence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U271	Thank you. I ask Aivar Sõerdi, representative of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, to the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U272	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Auditor General! Ladies and gentlemen, It is certainly extremely gratifying that the National Audit Office has largely focused on the situation and problems of the labour market in its review this year. It is certain that one of the key issues of economic development is the functioning of the labour market and productivity. Technological developments and productivity gains are fundamental to economic growth, but also to a functioning labour market and the availability of a skilled workforce. Indeed, in recent years Estonia's economic growth has largely come through increased employment, and now the employment force is shrinking as a source of economic growth. We have reached a rather high level in terms of productivity compared to the European Union average of 72%, but growth has slowed down in recent years. However, we cannot ignore the advantages that we have compared with the other countries we compete with. Our labour market is quite flexible, we have good funding opportunities, a strong banking sector, as well as the debt burden on companies is affordable and we still still have relatively low labour costs compared to some other countries. It cannot be noted that the country's small debt and public finances are in order. We need to see how we look in Europe as a whole. Firstly, Estonia has been at the forefront of reducing unemployment since the last financial crisis. We have fallen unemployment to a level of 5% below which it is already harder to go. This shows that the labour market and labour market institutions have worked well since the last financial crisis. Secondly, slow productivity growth is not just characteristic of Estonia; in fact, it is now a global problem in the global economy. The National Audit Office has accused the government that economic and business policy does not shape labour market demand in a targeted way. In fact, let us be honest, if we look at what has been done, these measures and programmes separately, many things have just started. The growth strategy for entrepreneurship for the years 2014 to 2020 has also not yet been able to exert its effect; many measures are still opening up. Of course, it is important that we be able to determine the growth areas of the Estonian state. In future, it will have to be assessed whether these options have been correct. It is clear that we cannot compete in all areas of the world. We still need to determine where we are stronger than competitiveness and to contribute to these areas. It also requires assessments of whether we have chosen the right areas. In its review, the National Audit Office has also paid attention to the system of monitoring and forecasting labour needs in OSKA and has made proposals to increase its funding. It is not possible to read out all the programmes already designed to improve productivity and address labour market problems, but they are included in the government action programme and listed in the national competitiveness plan. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U273	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U274	Of course, many programmes are 'cross-ministerial'. The State Chancellery has a pretty big role here, but as it turned out from the answer to my question, the State Chancellery was not sufficiently involved in this review. However, this would be necessary in order for this review to be more inclusive and for criticism to be as constructive as possible. It must be accepted that productivity growth is a long-term process. This depends on a lot of factors, not just government policy. As far as the government's activities are concerned, management and administrative arrangements will be reviewed in order to promote institutional cooperation. In order to tackle cross-ministerial issues together, task forces and expert groups have already been set up and the focus has been on innovation in the public sector, as has been heard from the presentation. It can be accepted that regional action plans have so far had little real impact. But it is also clear that economic processes are natural or inevitable: they are declining industries and are sectors with greater competitiveness. We are part of a global economy and there cannot be such national measures that reverse the natural processes of the economy. I also want to thank the National Audit Office on behalf of the Reform Party Group for its work. These comments and proposals, which are in the review, must certainly be taken into account in the planning of the country's future activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U275	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The overview of the National Audit Office has been discussed. Thank you to the Auditor General and the entire National Audit Office team for this review!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U276	Let's move on to item 16. The first reading of the Estonian-Russian border agreement initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation and the draft Act 108 on the ratification of the Narva-Finnish Bay Sea Area Demarcation Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation begins. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Marina Kaljuranna!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U277	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic submitted on 13 October. a Draft Act on the ratification of the Estonian-Russian border agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation and the agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation on the delimitation of maritime areas in the Gulf of Narva and Finland. During the preparation of today's debate, I took part in the discussions in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and met with almost all the political groups. All the discussions I attended were very meaningful, detailed and fundamental, stressing the interest of the members of the Riigikogu as well as the responsibility for the ratification of the treaties. I am sure that the border agreements have been analysed in more detail by the members of the Riigikogu in the history of Estonia, especially given the fact that almost all governments and almost all the compositions of the Riigikogu have been discussing border agreements since 2005. As Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would like to thank you all for the necessary and constructive discussions. As I prepared for today's debate, I reread the verbatim reports of the discussions of the Riigikogu in 2005 and 2014 and made sure that the main issues that were then raised in the context of the border agreements, which we discussed over the last month, were the same. These are very fundamental issues related to Estonia's succession, the validity of the Tartu Peace Treaty, the compatibility of treaties and the Constitution, etc. Issues concerning the ethical and timing of contracts with aggressor deserve special attention. Is and why do we need contracts now? We've lived for over 20 years without border agreements. These are very important issues. I will also mention these in my speech, but I will start with history. It is recalled that the process of border negotiations began in 1992 as part of the national negotiations between Estonia and Russia. In 1996 delegation to the negotiations between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation on the Estonian-Russian border agreement and the agreement on the delimitation of maritime areas were formed by government arrangements. In the autumn of the same year, the agreements were in principle ready and initialled in March 1999. On 18 May 2005, Urmas Paet, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Estonia, and Sergei Lavrov, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation signed agreements and the Riigikogu ratified the treaties on 20 May 2005. The signed agreements did not enter into force because Russia stated that it did not want to be a party to these agreements, making the preamble included in the Constitutional Law on the ratification of treaties in the Riigikogu, which concerned the validity of the Tartu Peace Treaty. In 2012, all the presidents of the political groups of the Riigikogu turned to the government with the initiative to revive the process of concluding border agreements. The negotiations followed and in May 2013 it was agreed to complete the texts of the earlier agreements. The following provision was inserted in the preamble to both agreements: '... developing the legal basis for resolving issues related to the Estonian-Russian state border, and mutually confirming the lack of territorial requirements... ' In Article 9 of the Treaties, the following provision was added: 'This Treaty regulates matters relating exclusively to national borders. ' This reiterated the principles in the agreements expresses verbis, which were included in the preamble to the ratification law in 2005. The Government of the Republic approved the draft agreements on 23 May 2013 and the Foreign Ministers Urmas Paet and Sergei Lavrov signed the agreements on 18 February 2014. The ratification process followed in the Riigikogu, during which the treaties passed the first reading, and looked forward to the process of ratification in Russia. Russia did not take any steps and the procedure for the agreements ended due to the end of the work of the previous Riigikogu. Following the entry into office of the new Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic re-submitted the treaties for ratification. The texts of the agreements have not changed compared to the 2014 texts. The explanatory memorandum annexed to the contracts, updated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has changed, adding the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice currently in office. Thus, 3810 days have passed since the first reading of the first ratification, in other words, ten years, five months and five days. I would like to compare the current protracted process with the ratification of the Tartu Peace Treaty. The Estonian-Russian Peace Treaty was submitted for ratification by the Constituent Assembly on 2 February 1920 immediately after its signature. There were also three readings at the time of the ratification of the peace treaty. The first reading took place in the Constituent Assembly on 10 February, the second reading on 11 or 12 February, and the third reading was on 13 February 1920. After the third reading, the Treaty was ratified unanimously. At that time, the Treaty was, of course, important in terms of the right to peace and self-determination, not so much because of the question of borders. After signing the Tartu Peace Treaty, Jaan Poska said his famous words to the members of the Estonian delegation: 'Today is the most important day for Estonia in its 700-year history: for the first time today, Estonia will determine its own destiny for the future. ' Today, 95 years later, Estonia also determines its own destiny and future. I am sure that the border agreements are part of our more secure future. The conclusion of border agreements with Russia will have a positive impact on Estonia's security, as it will help to increase stability and predictability in relations between countries and prevent possible misunderstandings and misunderstandings on a topic as important as national territories. A clearly established and delineated limit is therefore an additional security-enhancing factor. The border agreement allows the removal of illogicality on the boundary lines and the effective surveillance of the border. In the interests of Estonia, there is a clearly defined and mutually confirmed border of state. Although the control line between the two countries has so far acted as a state border, the border agreement gives us the assurance that there are no territorial claims against our country in Russia. The fact that the current temporary solution has worked under normal circumstances does not necessarily mean that it will operate in more difficult situations. As a lawyer, I cannot accept the underestimation of contractual relations. Justice is not omnipotent, but in any case it is better to have agreements at both good and bad times than not to have them. The existence of border agreements also means clarity for our partners in the world, including the fulfilment of Estonia's international obligations. Our eastern border is the NATO collective defence border and the European Union's eastern border. The existence of a clearly fixed and functional border cannot be underestimated either from a security or economic policy point of view. Although work on border agreements has been going on for a few decades, it has been clear to us that the tightened security situation in Europe since 2014 is an addition to our security. We have unequivocally condemned the illegal annexation of Crimea and the aggression of Russia elsewhere in Ukraine. Our actions in the European Union and elsewhere are aimed at restoring Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. Together with the like-minded countries, we have taken steps to respond to these gross violations of international law. For example, sanctions against Russia are still in force. The conclusion of border agreements does not change our attitude towards Russia's aggression. By concluding contracts, we do not back down on our principles and values. At the same time, Estonia should not go along with the notion that the violation of international law by one state renders international law invalid and international agreements pointless. On the contrary, international law continues to apply and our task is to force the offender to take up his international obligations. In this context, apart from national sovereignty and territorial integrity, I also mention the general principle of international relations that the borders with neighbouring countries are confirmed by agreements. Therefore, the existence of border agreements is a rule rather than an exception. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The following is a discussion of the Tartu Peace Treaty and the Constitution. The Tartu Peace Treaty is important to us and will remain important to us both as a symbol and as a legal instrument, as an international agreement. First of all, the provision of the Tartu Peace Treaty, according to which Russia 'obviously recognised the independence and independence of the Estonian state, voluntarily and forever giving up all the sovereign rights that Russia had enjoyed on the basis of the constitutional order of the people of Estonia and the country, as well as international agreements that now, in this sense, will lose their payback for future times'. As a technical agreement, the state border agreement changes only one part of the topics covered by the Tartu Peace Treaty and does not raise the question of the validity of the Tartu Peace Treaty as an important foundation of Estonian statehood. The legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia and the Tartu Peace Treaty will continue to apply after ratification of these agreements. The draft has also been submitted in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. The provisions of the Constitution provide for the possibility that the respective border can be determined in addition to the Tartu Peace Treaty by means of other transnational border agreements. According to the first sentence of § 122 of the Constitution, the Estonian land border is determined by the Tartu Peace Treaty and other international border agreements. According to § 2 (2) of the State Border Act, the Estonian land border is also determined by the Tartu Peace Treaty and other transnational border agreements. The task of the first sentence of § 122 of the Constitution is to confirm the validity of the border agreements previously concluded by the Republic of Estonia at the level of the Constitution and the second sentence of the same section provides for the possibility of concluding agreements that change the existing borders. This is confirmed by the views expressed by the Constitutional Assembly when setting up the provision. The reference to the Tartu Peace Treaty must be read in conjunction with the references made in § 122 of the Constitution to other transnational border agreements and the procedure for the processing of agreements amending national borders. All Estonian Chancellors of Justice, who have regained independence, have analysed the relationship between border agreements and the Tartu Peace Treaty and the conformity of border agreements with the Constitution. All Chancellors of Justice have concluded that the border agreements are in accordance with the Constitution and replace only one of the provisions of the Tartu Peace Treaty, the first paragraph of Article III, which provides for the crossing of the state border. Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise wrote to the Minister of Foreign Affairs in his letter that the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia does not prohibit the Riigikogu from ratifying the border agreements and that the border agreement 'changes the current Tartu Peace Treaty in the part defining the state border (Article III), leaves the Tartu Peace Treaty in force'. I would like to address separately the agreement on the delimitation of maritime areas. Before World War II, Estonia did not have a maritime border with either Russia or Finland. So far, the sea border has been defined by the 1993 Maritime Borders Act, which states, among other things: 'As the EEZ and the continental border between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation has not yet been fixed in the Gulf of Finland near Vaindlo, the EEZ and continental shelf boundary of the Republic of Estonia from point 38 (70) may change as a result of these negotiations. ' The Estonian-Russian Sea Area Demarcation Agreement is guided by the International Law of the Sea. The calculation centre line method has been used to determine the sea border. According to the agreement, the sea border line in the Gulf of Narva and Finland will run along the calculated centre line, which is drawn so that each point of the sea is equidistant from the nearest points on the Narva and Finnish coasts. The line in the description and maps of the national border is slightly different from the current reference line and certain parcels are exchanged between the parties compared to the current reference line. For example, Estonia receives land in the so-called Saatse boot area and in the area of the Marinova forest in the Russian Meremäe municipality and in the municipality of Värska in the region of Suursoo. The parties agreed that changes on land, including on lakes, would be equal, so that neither side would lose or win the territory. Tackling national border issues will contribute to the development of border areas and cross-border cooperation. More precise impacts on the economy, the living and natural environment, regional development and the organisation of public authorities and local authorities will be apparent after the entry into force of the national border agreements. I would like to stress that the situation of Setos will not change in any way compared to the present situation. Representatives of the Seto Self-governing Association have been continuously involved in the process of border agreements. The last time I met the Setos was a few weeks ago. As Minister of Foreign Affairs, I am very pleased that with the support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Seto House was opened this spring in Petseri, which we will continue to support. Article 8 of the National Border Agreement provides that a number of issues relating to the practical operation of the national border are to be dealt with by separate agreements between border representatives, water usage rules, shipping, joint use of bridges and hydrotechnical facilities at the border, fishing conditions, etc. Some of the relevant arrangements already exist. Consultations with Russian partners are planned with a view to concluding agreements that are missing or need to be updated. After the entry into force of the agreements, an inter-country demarking committee shall be set up and the marking of national borders shall begin, during which the border shall be marked and marked. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I have had the opportunity to participate in the negotiations on border agreements since 1992, at the beginning as an expert in the legal department, then as director of the legal department's office, then as Deputy Chancellor of the Legal Area, after that as Ambassador to Moscow and now as Minister of Foreign Affairs. I call on you to approve the draft law submitted by the Government of the Republic, ratify the border agreements and take the necessary steps to further strengthen Estonia's security. On February 10, 1920, Jaan Poska in his speech at the Constituent Assembly, in connection with the ratification of the Tartu Peace Treaty, said the following words: 'Let us taste peace, but let us preserve our military strength. ' I think these words are also very important and topical today. I don't know what Jaan Poska would say if he were in this chair right now. Perhaps something like this: 'Let us make agreements, but let us keep our guard and increase our security. ' The decision is yours to make. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U278	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Questions for the initiator of the draft. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for this thorough presentation. There is probably no way to reverse the negotiations, but how has it happened that these agreements have essentially reached the borders of the ESSR, on the one hand, or rather stuck to the borders of the ESSR, and on the other hand, there is talk of the Tartu Peace and the post-Tartu Peace border again and again? Why did there never come to be an opportunity for an interim option or a partial compromise?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U280	Thank you for your question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Negotiations are always a complicated process. Having been involved in these negotiations, I can assure you that a wide range of possibilities and wordings have been discussed, as well as the exchange of different parcels. I do not agree with you that it was based on the administrative line of the Soviet Union or the line between the republics of the Union. The mandate of the Estonian delegation was the Tartu Peace Treaty and other international agreements. The Tartu Peace Treaty border has also been maintained in this border agreement. The rest of the border was agreed by the parties. In 1996, the delegation received a mandate from the Government of the Republic to negotiate on the basis of the Tartu Peace Treaty and the line of reference that developed in practice at the time, which was clearly marked by Russia after Boris Yeltsin's ukase in 1994. This mandate was negotiated and, within the framework of this mandate, the best result that could be achieved, I dare say.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U281	Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, Marina Kaljurand! I calculated that in a few weeks, 35,000 days will pass from the ratification of the Tartu Peace Treaty in this very room. At that point, however, there was a second room, but, yes, it was in the Riigikogu, the Constituent Assembly. Why do you think some people, some countries, some districts are ashamed of the peace of Tartu in this context, that the Republic of Estonia was the first to recognise Soviet Russia, and Soviet Russia was the first to recognise the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U282	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U283	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for this question. I am not ashamed of the Tartu Peace Treaty. It's very easy for me to say. I am very proud that in 1920 the Estonian state signed this agreement, which has so far been a symbol for our country, but also a legally binding document and an international agreement. However, the reason may well be (now I am speculating) that the Estonian state was the first countries to go to negotiations with Communist Russia at the time and entered into a peace agreement. There may be other reasons, but it would probably be more appropriate to ask this question to those people who are ashamed of the Tartu Peace Treaty.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U284	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U285	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Madam Minister, may I begin by asking you not to put words in your mouth again for Jaan Poska? Poor man must be turning around in his grave. But you mentioned that the border agreement to be concluded will increase predictability in Russia's behaviour and thus our security. Would you be so kind as to speak out how you think it will increase the predictability of Russia's behaviour or what it will look like in concrete terms? How can we conclude that Russia's behaviour will become predictable after the conclusion of this agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U286	Ratification of border agreements increases predictability in the sense that there is less chance of different perceptions. Today, too, there may be different perceptions of some sections of the control line. Today, too, there may be another question as to whether one country has territorial claims against another. All these issues will disappear once an agreed and ratified agreement is in place between the countries, on the basis of which the country's border will be marked. This will give effect to the same provisions that have now been agreed by delegations and approved by the government. These will come into force and remove questions about whether there are territorial complaints, where the border is exactly going, etc. All these questions will receive a single answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U287	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U288	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. You said that the following other contracts and some of them have already been concluded and that they deal with problems such as Narva reservoir and electricity issues. But don't you think maybe we should put these agreements in place first and then the border that maybe the conclusion of the border agreement will not result in these other agreements coming again? We are part of the former Soviet Union and, according to Russia's current intentions, we are still in their interest; they want their influence over us to be maintained. Maybe there won't be any other contracts. Are you sure that they will come and that all the economic interests that we now have will come true?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U289	I thank you for this question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Of course, there is no certainty about any agreement being concluded until that agreement has been concluded and enforced. At the moment, I can assess on the basis of what the parties have agreed on in the border agreement. It has been agreed in the border agreement that, after the conclusion of the border agreement, there will be an individual question that I mentioned in my speech. Nothing has prevented these issues from being resolved already. Most of them have been resolved as of today. For example, an inter-border cooperation agreement with an inter-governmental agreement applies and works. As regards the maintenance of Narva's hydroelectric plant facilities and their responsibility for their condition, there are cooperation agreements between Eesti Energia and the relevant Russian authority. As regards the use of the energy resources of the Narva reservoir, Eesti Energia Narva Power Plants also have a separate agreement with the GES-13 of Russia's respective group, etc. This procedure is still regulated. Both parties have complied with these provisions and acted in good faith without the border agreement. Do I think this kind of good faith will last forever? I can't guarantee it, but I can talk in practice. In practice, the agreements have worked and, after the entry into force of the border agreement, there will also be the possibility of concluding the same agreements between governments, i.e. at a higher level.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U290	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U291	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! I don't like common anti-Russian hysteria. I would like our relations with the neighbouring country to be normal and friendly. But how do you appreciate the work of this delegation, who in its time agreed with the neighbour sea areas, roughly a thousand square kilometers without unconditional and free assignment to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U292	Thank you for your question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. I myself was a member of this delegation, but I am trying to make an objective assessment. Both agreements reached the maximum amount that could be agreed in this situation and in these circumstances and in the mandate given to the delegation. As far as maritime areas are concerned, they have not been surrendered to anyone. As I said, before World War II, the sea border between Estonia and Russia was not fixed, nor was it determined between Estonia and Finland. The boundaries of sea areas were only established after World War II, so negotiations began from scratch. By then it was known where the last point on the mainland was, and the sea border began. It was also known to be governed by international law, namely the 1982 International Convention on the Law of the Sea, which sets out the principle that I presented in my report, and was also governed by the Law on Maritime Borders adopted in 1993. So I don't agree with it as if we've given up something. The negotiations started on the basis of these mandates and legal documents.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U293	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U294	Madam Minister! I do not think we have any disagreements about the border with Russia. We'll take the case or the safety attaché story: they're sailing to one side or the other, we're chasing them, but we know where the border is. I mean, no one's been arguing about that. The border agreement was signed four days before Russia annexed Crimea and other territories. The fact that four days after we signed the border agreement, Russia eliminated all border agreements with Ukraine and annexed Crimea did not give rise to the idea in the foreign administration that there should suddenly be a change in foreign policy or a change in attitude? I don't mean the kind of soft statement that Urmas made on March 1, but that's all I've heard. In other words, did you trust him after that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U295	Thank you for your question. Trusted who? [[???Hüüe saalist: 'Venemaad!'???]] Yes, indeed, as I said, recent events are a cause for concern. The latest terrorist acts and the migration crisis are all such facts that make the security situation more difficult, including in Estonia. In my presentation, I also said that Estonia has been very fundamental in condemning Russia's behaviour in both bilateral relations with Russia and as a Member State of the European Union and as a member of NATO. That is one reason why we are now calling for an extension of sanctions if Russia does not comply with the Minsk agreements. However, when someone violates international law, it does not invalidate all international law and agreements are always better than non-contractual agreements. Yeah, you gotta be careful. Yes, we must take into account the fact that Russia is now more provocative and unpredictable than ever before. However, there is a clear legal document-set limit, which is written off in nature, which is also more understandable to our partners, as it is also the eastern border of NATO and the European Union, better than the agreed baseline.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U296	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U297	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. It was nice listening to your speech, but it was largely composed of half-sisters. Starting from this, it's like renaming a line of control would increase our security. No, you won't! Continuing that the Estonian land border is determined by the Tartu Peace Treaty and other international agreements. These 'others' refer to the land border with Latvia for which no agreement had been concluded. These are the other international agreements. A lawyer could understand that. Thirdly, it is very striking what you have repeated several times that we did not have a sea border with Russia before World War II. There wasn't, but Estonia had a very clearly defined territorial sea; Estonia was based on the extension of the land border in the Gulf of Narva. Basically, the Gulf of Narva was our inland sea and we were based on the fact that we had three...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U298	The question is this: if you say that the Tartu Peace Treaty is still in force, will you support Russia's demand for compensation for occupation damage?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U299	A question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U300	I thank you for this question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. First of all, I believe that the validity of the Tartu Peace Treaty and the claim for damages for the occupation are not unambiguously linked. But I will answer both of your questions. First, yes, the Tartu Peace Treaty is in force. Not all the provisions, but some provisions, especially the second one, which I read out. Yeah, that's true. This Agreement amended Article III of the Tartu Peace Treaty, which described the progress of the border. It's been changed. There are still provisions in the Tartu Peace Treaty that do not apply for various reasons. For example, those concerning Estonia's neutrality or optimism or the handing over of gold. At the same time, there are provisions in the Tartu Peace Treaty that are still valid and which we demand from the Russian side. For example, the return of cultural assets, the return of Tartu University assets, the return of the President's official money as an item of mutual value. So there are provisions in the Tartu Peace Treaty that apply, and there are provisions that have expired today. But basically, yes, the Tartu Peace Treaty applies to Estonia, it is part of our statehood, our succession. As far as compensation claims are concerned, this issue is not linked to border agreements. If there is a need and a desire to discuss this issue, the government can do so, although in previous times the government has repeatedly said that it is not considered necessary to submit compensation claims, especially knowing how different our interpretation of what took place in relations between Estonia and Russia in 1939, 1940 and 1944. With regard to the different interpretations, I believe that our relations with Russia have evolved into relations between two adult countries, and we can agree on what issues we do not agree on. We can deal with issues where we do not give up our fundamental values and our principles and leave aside the issues in which we would agree to do so. If I were in front of you today with a free trade agreement, that would be a violation of our legitimacy and principles. If I were to be before you today with a request that we remove some duuma ambassadors from the sanctions or that we reduce the sanctions so that we can conclude a border agreement, we would withdraw from our values and principles. There isn't one right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U301	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U302	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. I listened to your report and understood a lot, but I have to admit, not everything. I received an overview of your impressive career in the Estonian External Action Service and its various stages, in accordance with the Estonian-Russian border agreement, or how you have dealt with this topic at different stages. But then you referred to an investment and I didn't quite understand how it was connected to the Estonian-Russian border agreement. It was the Seto house in Petseri. In my opinion, this has nothing to do with the border agreement and, unfortunately, there is still a very different understanding of the Estonian-Russian border agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U303	Thank you for your question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. I'm really sorry if my presentation sounded like my career at the State Department. That was not the purpose of this report. The purpose of the presentation was to introduce the border agreements and how we reached the border agreements, as this is a new composition of the Riigikogu. I also wanted to introduce some of the provisions that raised the most questions when I met people in different groups. As regards support for Setos and investment in the Seto House, you are right, this is not the subject of the border agreement. But this illustrates that the situation of Setos, which I have been asked about very often, will not change after the entry into force of the border agreement. The situation of the Setos changed in 1994, when the Russian side unilaterally marked the check line. The Estonian side was then in the order of 5000 setos and the Russian side in the order of 200. I understand Setos' concerns. We have dealt with all these concerns throughout the history of border negotiations. For example, the delegation involved a Seto Special Representative, the rural elders were involved, we specifically raised the issue of simplified border crossings so that Setos could visit their relatives and also tombs. The last request that was addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was precisely support for the Seto House. In my example, I wanted to say that even when the border agreement is concluded and enters into force, the fate of the Setos is important to us. We will continue to deal with this and therefore leave them alone or not to respond to their concerns even after the entry into force of the border agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U304	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U305	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! You mentioned earlier that you were in the Commission on the delimitation of water areas, and you stated that, objectively, this was the best solution. However, I do not think that my work can be objectively assessed; it should be done by someone else. But your speech also mentioned that Russia should be forced to comply with its international obligations. Its international obligations included the Treaty on Bases and the Agreement on Mutual Assistance. In this context, claims for damages are very important. You actually brought it in yourself. How does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs intend to force Russia to comply with the agreements that it has concluded with us and which it does not comply with but, on the contrary, even denies?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U306	Thank you for your question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. But when you listened to the context of my speech, I spoke about the occupation of Crimea, the military activities in Ukraine and the aggressive and provocative behaviour of Russia there. I spoke about sanctions and measures that Estonia, bilaterally, but also with the European Union and NATO allies, is using to force Russia to comply with international law and to end the occupation of Crimea and to respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. The issue of occupation damage was brought in by someone else.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U307	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U308	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. We are quick to force Russia to comply with the agreements it has concluded with other countries, but there is no way to force it to comply with the agreements with Estonia. Do you agree that our diplomats, negotiators, have been weak if even the waterline has not been placed where it was in the 1920s or 1930s?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U309	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. I have no reproach for Estonian diplomats. Estonian diplomats and those who participated in the negotiating delegation were guided by the mandate they had, and by those laws, the norms of international law that were in force then and which are still in force today. As I said, the mandate was the law on maritime borders and international law. It was known where the land would end, and from there the delimitation of sea areas began. In the framework of this mandate, the Russian Party was negotiated and an agreement was reached within this mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U310	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U311	Madam Secretary of Foreign Affairs, you mentioned Crimea twice. On this basis, a model could be considered. Crimea was conquered by the Russian state at the end of the 18th century. Until about 1860 the majority of Crimean residents were Tatars, a large part of whom, after Russia became the winner of the Crimean war, left, partially voluntarily, partly apparently forced. Historians still argue which option is more important. It is now a fact that some kind of minority has come back to its historic homeland along very difficult routes, and the rest of the diaspora lives with them. On the basis of this model, do you think that a population that has either remained in a minority or is scattered around the world in its historic country should have any opportunity to engage in border negotiations? Do they have a moral right to say that this is the way, but not the other way?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U312	Thank you for your question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. If you mean the settos with this question, they were involved in the negotiations. They were involved through their representative, who was a member of the delegation, and they were also involved through rural elders. During all these years, they were constantly spoken to, listened to, and resolved outside the border negotiations. For example, I will use a simplified procedure to issue free visas so that they can go to the graves of relatives. All these questions were discussed. I went down the land line myself with a few members of the delegation, and we talked to people. A lot of people were also asked, "If there was a choice, which side would they want to live on? ' So, yes, I assure you with full responsibility that these issues were discussed, consulted and taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U313	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U314	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You have claimed that the Tartu Peace Treaty is in force. But I ask whether it is visible from the Estonian side alone. If Russia does not recognise the peace of Tartu, is it a peace treaty valid for international law or is it not?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U315	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for this question. This is a complex legal issue. The easiest way to answer this difficult question is by looking at how countries have recognised the legitimacy of the Republic of Estonia in practice. This is also directly related to the peace of Tartu, because the validity of the Tartu Peace Treaty is part of the legitimacy of the Republic of Estonia. Some countries have, yes, recognised Estonia's restoration of independence, Estonia's legal continuity. At the same time, there are countries that share the views of Russia that Estonia's accession to the Soviet Union was voluntary, and in 1991 it did not restore its independence but became a new state. There are also these opinions. The bilateral agreement can, of course, only be implemented and implemented if both sides understand the issue in the same way. Today, Russia and I do not have a single understanding of the agreement. The Russian side does not recognise the validity of the Tartu Peace Treaty; it has repeatedly said so. Therefore, there were also problems with the designation of the Tartu Peace Treaty in the context of the border agreements. International law does not provide such a single answer to this question, so we have looked at the practice of other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U316	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U317	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! In answering one question, you said that Estonia would certainly prolong the sanctions imposed against Russia until this country would comply with the Minsk agreements. I have these same Minsk agreements on this table right now, all 13 points. There is no mention of the Russian Federation in any of these points. I have always wondered how a country can comply with agreements where it has never been mentioned, where no obligation has been imposed on it as an object or subject. Can you explain whether this means that our sanctions against Russia will last indefinitely?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U318	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. I did not say that Estonia would prolong these sanctions. Estonia is one of the countries that supports the extension. They will be extended by the European Union. But yes, we support the extension until Russia starts to comply with the Minsk agreements. It is not always important to read who is mentioned in the text. Sometimes it is worth looking at who has signed the agreements. The Russian party's representative has signed, thereby making very clear commitments to the Russian side, so it concerns the establishment of a truce, the withdrawal of military equipment, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U319	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U320	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, Unfortunately, there is no time to dwell on all these half-truths, such as how border representatives' agreements were concluded, etc., at the time of the question. That's why I'm only focusing on the sea border. As I said, Estonia had a clearly fixed territorial sea before World War II. The Estonian SSR had an administrative border with the Russian Federation in the Gulf of Narva. The Republic of Estonia, however, did not currently choose to follow the sea border between the Soviet Union and the Russian Federation, nor did it choose to follow the sea border resulting from the Tartu Peace Treaty, but instead chose the third route. Do you admit that because of this, we have lost 150 to 1 000 square kilometers of seawater and mineral resources under this water?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U321	I thank you for this question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. I explain for the third time that the delimitation of maritime areas could not be based on the Tartu Peace Treaty, because the Tartu Peace Treaty concerned only the land and the lakes covered by the land border. The mandate for the delimitation of maritime areas included the law on the delimitation of maritime areas adopted by the Riigikogu in 1993, which stated exactly how Estonia defined its maritime areas, and the international law that was in force at that time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U322	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U323	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You said that the Tartu Peace Treaty has been amended or amended in so far as the border is concerned. As a lawyer, you should be perfectly aware that it is only possible to amend the contract with another agreement, which states exactly what is being amended. Where's the contract? This has not been seen by the government or the Riigikogu, no one. Where is the treaty that amends this Tartu Peace Treaty, where is it beautifully laid down?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U324	Thank you for your question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. This contract is in front of you. This is the land border agreement and the sea area delimitation agreement. The land border agreement changes the Tartu Peace Treaty. So these, in conjunction with the Tartu Peace Treaty and the new land border treaty, which amends Article III of the Tartu Peace Treaty and only the crossing of the state border, form what you asked about.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U325	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U326	Madam Secretary! I still receive letters and oral addresses from people who express some of the ideas that their home is set, Estonians, Latvians, and East Pets, they themselves still live there and want their grandchildren to live there too. There are also a lot of people whose fathers or mothers had to leave the area because of the collective farms, but who say that they really would like to go back if that were possible. They claim that in their souls it seems to be as if the Estonian state had betrayed them, not only forgetting, but betrayed them. What should I say to such voters?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U327	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for this question. I believe that some people may feel betrayed or abandoned. Of course, when a person feels that way, it must be taken very seriously and carefully. In fact, as I said at the beginning, the situation of Setos has not changed since 1994. In 1994, they were separated from Estonia, in fact it happened earlier, already during the Soviet Union. If they have concerns, it is about border crossing or cross-border cooperation, preserving their own culture, preserving their language, the Republic of Estonia has many opportunities to do so. I named the Seto house because it's been dealt with directly by the State Department. The Ministry of Culture has programs, and the Ministry of Education has programs. Of course, these opportunities must be introduced to people so that they do not feel as if they were abandoned or left alone or as if the Estonian state had turned their backs on them. If I can help, I'd be happy to do it with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U328	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U329	Good President of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, I'm coming back to a sea area of up to 1,000 square miles. You said that you acted within the scope of your mandate. Was this mandate or task at the time in the interests of the Estonian people?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U330	Thank you for your question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. I can build on what was discussed in the early 1990s and was discussed at the negotiating table. I can rely on the decision of the Government of the Republic to give the delegation a mandate. I have no reason to believe that this was not done in the interests of the Estonian people and of the Estonian state. I do not think that with this mandate, the interests of the Estonian state and the Estonian people would be deliberately or ignorantly abandoned. I negotiated or participated in the delegation knowing that we have a mandate and that all the circumstances, including the wishes and opportunities of the other party, have been taken into account in the drafting of the mandate. The negotiations were conducted on the basis of these positions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U331	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U332	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! I appreciate your action in concluding this agreement. But what are your next plans or steps? Once the agreement is concluded, this is clearly a positive step. What next positive steps will you plan to develop relations with Russia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U333	I thank you for this question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Firstly, once this Treaty is ratified, the instruments of ratification must be exchanged and the agreement will enter into force after 30 days. After that, the Demarking Committee will be operational. We have looked at the practice of other countries, such as Latvia. It's years of work before the border is finally marked off. Then, more specifically, we can go to the issues that I mentioned in my report, which are set out in Article 8 of the border agreement, and which need to be agreed at the level of governments. Some of them have already been agreed by an intergovernmental agreement, such as the question of border representatives, some things agreed between the authorities, some issues have not yet been negotiated. But the Estonian ministries have come up with proposals that they would like to regulate some more issues. My next step would be to launch negotiations on these issues. But in order to start negotiations and hold them, we need the other side. So very much will depend on what our relations with Russia will be like in the future, especially what Russia's behaviour and action will be like. On this basis, we can also set our course of action. As I have agreed with the Russian Foreign Minister, we will inform each other of the steps that are taking in our Parliament in both countries to try to complete the ratification process in both countries and enforce the agreements as far as governments can monitor such a thing. We can't stop this ourselves, but we can exchange and transmit information.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U334	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! For the third time, the Riigikogu deals with the first reading of the draft law on ratification of the border treaty. You have a slightly different experience than politicians, you have seen Estonia from outside for years, be it in Moscow, Washington or elsewhere. How does it look when you look at it from the outside? What do our ambassadors in the various countries of the world think this is a secondary issue, whether we have a border agreement or not? Will this help to strengthen our relationship with the international community? How does Estonia appear to solve this issue? Do you personally believe that this time the Russian duuma really wants to end this process in parallel with the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U335	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U336	I thank you for this question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. I'll start with the second question, it was easier. I can appreciate what the Russian Minister for Foreign Affairs has told me and what is happening right now. As of today, I dare say that, yes, the Russian side wishes to ratify these agreements, and the Russian side also wants to enforce them. That's the way it is today, but things can change. I understand that. As far as the way this issue looks is concerned, our allies and partners see it as a rather positive step. In addition to the establishment of the Estonian state border, the eastern border of NATO and the European Union is legally enshrined in the international treaty and finally marked off. Of course, our partners and allies are watching it. Are they putting pressure on us? No, they're not putting pressure on us. But when this step is taken, it is a positive step. It should not be forgotten that the border agreement between Estonia and Russia is the last border agreement that Russia will conclude with the European Union or a NATO Member State.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U337	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U338	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You have mentioned several times today that this draft will increase the security of our country. At the same time, the agreement is a two-sided thing. What do you think might be the other side's interest, security or other considerations?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U339	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for this question. We talked to the Russian Foreign Minister about this. I have no other sources, I can judge from what the Russian side has told us. At the moment, the Russian side has an interest in resolving one issue that is open to bilateral relations, which we can agree on and get off the table. Is there a hidden interest behind this? I cannot see them because, as I said before, in international relations, in international law, the principle is that if a state border can be governed by a border agreement, a written agreement, an international agreement, it is always better than a situation without an agreement. It adds clarity, it adds certainty. This is, I think, the approach of both countries to border agreements at present.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U340	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U341	Thank you. Dear Minister, You said that you have been involved in the border negotiation process since the beginning and that you have consistently dealt with the concerns of all Setos, that you have also involved rural elders and representatives of local governments, and that you will not leave the setos alone with these concerns after the entry into force of the border agreement. I therefore expect you to be very familiar with these concerns and issues and will certainly be able to answer my question. In 1994, the Riigikogu decided that the land of the legitimate subjects remaining in Petseri County would be returned. How will these countries be returned after the border agreement has been concluded?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U342	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for this question. I certainly don't claim to it as if I know all the Setos' problems. That's impossible. Yeah, I know some of the questions they've raised. If the State Department has been able to help them, we have. As far as your question is concerned, yes, indeed, in 1994, a law was passed on the basis of which the return claim would remain for those persons who had lodged a refund application until 1 March 2000. Some of them could not be returned because it was not under the control of the Estonian state, some of them were compensated. As far as I know, 5410 asset returns and compensation files have been opened for assets located in East Petseri County. 70000 hectares of land have been compensated for in East Petseri County and more than EUR 20 million have been paid for. Those are the facts. Following the conclusion of the border agreement, this right will be maintained by applicants who had applied for the return of the land by 2000 if it falls under Estonia's control. By concluding the border agreement, these areas will not remain under Estonia's control; they will remain within the territory of the Russian Federation. The Government of the Republic needs to decide and propose a legislative amendment or a new law to tell us what to do next as a next step. This land is likely to have to be compensated for these people because there is no longer any hope that they will get their land back. But that is a question I am not in a position to answer and which I am not competent to answer. This will be dealt with, the Government of the Republic will certainly discuss this matter after the conclusion of the border agreement. But compensation has been dealt with and will continue to be dealt with. This law will certainly be amended so that those who have not yet received compensation will receive it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U343	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U344	Thank you. Madam Minister of Foreign Affairs! The Riigikogu and the government have been working on the border treaty for ten years. What happens if the Riigikogu does not give a green light to sign the contract?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U345	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. Estonia is a democratic state, it is your decision. If the Riigikogu does not ratify the border treaties, we will probably live on. We are living on with the current baseline and we are looking forward to a new opportunity when the border agreements can be re-tabled for ratification and entry into force. On behalf of the Government of the Republic, I can say that the government sees no need to change them, to open them or to supplement them with anything. The government's position is clear: these agreements are in the interests of the Republic of Estonia, they must be enforced and the border must be marked off. But the rest is in your hands.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U346	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U347	Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! You have repeatedly confirmed that the Tartu Peace Treaty applies to the general principles, with certain exceptions. Do you agree that as the Tartu Peace Treaty applies, 5.2% of Estonia's area, which is almost the size of Saaremaa, is occupied? Can you confirm that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U348	Thank you for this question. I think it's largely a matter of interpretation. You used the word "deployment." You will probably also find legal scientists who will confirm this approach. I can say today that it has been agreed where the border will be. I can say that we have built on this mandate, which was obtained in 1996 and took account of the unilaterally marked check line. I wouldn't call it occupation. But as many as there are lawyers, so many opinions. There are certainly legal scientists who will confirm your interpretation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U349	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U350	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. There has been a lot of talk here today about the Tartu Peace Treaty, but my question is from a slightly different angle. In 2005, the Riigikogu passed the law and approved the ratification of the agreement with Russia, adding a preamble. This law has not been repealed, as if it is valid. The Riigikogu now adopts the ratification law for the second time. If he should approve, we have two ratification laws. How do you comment on this: should we repeal the law adopted in 2005 or will it remain in force? If so, what is its legal meaning? Perhaps you can explain this in more detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U351	Thank you for your question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. There is such a legal practice that every next law replaces an earlier law and so-called 'writes it over'. As far as the previous ratification law is concerned, it was different from what I have now presented to you. The wording of the Agreement has changed, the texts of both agreements have changed. Both agreements have been opened in the meantime, they have been renegotiated, their wording has been changed and the Government has put forward a new wording. Today, we are presenting a different draft for ratification than we had before. In my opening remarks, I mentioned the differences that exist in the provisions. I don't see any legal contradiction here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U352	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U353	Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! I was amazed at your answer to my question. I didn't ask what different legal scientists think. I will then ask you, directly and again, what is the official position of the Government of the Republic of Estonia with regard to Petserimaa, Setumaa and the St. John's Town beyond Narva. Are these areas occupied or not? If we say that this is a question of interpretation, how do you interpret what was here until 1991, whether it was the Soviet occupation or not? If this was an occupation, why do you not now admit that 5.2% of the area of the Republic of Estonia is still occupied today? What is the position of the Government of the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U354	Thank you for this question. Yes, there was an occupation in Estonia until 1991, from 16 June 1940 to 21 August 1991. There's no question. I also assure you that you may be legally right if you say that these areas have been occupied to this day. I wouldn't use that word, but you have the right to use it. There must be lawyers who approve of your interpretation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U355	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U356	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! There are quite a number of people living in border areas, some of whom have property on the other side of the border, some of whom have relatives buried in cemetery on the other side of the border. Several hundred people in Narva go across the border to work, more people go from us to work in Russia than they come from there. Will the ratification of the border treaty change anything in the regulation of border crossing? Does this make it easier or more difficult for people who need to cross the border regularly for the reasons I mentioned? Is there any idea of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U357	Thank you for your question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. The ratification and entry into force of the border agreement shall not alter the issuing and validity of visas or the visa regime. The visa regime is governed by agreements between the European Union and Russia. Yes, EU legislation provides that residents of border areas living up to 30 kilometres from the border can apply for a visa by simplified procedure. There's nothing else in the border agreement. The system can become simpler if there is another agreement between the European Union and Russia. But I cannot imagine this in the current political situation, where negotiations between the European Union and Russia on visa facilitation have been frozen.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U358	Thank you, Madam Secretary. There are more questions. Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U359	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! EKRE has bombarded you with sharp questions. In my opinion, it is even strange that they have not bombarded the chairman of their party, who took part in the decision-making process during these negotiations in the 1990s. But that's it. My question concerns our current knowledge. You mentioned that, at a meeting with the Russian Foreign Minister, you have discussed what concerns the possible ratification of these agreements by the Russian Parliament. What is our knowledge today? We have a first reading here today, but what is the situation in the Russian State Duma? Do we have any information on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U360	I thank you for this question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Yeah, we have information, but I don't really know how to answer that question. When I have met the Russian ambassador in Estonia, he has told me that one reading is needed in Russia, which will take place in January. If we have tried to read Russian laws ourselves, we have read from them that it takes two readings to ratify, in some cases three readings. So there really is a question mark. That is what we are formally asking, both through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Russian Ambassador, to clarify this contradiction. Currently, the Russian Ambassador in Estonia claims that only one reading is needed and the Russian duuma is ready for reading and ratification in January.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U361	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U362	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, Why don't you explain to Mr Mihkelson what the mandate and decision-making powers of the ambassador of one country are? Is it really the ambassador who makes decisions that place a state border in the negotiations and how they do it, or does the ambassador perform the tasks given by the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U363	I thank you for this question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Don't underestimate the ambassadors. Naturally, the ambassadors carry out the foreign policy of the Republic of Estonia and of course the ambassadors represent the state and government of Estonia. The credentials shall be issued by the President of the Republic to the ambassadors. But ambassadors are the primary sources of information we have abroad. Every recommendation the Ambassador makes to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the government, is very necessary and important. Foreign policy does not develop without the contributions of ambassadors and other diplomats. Only with their help can a proper, balanced foreign policy develop. I would also hate to underestimate the role of my former good colleague Mart Helme, who, as ambassador to Russia, wrote very meaningful memos, took a very active part in the border negotiations and presented his views, which, yes, indeed overlapd with those of the government. But I believe that Mart was a self-confident, bold and independent ambassador to present these views, not to please the government, but to speak what he thought was right.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U364	Thank you, Madam Secretary. It is nice to finish the presentation by exchanging compliments between the government and the Riigikogu. The Commission's rapporteur is Sven Mikser, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U365	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Thank you to the Minister for a very meaningful and excellent presentation. The Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the draft law on ratification of the Estonian-Russian border treaties in 108 six sessions. I'm gonna do a little historic tour. Indeed, we are not in this Chamber for the first time discussing the border agreements between Estonia and Russia and their ratification. It is recalled that the composition of Riigikogu X, not on 20 May but on 20 June 2005, was approved by 78 votes in favour of the Estonian-Russian Federation and the Act on ratification of the Estonian-Russian Treaty between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation on the delimitation of maritime areas in the Gulf of Narva and Finland. The President of the Republic was then able to declare this law as a law. Seven days later, the Russian side handed Estonia a note announcing its intention to initiate internal procedures in order to waive the signed contracts, on the grounds that the ratification law adopted by the Riigikogu changed the content of the agreement. This was followed by a certain silence, until 9 October 2012 by the Foreign Affairs Committee of the XII Riigikogu, together with all the political groups of the Riigikogu, which were four in the previous Riigikogu, as well as by the non-attached MPs, the Government of the Republic made a consensual proposal to resume consultations with the Russian Federation in order to find ways of concluding a border agreement satisfying both parties. On 18 February last year the Estonian and Russian Minister of Foreign Affairs also signed the border agreements. The Government initiated the draft ratification law on 7 March 2014, which reached the first reading in the Riigikogu in April, but due to the expiry of the working time of the Riigikogu, it fell out of the procedure without being able to be accepted or rejected in the final vote. After the Riigikogu was elected in March, the government once again gave the Estonian-Russian border agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation and the draft Act on ratification of the Narva-Finnish Gulf Sea Demarcation Treaty into the Riigikogu procedure. It was October 13th. On 27 October, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed for the first time the draft of which we had been appointed as the leading committee. The Foreign Minister, Marina Kaljurand, took part in this debate and gave an overview of the content and objectives of the draft and answered questions from the members of the Commission. The same issues were largely addressed today: the compatibility of border agreements with the Constitution, the validity of the Tartu Peace Treaty, as well as those related to the additional agreements negotiated and concluded after the entry into force of the border agreements under Article 8 of the border agreement. On 9 November the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the draft law 108 again. Chancellor Ülle Madise and Professor Lauri Mälksoo attended this session as guests. With the Chancellor of Justice, we have carried out a thorough examination of the issue of compliance of border agreements with the Constitution. The Chancellor of Justice also assured us that the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia does not preclude the conclusion, ratification or enforcement of border agreements. Professor Mälksoo and I talked about how border agreements interact with international law in general. We also talked about a certain tension between national law and international law, including in the context of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and international relations. We also touched on the question of the delimitation of maritime areas already discussed in the previous debate in the context of the absence of a well-known agreement between the Republic of Estonia and Soviet Russia between the two world wars and the current principles of the Law of the Sea have been established much later. At the meeting on 12 November, in the context of the draft, we discussed the so-called practical situation at the border. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, who gave the Committee on Foreign Affairs an overview of the development of the Estonian-Russian border as the external border of the European Union and the practical problems it entails, was present at this meeting as a guest. We also discussed border agreements on 16 November. Then Jüri Luik, Director of the International Centre for Defence Research, and former Estonian Ambassador to Russia, was the guest. At this meeting of the Commission, the issue of how the Russian Federation evaluates its external agreements signed by the Soviet Union before the Second World War was further addressed. The negotiation of border agreements or border issues immediately after the restoration of the independence of the Republic of Estonia in the early 1990s was also touched. On 17 November, the Committee on Foreign Affairs met with representatives of the Setomaa Municipality Association. Margus Timmo, Chairman of the Management Board of the Setomaa Association of Municipalities and Aare Hõrn, Member of the Management Board, Aarne Leima, Chief Executive of the Seto Congressional Assembly, Aare Polek, Head of the Mikitamäe rural municipality, Lembit Sikk, Head of the Misso rural municipality, and Kaja Tullus, Secretary of the Setomaa Association of Municipalities. We also talked about the topics already discussed in the previous draft debate, which relate to the practical problems of Setos living on both the Estonian and Russian sides and on both sides of the future state border, the use of these assets and the crossing of the border, in order to go to the graves, visit relatives, attend religious anniversaries. Finally, on 23 November, on Monday this week, we discussed the letters received by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the draft law on ratification of the border agreements. These letters can be divided into two groups. In one case, citizens simply expressed their concerns about the conclusion of a border agreement or found that the border agreement is not compatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia in one aspect or another. The members of the committee, however, considered that the assessments made by the Chancellor of Justice and other legal scientists, according to which the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia was not an obstacle to and allows for the conclusion of border agreements, were convincing. The members of the Commission were unanimous in the view that none of us wishes and intends to support the constitutional principles, the constitutional provision and the conflicting legislation in this Chamber. In a situation where the Constitution allows for the conclusion of border agreements, the conclusion of border agreements is the political decision of the Riigikogu as the elected representative body of the people. We discussed in more detail the question of property reform, as well as the issue of the disposal and compensation of real estate, which was already dealt with in this debate. We have come to the conclusion that this issue needs to be discussed between first and second reading in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. It certainly cannot be considered impossible that, in the light of this issue, some legislation on property reform requires further analysis and perhaps even amendment. In this case, the Committee on Foreign Affairs is not very likely to be the lead committee, but we certainly want to talk about it with the government and get clarification on how they intend to solve this problem. The procedural decisions concerning the first reading were taken at the meeting of the Commission on 12 November. The first of these decisions was to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be sent to the Riigikogu plenary on Wednesday, 25 November, to the first reading. It received the support of 4 members of the Commission, 2 against and no abstentions. The same result of the vote was put to the end of the first reading: by 4 votes in favour and 2 votes against, we are proposing this to the House. The law provides for 10 working days at the time when amendments are tabled. This proposal enjoyed the Commission's consensual support, as did the decision to appoint the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to act as rapporteur for the draft. And here I am. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U366	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Sven Mikser! I'm opening negotiations. Henn Põllaas, please, on behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U367	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Maybe we should go back to history, too. There is no point in talking about the peace of Tartu for a long time, we all know that very well. But there were perfectly clear reasons why the limits of Tartu's peace were placed where they were placed. This was done primarily for security reasons. The Petseri Upland and the areas behind the Narva River were those areas that would have taken Estonia beyond the "core" Estonia to protect Estonia. This was one very important aspect that the government is not paying attention to at all for some reason. But I come closer to the present, re-independence of Estonia. Estonia's independence, together with all the former features of the Republic of Estonia, was recognised by all countries. One characteristic was territory. If it is said that we do not have a border agreement, we need to conclude a new border agreement, it is not true, because the Tartu Peace Treaty is a valid treaty and it is also in the UN register of international agreements in force. So we have a border agreement, we don't have the slightest need for anything new. If the Minister of Foreign Affairs refused to admit here that Estonia's territories have been occupied and annexed, then it should remain on his conscience and on the government's conscience. But this, including the occupation of the entire territory of Estonia, has been recognised by all the rest of the world. When the Republic of Estonia regained independence, the Supreme Council, as well as the Congress of Estonia and the Riigikogu, decided to go to negotiations with Russia with a view to restoring the borders of Tartu peace. The Minister of Foreign Affairs boasted that he had participated in this delegation from the outset. I am very sad to note that the Estonian delegation has gone to negotiations with a clear mandate, but there is nothing left of it today. None of Estonia's wishes, no position has been defended in the negotiations. Estonia has retreated from absolutely all positions. When, in 1994, what we later called a temporary check line was put in place with Yeltsin's ukase, and we also laid down the law, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs presented a protest note to Russia and announced that Estonia's right territory is within the limits of Tartu's peace. This was confirmed by the Riigikogu in 1995 after the 'July agreements' were ratified and the delegation was given guidelines for negotiating precisely that. In 1996, when the Estonian-Russian border treaty was initialled in Petroskoi, Raul Mälk and Siim Kallas arbitrarily, without any mandate, took out a reference to the peace of Tartu. On your own! The contracts and negotiations were classified. The Estonian people, and even the Setos, did not have the slightest right or opportunity to participate in these matters. The agreement was only published in 2005 when Paet signed it in Moscow and for the first time came to the Riigikogu for ratification. So when they say it's our big victory... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U368	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U369	...that's not true. Estonia does not need this agreement; it is harmful to us. In addition to abandoning over 10,000 Estonian citizens in Petseri County, we are also rejecting hundreds of billions of euros of mineral resources. The oil shale that remains in the area alone would cover the Estonian economy's need for 75 years. But we're not giving up anything, are we? When it comes to security, I am sorry, Ukraine had a border agreement with Russia, and they also had Russian security guarantees in the case of nuclear weapons abandonment. Did it in any way protect Ukraine from aggression, occupation and annexation of Crimea? Latvia concluded a border agreement in 2005. Has this increased Latvia's security in any way? Is their situation any better than ours? No, it's not. We're naive to say that our security is improving. In 2005, at least better lies and better reasons were invented. It was said that we would not become a member of NATO without it, we would not become a member of the European Union, but this is how our relations will improve. Today we know it was all wrong from the beginning to the end. We are told that our security will improve because we know where to build the garden. I'm sorry, we know exactly where this border is set, our border guards have known all along. Eston Kohver was kidnapped in a situation where we had a signed border agreement with Russia. We have it, but it didn't stop the Russians from robbing him. If people say they don't know where that border is, check the Internet. Please, you will see videos where Estonian and Russian border guards are discussing that there are traces here, this grass pussy is Estonia's, but this stump is Russian. They know exactly where the border is. The border treaty doesn't add anything here. It's about sovereignty. The question is whether the country wants to protect its territory and its territorial integrity. We know that the coalition does not want this, because the Prime Minister answered my question as to whether he was going to protect Estonia's territorial integrity as soon as his appointment was the first time that he did. Today we see that he really does not intend to. The Estonian Constitution says that Estonia's territory is uniform and indivisible. It dates back to the 1920 Constitution, as Jüri Uluots, who was one of the founders of this constitution, said at the time. That is what it means today, too, that it is uniform and indivisible. But I will now read out the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party: to reject at first reading the draft Act on ratification of the Estonian-Russian border agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation and the agreement on the delimitation of sea areas between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U370	Andres Herkel, please, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U371	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! The members of the Free Party shall be guided by a free mandate, such as that appropriate to the Free Party, as well as by a recommendation from the representative body of the Free Party. This recommendation is not to support these agreements. There are three points to justify this. First, there is no reference to the 1920 Tartu Peace Treaty and communication with it. Secondly, there are major substantive shortcomings in these agreements. Thirdly, in a situation where Russia has torn large territories from Georgia, annexed the Crimean Peninsula and continues its attacks on the Ukrainian Republic, this will have an indirect effect on these actions. If Russia does not respect the independence and territorial integrity of its neighbours, no border agreement will guarantee us peace and the integrity of our borders. I also draw attention to the fact that Ukraine had a border agreement with Russia, but what was lacking was a border. Our situation is exactly the opposite now. Now, however, what are these substantive shortcomings? Leaving aside the issues relating to the sea border, I believe that the biggest material flaw is that, for more than 20 years, we have not been dealing with border negotiations as much as with border transfers by Estonia. Yes, we can talk about a change of territory here, in view of Saatse's boot, or that there is a post-Tartu peace border somewhere over the lake, and then we can argue whether it is a land border, a sea border it is not. However, the fact remains that we have remained within the control line, which was unilaterally marked off in 1994, essentially the borders of the ESSR. Why has it gone this way? At least you should admit it's gone like this. The Commission stated that it was necessary to get Russian troops out of Estonia in the early 1990s and we were not able to ask very much from Russia. In the next debate, however, it became clear that the border line was negotiated only after the Russian troops were removed, but then there were already some new jams, and again it was as if it was not appropriate for us to ask for something and to defend our positions more strongly. These processes, yes, of course are not reversible, but it would at least be fair to admit that we have given in almost everything, and that is too much. And finally. For the third time now, we are in a situation where the Estonian side starts unilaterally with the ratification process in the Riigikogu. We do not know how far it is from the Russian side or how it deals with these agreements in the first place. We're just going up ahead again, at least in this one phase. We don't think we should do that. What's the Russian side doing? Do they need one reading, two readings or three readings to be ratified? As it sounded before, we don't know that. As far as I know, unlike the Estonian Riigikogu, even the deadline for first reading is not known in the Russian Parliament. We're in a pretty unpredictable situation. And just as in previous times, we really don't have a fortress where we're going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U372	There's no more calls. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has proposed to conclude the first reading of the draft 108, but the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has proposed to reject the draft 108 at first reading. We shall vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to reject 108 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 13 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of the proposal of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, 63 against and 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U373	We have reached the 17th point on today's agenda. The first reading of the draft Environmental Monitoring Act 100 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. The initiator's waitress is Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U374	Good evening, Mr. Chairman. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This is a bill with a beautiful round number, bill No 100, draft law on environmental monitoring. I'm already hoping and assuming that...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U375	Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry! It would make perfect sense if the debates were to continue outside this hall and we would allow the initiator of the bill to perform. Thank you. Please, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U376	Thank you. There is hardly any connection to the border agreement in this draft. Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! You have received a draft Environmental Monitoring Act prepared at the Ministry of the Environment. The current Environmental Monitoring Act entered into force on 15 February 1999. In the meantime, many changes have taken place both in the area of fundamental environmental rights and in the area of environmental protection. At the initiative of the Ministry of Justice, the codification of environmental law is carried out in order to consolidate all environmental law into a comprehensive environmental law. Within this framework, a new draft law on environmental monitoring has been drawn up. Compared to the law in force, the draft law re-structures the rules for the purpose of comprehension and traceability; the definitions are harmonised with those used in other parts of the environmental code. More specifically, the organisation of national environmental monitoring and the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment will be addressed, with greater attention being paid to inclusion. The draft specifies the duties, responsibilities and competences of the responsible enforcement body, with greater attention being paid to the storage, use and publication of data. Voluntary monitoring, which can provide significant additional information on the state of the environment alongside national environmental monitoring, will be addressed. The definition of an environmental monitoring station, area and site shall be defined. It is intended to compensate the landowner for any damage caused by the plant or area. Monitoring is carried out by the Environmental Inspectorate on the basis of a draft law. Provision shall be made for the use of data in the event of an environmental hazard or significant environmental disturbance and a rapid notification obligation shall be imposed on the monitor. On the basis of the draft law, environmental monitoring is divided into national, local, local and voluntary environmental monitoring. The main part of the monitoring of the state of the environment is carried out by national environmental monitoring under the national environmental monitoring programme. The programme must be long-term in order to have a long-term series of data for substantive environmental assessments, modelling and monitoring of trends. In the event of the entry into force of the Act, two regulations will be introduced: 'Procedures for the implementation of the national environmental monitoring programme and sub-programmes' and 'Procedures for the designation and protection of the national environmental monitoring station and site'. In conclusion, the new law will clarify the organisation of environmental monitoring as a whole, which will provide an opportunity to reduce duplication of activities and better coordinate activities between ministries. It will be possible to take better account of local circumstances and natural environments and to regulate environmental protection according to national needs. The use of environmental status monitoring results in assessing the state of the living environment and ecosystems and services will become more accurate and targeted, and knowledge-based environmental status assessments will help to curb intensive human activities that would otherwise jeopardise the stability of the living environment, human health and well-being. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U377	There are questions for the originator. Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U378	Minister, thank you very much. I think one of the charms of both nature conservation and environmental protection and monitoring is 'inclusion'. A local person is, in fact, the best spotter and protector of the living environment. You mentioned inclusion once, but what is behind this word really in this law? Why don't you give me an example?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U379	Thanks! It is possible, for example, to carry out voluntary environmental monitoring. Paragraph 12 of this Act describes how it should operate. Certainly, setting up an environmental monitoring station on someone's immovable property could also be a reasonable source of cooperation, not of any kind of template.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U380	Thank you, Minister. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. The Rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment is Rein Ratas, Vice-Chairman of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U381	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu! The Committee on the Environment discussed the draft Environmental Monitoring Act 100 at its two meetings on 16 and 19 November. a. Margit Martinson, Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Environment, Marko Lelov and Monitoring Adviser Reet Talkop were invited to the meeting. A number of issues related to this draft law were discussed at length and in depth in the Commission. First of all, is this law even necessary? After all, the current law only began to live 16 years ago. But time has really moved on and brought about changes, as Mr Minister has just said. A number of questions at Commission meetings arose that the codification of environmental law is intended to avoid duplication and thus the competences of different laws are more specific or better separated. The Environmental Monitoring Act also includes references to the Law Enforcement Act under which certain activities are regulated. In the area of this sub-topic, questions related to the procedure for sanctioning infringements of monitoring equipment. It was clarified that the Penal Code already contains provisions on the basis of which such unlawful acts are covered by the law in force as a misdemeanour and need not be repeated again. In addition, a fine has been imposed in the draft law for failure to notify an environmental hazard or significant disturbance. This is not the case in the current law; there is simply an obligation to provide information in relation to environmental monitoring. A serious discussion was raised by § 22 of the draft law on the obligation to tolerate an environmental monitoring station or area. The Environmental Monitoring Act, as the Honorable Minister for the Environment has just mentioned, lays down provisions on compensation for the owner of an immovable property if he is in any way directly harmed by environmental monitoring or the repair or renovation of a monitoring station. However, it is precisely in § 22 that the owner of the immovable property is subject to the obligation to withstand a monitoring station and a monitoring area, if that area or station existed before the first blockage of the immovable property. Such areas are in the private land of the circa 360. However, there is no word in the law as to whether the State, as a monitor and owner of these monitoring stations and sites, is obliged to pay compensation to the owner of the immovable property, whether for loss of income or simply for land tax. This obligation does not exist for the State. However, the Commission considered that this was not right and that both parties should be equal. Where one has a farming obligation, the other, in this case the State, should be obliged to pay compensation under the current legal order. But this procedure also needs to be shown in the Environmental Monitoring Act, so the Commission found. According to the draft, environmental monitoring is divided into national, local and voluntary monitoring. However, there is no company monitoring of the list. Why? The representatives of the Ministry of the Environment explained that this monitoring is carried out under the Industrial Emissions Act. However, it was found at the meetings of the Commission that the Environmental Monitoring Act must make a reference to the Industrial Emissions Act, on the basis of which the monitoring of the company is carried out in Estonia on a quite large scale. At the meeting of the committee, it was unanimously decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 25 days of this month, to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped, to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft be set at 9 December at 4 p.m. and to appoint a rapporteur for the draft. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U382	There are questions for the Commission rapporteur. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U383	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! It is a pleasure to see the bill speak to a person who knows the subject to a level of detail. What grade do you give now as the former chancellor of the Ministry of the Environment? And tell me, fool, what is this voluntary surveillance I'm supposed to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U384	First, a little adjustment. Unfortunately, I don't know anything about this bill, not to mention this bill, but I do a little bit, yes. If you ask for a grade in a five-ball system, I'd give that bill a grade of four. Now I will answer your question about voluntary monitoring: this does not have to be done. This law doesn't make any sense either. But voluntary surveillance can be done, like, if I'm not mistaken, good Peter, you pierced the birds willingly years ago. At least it was very fashionable in its time, it was volunteering, and perhaps even now. Voluntary monitoring can be carried out, and if interested parties want to do so, there is a procedure for doing so. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U385	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U386	Mr Rein Ratas! It is always a pleasure to enjoy your speeches because of their philosophical content. I welcome this draft for linguistic reasons, as the word'station' in the Mongol language continues to live in Estonian, which originally meant the postal station. Unfortunately, in many areas, the word has been rejected, but it is said that language is the best keeper of tradition. I was also very interested in voluntary monitoring. I own several properties, and I'm interested in how it happens. Can any man and woman set up a monitoring station on their property or send a drone over their property and monitor them? What about these surveillance data? Is this content in the bill open?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U387	Well, as far as the drone is concerned, as far as I think it is known, it has its own regulations, which are not laid down either in the text or in the context of the Environmental Monitoring Act. However, voluntary monitoring is the case, as has already been said in reply to Mr Ernitsa's question, that it does not have to be done, but can be done. This may be done by a private, legal or natural person, as well as by a public body, at its own request and at its own expense, for its own use. If the volunteer monitor wishes to have his or her monitoring data entered the environmental register, he or she must state whether he or she would, and if so to what extent he or she would agree to the disclosure of these monitoring data collected voluntarily. So there are two phases of voluntary environmental monitoring. First, if I want to do this, I will. Secondly, I can keep this data only to myself, but if I want to, I can still give it to my dear homeland, Estonia, so that they can be used alongside the environmental monitoring data of the national and local authorities. Then I have to agree that my monitoring data may be entered in the environmental register. I also need to clarify whether I agree with their full or partial disclosure. It's regulated.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U388	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U389	Good manager! Good waitress! At a late hour, one more question for you as a specialist. Tell me where the shoe most squeezed, that now, 11 years later, with this law, I would stress that there is going to be a law in my law, not a law under the Euro Directive. I've read the bill, but tell me where the shoe squeezed the most to come out of the new law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U390	I guess it's a good thing the Environment Minister isn't here anymore and he can't hear me, but when the shoe squeezed, it squeezed the Ministry of the Environment. I don't know either foot or just one leg. I can only guess where it squeezed or where it was squeezed. Obviously, the reason is the long-standing codification of environmental law, which has shown that a relatively compact and short environmental monitoring law is appropriate. Obviously, the time has come when all this should be done in the context of the codification of environmental law, in the light of what has been done and what is still to be done. It's not very labor-intensive. I think that's where the shoe might have squeezed, not from there in Brussels, it didn't come from a squeeze or anything else. But that's my opinion. There was no mention of this at the meetings of the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-25_U391	Thank you. There are no further questions for the Commission rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. First reading of bill 100 is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 p.m. on 9 December. The sitting is adjourned. Whoever wants to go willingly to follow who wants to do something else. Closure of the sitting at 8:45 a.m.
