ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Please, let's do the presence check! There are 57 members of the Riigikogu, no 44. The Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Rannar Vassilyev, Minister of Health and Labour, and Arto Aas, Minister of State Administration participate in today's briefing from the Government of the Republic. Last day, 16 members of the Riigikogu expressed their wish to ask a question in Question Time. In this regard, today's Question Time is such that a person who is registered yesterday can ask an additional question and another person in the Chamber can ask one question, otherwise we will not get anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U2	Let's go! The first questioner is Andres Herkel, and the question is for Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! Your plan to take money to the state budget by raising excise duties on fuel to honour your election promises has received a completely extraordinary criticism in society. This has also been criticised by your coalition partners, as well as by former and current Members of the Reform Party. My question is: what conclusions has the government drawn from this criticism? Why don't you give us an overview of yesterday's study session that the media have been talking about? Which options are under consideration, what are the differences of opinion? How do you assess the foolish situation in which you are going to deal with the tax increase that no coalition party raised before the elections? There has been no such talk in pre-election promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U4	Thank you. There have been many kinds of criticisms. There has been a great deal of substantive criticism and arguments. For example, it has been said that if we raise excise duties on fuel too quickly, there is a risk of border trade: if, by chance, Latvia does not have to increase the excise duty at all, then not only long-distance drivers, but also others would buy more fuel from Latvia. Such circumstances must, of course, be taken into account before a decision is taken, and these analyses have been carried out. At the same time, unfortunately, there has also been such a rather vague and sometimes even personal criticism, and that is why, frankly, I am quite sad. I fully understand that even if the price of fuel increases by 4 to 5% under excise duty, about 5 cents a year, even this relatively small increase in prices can cause people to be dissatisfied. But it is certainly not a reason to claim that everything else in Estonia must be left in stasis and that is the only question that characterises Estonia's life. I am also a little surprised that all the arguments put forward to protect the environment have been laughed out with a loud voice, although we cannot deny that, now that there is the cheapest petrol in Estonia all over Europe, we also have the most polluting car park. You shouldn't really ignore that either.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U5	Thank you. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U6	Thank you. Prime Minister! You did not answer the question to the party concerning the fact that you did not speak of any such tax increase before the elections. Election promises and their cover should be balanced from the outset. You have obviously given false hopes to the Estonian electorate. How do the coalition's parties now intend to explain to the voters that there is a sharp increase in fuel prices, but the other way round, the parties will not miss the huge amount of money from the state budget that you are probably going to cover your debts taken up in the run-up to the elections? Is this not a huge gap between principles and the kind of solidarity that society should show in such cases?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U7	The year-on-year increase in alcohol and tobacco prices in the shop has become obvious to us, although it is not in the party programmes. We have reached a common consensus that this is a health-damaging commodity and a health-damaging commodity, just as the previous government has already confirmed in the Green Papers on alcohol and tobacco policy, it must not become cheaper in the shop than in other goods. It needs to be more expensive than overall inflation. And preferably alcohol and tobacco could become more expensive when people's wages are rising, we must also bear in mind public health, people must not become more accessible, rather the opposite. That is why there is hope that consumption will decrease. As far as motor fuels are concerned, there have been times, I remember, it was about eight years ago when there was a green party as a new force in this Parliament, when it was discussed very sharply how much fossil fuels it would be appropriate to consume in Estonia. Then, by the way, quite a sharp increase in excise duty followed. It was said that there is also an environmentally harmful element involved in the consumption of motor fuel. At the moment, this side has been completely excluded in this whole public debate. An increase of 4 to 5% has been highlighted, which, by the way, is a smaller change than the price volatility at the gas station nearest to my home in the last ten days. Still, it is as if the main issue of Estonia's life. There's probably a political campaign back here, so we all know where it came from.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U8	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U9	Thank you. Prime Minister! These rapid analyses by your advisors, how much life, services and everything else will be more expensive with the rise in excise duties on fuel, are, to put it mildly, very flattered. It has certainly not been taken into account that many people are going to refuel in the nearest countries, especially long-distance drivers, of course. We have the example of Lithuania, where after the increase in excise duty, fuel was bought from Latvia, Kaliningrad, Poland and many others. I'm asking you now, don't you think that the whole people are against this decision right now? There are entrepreneurs, there are also conflicting voices in your coalition and there are opposition to the press. And history shows that if the press is against, there's no long party.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U10	When there is a public debate in society with arguments about how to implement one or the other change, respect must be given, not said that it is opposition. It's not like if there's a debate, then there's nothing you can do. I consider the argumentated part of this debate to be very important, and it seems to me that it is also possible to draw certain conclusions from this debate. However, if we are to see that the neighbouring countries do not increase excise duty for several years, then of course we must have flexibility. Although I deeply doubt that, let us assume that Latvia will not change its excise policy for long years, that Latvia will not increase its excise duty and will make a complete exception. Of course, we'll have to see if we have any alternative sources of cover. However, as far as long-distance drivers are concerned, if they were to act rationally, they would have had to buy fuel from Latvia yesterday at five o'clock, certainly not from Latvia, but from Tallinn. Eight cents, even more, is currently the difference between Latvia's price level. This eight cents is considerably more than the effect of an increase in excise duty. But what is interesting, of course, and which is also worth paying attention to and asking for an explanation from different fuel chains is that in Valka city and also in Valga city, the price of fuel is considerably more expensive than in many of Tallinn gas stations. Also in Tallinn gas stations, the price difference between different chains at filling stations is sometimes eight euro cents on the same day, which is more than one and a half times more than the impact of the increase in excise duty. So already, some people are able to buy fuel much more cheaply than most gas stations are selling. Eight cents is a pretty big difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U12	The next question is answered by Minister of State Administration Arto Aas, the question is asked by Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U13	Hello! Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Minister! I have a question about the Estonian public sector car park. We have a relatively poor overview, so maybe you can enlighten us on how many vehicles the public sector has at all. I am not just talking about ministries, I am also thinking about departments and the whole public sector, for example public institutions. How many of them are paid a special preferential tax, i.e. how many of them are allowed for personal use? Is it possible to make a distinction between the number of specifically targeted vehicles, such as operational and other specialised vehicles, and the number of ordinary passenger cars used to run everyday activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U14	Thank you, good questioner! There were quite a few questions that it is difficult to answer in detail in two minutes, but it can certainly be done later in writing. The Estonian Taxpayers' Association has carried out an analysis of one of the passenger cars, but of course the state also has an overview of how many cars and other vehicles there are. In the analysis by the Taxpayer Association, this figure was 2907. According to the Road Administration, they are 3201, as trailers, water vehicles, etc. have also been taken into account. It all depends on what we compare and what methodology we use. It can be said with calm heart that most of these vehicles are used to provide public services. If we take 3,000 cars in size, nearly 800 of this park will be at the disposal of the police and border guards. The Rescue Board has 198, the Defence Forces 180, the Defence League 265, the Road Administration 199, the Tax and Customs Board 124, the Environmental Board 138, etc. These are not ordinary desk officials or top officials who drive state-owned cars around, but are people who provide public services and serve the country. In advance, I will also say in such a brief way, giving a brief overview, that the ministries have 5 to 6 cars running from the centre, so that the ministry's car park is quite small.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U15	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U16	I'll be more specific. I would still like to ask again how much the special preferential tax will be paid and, secondly, when the data will be from.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U17	At the moment, I am indebted to the answer, but we can send you precise details of the special preferential tax later in writing. The data is certainly there, clear regulations and procedures exist how this tax is to be paid. So we will answer in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U18	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U19	Thank you. Dear Minister, Your statistics were interesting to listen to, but this, of course, goes very seriously against what the media have published. If you pick up today's pages, we will see that not only will personal trips be driven by commercial cars, but also private car trips will be paid out. And here's my question: is there going to be a proper inspection of the use of a professional car park, just as you started to control the entrepreneurs, and for God's sake, they're not standing in a car park or shopping for their milk and bread? Shouldn't the same be done with the ministries' cars and yours, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U20	There will certainly be a more in-depth analysis, not only of the use of cars, but of the entire cost of organising the work of public authorities. We'll prepare this analysis and when it's done, we'll get a complete picture. However, it is certainly not right to say superficially that it is always wrong to compensate for the work done by a private car. This can be a much more favourable solution for the state than buying professional cars that must be maintained at all times. I believe that certain flexibility and common sense are certainly welcome. What I would also like to refer to is that there is a clear sentence in this same taxpayers' union review that it is good to see that the state is managing more and more economically. I hope that's the trend, but I'm sure there'll be a more detailed review. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U22	The next question is to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, the question is asked by Kadri Simson. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U23	Thank you. Dear Taavi in the garment! After the elections, the government coalition you run has surprised people with tax increases that were not discussed before the elections. It has created strong opposition and, in some ways, overshadowed the tax increases of your previous government. I would like to remind you that last summer you also pushed the tax rise through here, and that is why, from the day after tomorrow, 1 May, those people who heat their homes with fuel oil will be subject to three and a half times higher excise duties. At present, the price of light fuel oil is subject to an excise duty of EUR 110,95 per 1000 litres, from the day after tomorrow to EUR 392,92. Based on the current wholesale prices of Neste Eesti AS, users of oil heating will have to accept an increase of around 46% from the day after tomorrow. Why do you pursue such a policy, and why do you think winter heating is a luxury and vice in Estonia that must be taxed higher?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U24	Taking into account the tax policy of the previous government as a whole and of the government that has now taken office, this is a shift in the tax burden from labour taxes, which have fallen and are now falling in the previous government's time, to the taxation of harmful consumption. Heating with light fuel fuel is one of the most polluting types of heating at all, and it is also one of the most expensive for the consumer. KredEx measures have been introduced to enable people to use both environmentally and wallet-friendly types of heating to cover a substantial part of the investment that goes into purchasing a more financially and environmentally sustainable fireplace. The fraction of this will be paid by KredEx. I call on all those who have not yet applied for KredEx support to do so, because, on average, in a few years, this change will, of course, depend on the size of a particular household, especially if a significant part of the cost is borne by the state. Our tax policy, which aims to shift the tax burden from taxation of people's incomes, especially to taxation of consumption harmful to health and also to the natural environment, is not at all random. It has been an informed choice, and it has been a policy for years in order for society to be healthier and people's incomes to be higher.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U25	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U26	Thank you. Dear Taavi in the garment! Minister of Finance Sven Sester allegedly came out yesterday at the meeting of the Cabinet with a proposal not to increase VAT on hotels, as well as an increase in excise duties on fuel in 2019. I have an even better idea for you: this can be canceled and any increase in excise duties on fuel can be canceled if you give up the social tax reduction that no company will appreciate after the news about the increase in excise duties on fuel, which will put additional pressure on the social system. How do you feel about the proposal of the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U27	I am very surprised that you take the right to speak on behalf of entrepreneurs. We know that both the Confederation of Employers and the Chamber of Commerce have stressed in their letters, as well as in the articles of the leading daily newspapers, that under no circumstances should the reduction of labour taxes be ridiculed. Every percentage in the right direction is a very important step to make Estonia's economic environment more competitive, so that more investment is needed in Estonia to increase people's incomes. The Chamber of Commerce represents thousands of companies together, and if the head of the Chamber of Commerce writes a very comprehensive letter to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, which he begins with a statement that it is very important that labour taxes are falling, then I trust that much more as the voice of entrepreneurs than your relatively naked statement. Lowering labour taxes not only has the effect of keeping more money in people's hands. There is also a fundamental effect on the economy, which will allow incomes to rise for a longer period of time. As far as the possibilities of meeting the sources of coverage are concerned, this must naturally be analysed. We see this risk that if Latvia decides not to increase excise duty for any reason, it would indeed be too burdensome to increase excise duty on fuel in Estonia in 2019, and that is why we are looking for an alternative in order not to increase excise duty on fuel in 2019 and make it a half step backwards. We are also very seriously considering the Chamber of Commerce's proposal to phase out the VAT benefit for hotels. Whether we succeed will depend very much on the alternative sources of cover. We're working on it, but it must be very premature to give a draft today.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U28	Thank you. Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! At a meeting with the people in Põlva last week, I was approached by an entrepreneur, one of the director of the pensioner, and spoke about the same reduction in social tax by 1%, as well as other government plans, such as changes in VAT on accommodation facilities. With a reduction in social tax, this company will win EUR 400 per year, but with the cancellation of VAT, it will lose nearly EUR 10000 per year. So this win is a minus sign, or actually a loss. Is it being business-friendly and face-to-face by the government, or do you not think it is?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U30	A quick calculation says that for this company you have referred to, the Labour Fund is only twice as much as the fuel consumption, i.e. for every 100 euros paid for wages, this company will, according to you, spend 50 euros on fuel. I think it's worth overcalculating, so I guess it's a little inaccurate. [[There's talk in the hall, there's no word.]] How? You're talking about abolishing the VAT concession for a boarding house? Okay, well, then I misunderstood your question. At the moment, we are analysing the possibility of eliminating the VAT credit, which also extends to accommodation establishments, gradually, so that these companies do not have to take too steep steps in one year. At the same time, however, we must take into account that, in general, all Estonian companies, no matter what area they operate, whether they are food producers, be they farmers, pay the same amount of VAT. In the case of accommodation establishments, the VAT rate is more favourable, which means that all other companies indirectly subsidise entrepreneurship in this sector. And it must be assessed very soberly whether the subsidy paid to the state by 22 to 25 million per year is feasible for us, or whether we are able to abolish it immediately, or whether we are able to do as the Chamber of Commerce has proposed in order to move gradually towards an equal tax rate for everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U32	The next question is for Rannar Vassilyev, Minister of Health and Labour. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. In recent years, very much has been said about active ageing. In the middle of the month, the European Commission and the UN index, which measure older people's activity in the wider cultural and everyday life of society, was published, does not only look at occupational activity. Estonia stands out as having a high employment rate for older people; unfortunately, our other figures are among the latter. No participation in social life, no access to treatment including dental care, no security, poor physical and mental health. There is a very fragmented approach to older people's policies in Estonia; there is no overall picture, although this is an area that needs strategic governance across sectors and policies. The demographic situation is known to affect our present and future, especially health and labour policies. Do you have a plan to address these challenges in a comprehensive manner? The coalition agreement only contains fragments.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U34	Indeed, this study was published and, briefly, it was also referred to in relation to your question. Yes, Estonia stands out positively by the fact that we have older people relatively busy with work, in which we are the second most after Sweden. Other indicators, such as health status or active participation in society, are worse. The latter, for example, reflects volunteering and, to deny it, participation in politics, where our elderly people pass on their experience less than it is common in other European Union countries. And with regard to women, this situation is particularly critical. I fully agree that the issue must be dealt with in a cross-cutting way. It is certainly not right to say that this is specifically the responsibility of a minister. That is why we have developed an active ageing agenda, which is now being integrated into the social security, inclusion and equal opportunities agenda, which has been carried out for the period from 2016 to 2023. In addition, we have an old-age policy committee, which is a committee that advises ministers, and certainly ministers, I presume, have listened and will continue to listen to this advice. On 38 pages of the Coalition Agreement, we did not have time to write down all the issues that are important to us, but the active ageing of the elderly is certainly one of the issues we are dealing with. We are actively and certainly cross-cuttingly dealing with this, which is what the development plan is for.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U35	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U36	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. We really do have an active ageing agenda. Unfortunately, however, this development plan has no agenda or financial resources, which means that we have a document that is actually difficult to implement. But I'll come back to employment for a second. Yes, the employment rate is really high, but it turns out that 80% of our elderly people are working not because they really want it, but only because they cannot cope differently in life. Only 8% would like to work. In fact, many older people cannot work because their health is poor because of an accident at work or an occupational disease or other chronic illness. For years, there has been talk of the need to develop insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases, that is, TRUE, and for years, words have allowed this, but we have not really gone beyond that. Is this time the plan to move forward with TRUDE and finally reach the finish line to prevent inability to work, illness, incompetence and even death?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U37	Indeed, we have a high employment rate for older people compared to other countries, and this employment rate has increased compared to previous years. Yes, of course there are several reasons. There are certainly older people who are willing to work, but there are also older ones who work because their economic situation is better than not working. So there are certainly both factors involved. Perhaps it is positive that our elderly people have been implemented in the labour market, in other words, they also have what to offer to society, to employers. And employers have also wanted to make more use of their experience and knowledge than in other European Union countries. I think it's definitely a value in itself. As far as insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases is concerned, we have indeed received a letter to the Coalition Agreement and, without doubt, the government currently in office will deal with it. Surely this is an important issue. However, it needs technical solutions, which are likely to be reached when the draft has been drawn up, passed the round of coordination and finally reached this Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U38	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Numerous meetings with older people have often asked when the year of work is equal to the pension year. We know that, until 31 December 1998, the pension was paid for years worked or treated as such. From 1 January 1999, the basis for payment of the pension was changed and the term 'insurance share' was introduced. This means that the pension insurance period and the insurance unit were calculated to a pension insurer who has paid the social tax since 1 January 1999 or for whom the employer has paid the social tax. My question: has the government discussed changing the formula for calculating an unfair pension? It is known that wages in rural areas are very low and therefore social tax for these people is also low? People have come to the conclusion that in three years it will be possible to earn one pension year. And the second question: how would a reduction in social tax of 1% affect the amount of pensions?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U40	I am not the right minister to answer these questions in terms of responsibility in this area, but I am trying to make a contribution. I'll start at the back. As far as 1% is concerned, it has been agreed that this 1% will not come from health care or pension insurance. This is also the reason why the coalition has agreed on sources of cover that should cover 1% of it. If this were to happen at the expense of health care or pension insurance, there would be no reason to talk about the sources of coverage to this extent. So before this draft comes to this Parliament, and even before it reaches the government, there must be a calculation method for ensuring, either in health care or in pension insurance, that the principle under which health insurance or pension insurance has been calculated remains the same, regardless of whether the basis is 1% higher or less social tax. In short, either health insurance or pension insurance, it will not be covered by a 1% reduction in social tax. As regards the calculation of the pension, it is very simplified: if this part of the pension, which is currently calculated on the basis of the amount of social tax paid on a person compared to the average social tax of the state, if this coefficient were the same for all, it would mean that pensioners who worked for the same period would receive the same pension. As far as I know, there is no country in the world where it is. If anyone has any other information, they can share it. This would mean that pensions would be essentially the same in Estonia, regardless of the previous salary of the person.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U42	The next question is to Minister Arto Asa, asked Raivo Põldaru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. In July 2013, after learning about a major US intelligence program, Angela Merkel said that Germany was not a tracking state. And now there is a decision coming from the same Europe that, from the beginning of 2018, vehicles will be equipped with equipment to locate the car. In the light of this information, how do you feel about it, and how does it go with Estonian laws?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U44	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I am under certain structural units in the Ministry of the Interior and some structural units in the Ministry of Finance, but I am sad to report that data protection issues are not part of my administration. We have such a fine minister in the government as Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice. Its administrative and responsibilities include data protection issues. As far as the substance of the question is concerned, it may also have to do with the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I think you will get a more precise and better answer if you ask the Minister for Justice or the Minister for Economic Affairs next time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U45	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U46	The next question is for Rannar Vassilyev, Minister of Health and Labour. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. In the previous Parliament as well as in previous formations, the Centre Party has applied for the full ban on alcohol advertising, both in the media and in the public space. Before the elections, I read the Socialist Election Platform, where the Social Democrats promise that we will reduce alcohol consumption in general and ban alcohol advertising in public places and the media. I read that the Centre Party has found a partner in this matter. The faction of the Centre Party will certainly also come up with a draft to ban alcohol advertising. Will the Social Democratic Party and, more broadly, the Government of the Republic, of which you are a member, support the Central Party draft or will you prevent us and come up with a bill that would ban alcohol advertising completely, as it is in most countries of the European Union, including our neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U48	Thank you. Without a bill, I'm certainly not gonna give up a bill of lading here, especially on behalf of the government. Yes, the coalition agreement does contain specific measures that are planned to be taken in order to significantly reduce alcohol consumption in Estonia. The aim is to achieve double the current level of alcohol consumption by 2030, i.e. half of what it is now. It certainly also needs additional measures. One thing that has been agreed is, for example, that lifestyle advertising will be banned in the future, or that clear requirements will be set for what is allowed to be displayed in advertising and what is prohibited. As far as I know, France, for example, has gone the same way. What is to deny here is that very many Member States of the European Union have not come this far. Nearer countries where alcohol advertising is completely banned, I don't know. There is, as far as I know, no country in the European Union where it is completely forbidden. However, I do know of a country that is not part of the European Union in our continent, where it is completely forbidden. However, we are certainly moving towards making these ads significantly less attractive. This is, for example, one way to reduce alcohol consumption, in addition to excise policy. This is one place where Estonia does not look very good compared to other countries, i.e. how much alcohol we consume per capita.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U49	Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I'll help you. Lithuania is one of the neighbouring countries where alcohol advertising was banned a few years ago. From the promises made to the voters before the elections, I also read that the aim is to reduce the total consumption of alcohol per capita. Indeed, I agree with you that about 11 litres of strong alcohol per person per year is too much. It is not just a question of drinking a lot of alcohol, but of health problems, road deaths and all that. You propose on your platform that the availability of alcohol should be significantly reduced. I also welcome this point very much. What do you mean by this point, and what do you intend to do as a socialist minister in this area, so that there are fewer places where you can get alcohol?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U51	Thank you. First of all, a correction. This figure, which reflects per capita consumption, does not depend on whether alcohol is strong or lean, but is an absolute number per 100% alcohol. There are no separate statistics for countries on how much strong and how much lean alcohol is given. As studies show, there is no difference in health as to the exact form in which alcohol is used. But in order to limit the availability of alcohol, we have had an issue. The ability to buy alcohol for a person is certainly affected by the availability. It certainly depends on the excise policy, how much the price is rising. The measures implemented by the countries are diverse. In general, it tends to be argued that in reality price policies are the most effective of them. This is the kind of picture that tends to be in different countries. So I think we should move on with the excise rise policy. This is not justified in any way by the fact that alcohol duty increases less than the average income, as alcohol in real terms would then become more available to people in terms of price. The current coalition will certainly continue to limit the availability of alcohol.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U52	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. According to the current development plan of Ida-Viru County, the number of people who regularly consume alcohol in the county is lower than the average in Estonia. Despite this, Ida-Virumaa has a lifetime of 48.4 years without restrictions on the health of people, while the Estonian average is 54.1 years. The number of people with disabilities has increased steadily between 2009 and 2012. Do you support the idea that some separate decisions on Ida-Viru County medicine could be made, for example, as is currently the case in some areas of protection in Ida-Viru County, where some employees are paid extras? Could the same be done in the medical field?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U54	Thank you. As regards statistics on Ida-Virumaa, for example, alcohol consumption and the number of healthy years of living there compared to the Estonian average, there are certainly many more components that affect the number of healthy years of life than only alcohol consumption, which of course also contributes to the health of people. Undoubtedly, what is to be denied here is an extremely important environmental topic in Ida-Viru County. All occupational diseases, accidents at work, etc. that have already been mentioned today also have an impact on statistics. So this is a subject that needs to be looked at in a much wider way. With regard to the specific differences in this county, they have not been agreed at the moment. However, if there are reasonable ideas on how to help improve the situation, we are undoubtedly prepared to deal with them and we would be happy to listen to them more specifically.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U55	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U56	Next, a question for Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Three weeks ago, when you introduced the coalition agreement in this very hall, you said that the great challenge of your government is to ensure the growth of the Estonian economy and that you place considerable emphasis on the development of entrepreneurship in local governments to curb marginalization. How does the intention of the government union to increase the VAT rate on accommodation services, whether in one nasty or gradually, contribute to achieving these right goals? Your argument today that this is fair to the rest of the business, however, sounds, I apologise, a little hollow and has not been widely accepted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U58	Thank you. If we look at areas where Estonia has a preferential VAT rate or where we have historically decided to introduce an advantage, there are not many. There are medicines for which it can be said that this is the fairest VAT advantage. After all, the most people who consume medicines are those who are sick, who really need them, and the fact that their price is cheaper is justified. There are newspapers, although it can theoretically be argued whether there should be a VAT concession for newspapers or whether they should be treated in the same way as all other goods. I believe that there will certainly be a dispute about this in Parliament also during its membership. There are books for which there have also historically been disputes, whether it would be more advantageous and reasonable to support Estonian literature directly, for example, or more widely, Estonian literature, including children's literature, to direct all the money there. At present, a very large part of this advantage goes to support translation literature and the issuance of books that do not necessarily require taxpayers' support. After all, these discussions have been carried out by Parliament's previous formations a great many times. There has also been a lot of discussion about whether hotels are the economic sector that needs to be subsidised most in Estonia. Different conclusions have been drawn. It has been said that more than half of the beneficiaries of this advantage are, in fact, tourists who would come here even if the price were some euro more expensive, so that we would be able to get this advantage from tourists. There have been different opinions. I believe that if we could move forward towards abolishing this advantage in the way that the Chamber of Commerce has proposed, i.e. that there should be no one-off price shocks, then ultimately the whole of society would benefit from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U59	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! One of the most popular words of your government agreement is 'explore' and 'analyze' and today you have promised to further analyse this issue. What analyses and studies do you intend to order from and from? After all, a study by the Institute of Economics last year on the same subject does not support your plan, but claims that raising VAT does not necessarily bring more money to the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U61	Thank you. The Conjuncture Institute has conducted a survey among hotels, which is perhaps an exaggeration. However, of course, the Ministry of Finance will have to carry out analyses, and if necessary, they will also order from external partners. At the beginning of this week, the Ministry of Finance had representatives of interest groups, business representatives, as well as representatives of the Parliament. This issue was discussed at the level of arguments, not taken emotionally in any way, but still trying to find reasonable solutions. After all, we have to take into account that the abolition of the VAT concession for hotels is not something of itself. In the same order of magnitude, i.e. 22 to 25 million a year, depending on what year we are talking about, the total cost of children's round money. With this money, more children would be able to engage in activities of interest and go around. The same amount also includes the money for the creation of a single parents' livelihood fund, even more so, it also includes a very important increase in the subsistence limit in order to improve the economic performance of those who need the most economic support from the state in Estonia. The choices that exist before each government are never such that there is only a good and very good solution. We must be able to prioritise who needs more money in this case, whether for those who are hotel owners or for single parents, for children who are unable to go around for economic reasons, or for people who are beneficiaries of income support. These are rather difficult choices, and this is probably the case for Parliament to assess which option is more appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U62	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U63	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! The rise in excise duties and the special nature of VAT have a very painful impact on the competitiveness of our companies. Above all, we should have money from business. As long as the neighbours use these differences and the excise duties are different, we cannot differ from them. On the basis of this signal that you want to abolish the VAT concession for accommodation establishments, we are expected to lose some 200,000 tourists, and two large projects for investing in hotels and recreation have already been put to a standstill. I'm asking why you're not looking for sources of cover where the money is. For example, in 2013 Estonia had a tax pit of 548 million euros, and between 2000 and 2013 commercial banks earned 2.6 billion euros in profits, of which only 59 million were paid. Why do you put your hand in every ordinary person's pocket? Why don't you take the money where it exists and destroy the competitiveness of businesses?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U64	Thank you. If your argument on competition were true, the current situation would not be exactly what it is. I can give a simple example compared to our southern neighbours. The VAT rate for accommodation establishments in the southern neighbourhood is slightly higher than that in Estonia, while prices are lower than average and tourists, given the size of the country, more than half. Where's the connection? The picture still needs to be looked at a little bigger, and my opinion, which is also based on the assessments of the Ministry of Finance, is that even if you ask tourists for the money lost as a result of the loss of the entire VAT concession of the tourist accommodation company, some euro per hotel room is not enough money to keep tourists from coming to Estonia by hundreds of thousands. I believe that this assessment is very much exaggerated. I remember when we discussed how to fight tax fraud in the fuel business in the previous Riigikogu. It was then that we wanted to introduce, by the way, a guarantee payment for gas stations, on the proposal of the oil union. We remember that there were interest groups who said very loudly throughout the media: if you do, the whole gas station business will die out, especially there will be no gas stations in the future and people will have to start refueling tens of kilometres away. However, we know afterwards that nothing like this happened, on the contrary, 80 million euros more came into the state budget in a year and a half. So I would be extremely careful if someone, as a result of the loss of the advantage that is affecting him, declared the sector's death or the cessation of tourism.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U65	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U66	The next question is for the Minister of State Administration, Arto Asa. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U67	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The Coalition Agreement also mentions the necessity and plan of administrative reform. How many municipalities should remain in Estonia according to the current plan for 2019 and how large should the average population in the average municipality in 2019 be?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U68	Thank you, Honourable Asker. Indeed, the coalition agreement has agreed that the administrative reform will come and put in place the most important principles. However, this approach is not simply such that we first agree on the number of municipalities and then start violently shifting borders. In particular, it has been agreed on the principle that municipalities must be able to provide better quality services, to increase the competitiveness of rural areas, to increase the capacity of local authorities and to do indeed with the tasks and functions that one modern municipality has. It would then also be able to bear in mind the interests of its citizens. So it is not possible to say the number of municipalities or the number of inhabitants at the moment; it should still be revealed in the analysis and its reform. We have agreed that the bill will definitely reach this hall next spring, so that you can adopt the legislation necessary for the administrative reform by midsummer 2016. So the work has now started and all the ideas of the opposition are very welcome. But if you answer more specifically, yes, I can refer to quite a number of studies carried out both at Estonian universities and in other countries, which, as if, reduce the capacity of the municipality to a certain number of residents, which according to one of the last studies by the University of Tartu, is about 5,000. This is the number of scientists proposed, but we are approaching it a little more substantively and from a'second angle', from a service perspective.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U69	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U70	Thank you. You rightly mentioned the importance of the capacity of local authorities, the provision of services, the rational consumption of public resources. Do you also have regional examples of a life in which municipal mergers or voluntary mergers have gone according to expectations? I can give an example of the merger between Tapa and Lehtse rural municipality, where the availability of public services did not improve. Do you have any real, life - taken examples on which you base your claims on how to achieve this goal?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U71	Thank you. I have been assured that most of the mergers of Estonian municipalities have, however, been successful. Indeed, at first it can be uncomfortable, unpleasant, because there are many criticisms and oppositions. During the second electoral cycle, however, things usually fall into place, and in the longer view it can be said that the accession of local governments is a positive result. In individual cases, yes, there are probably different opinions. But we really do not want to propose any very specific framework or template which one municipality needs to be, because the local governments of Estonia are very different. To the end, violently, these differences cannot and cannot be eliminated. The municipalities of Harjumaa are certainly different from the municipalities of South Estonia and islands, not to mention the small islands. So we still want to look at more content and less to follow such fact-based criteria.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U72	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U73	Thank you. Good minister! Please, would you like to introduce what the procedure for the state reform procedure is at all? Unfortunately, the website does not show at all what the administration of the Minister for Public Administration is. I have heard different stories from your party associates, who, where, and what will they do, but when will you come to the political groups to present your area of administration?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U74	Thank you. In general, the principle of which duties the Minister of Public Administration is engaged is fixed, but we also bring to the Riigikogu amendments to the Government of the Republic Act and hope that the Riigikogu will be able to accept them before the big summer holiday. We are now preparing these amendments on the fast track, and then, of course, I will be able to introduce a specific draft and division of tasks in this Chamber. But using the time that is now given to me, it can well be said that the task of the Minister of Public Administration is to direct the Ministry of the Interior in a field that deals with regional issues. In the past, this work has been carried out by the Minister for Regional Affairs and, for example, by county governments, and includes all the work carried out on administrative reform. The other half of my work belongs to the Ministry of Finance, where I am physically located. Come visit, Endla 13th Street. The roof's gonna blow through and the wind's gonna blow through the window, but we're gonna make it. At the Ministry of Finance, I run those units that deal with state property, public service, state property and, among other things, local government financing. On the basis of these two ministries' two structural units, this one ministerial portfolio has been carried out with very clear tasks and objectives. If we do this job with you, maybe in four years, I'll lock the door, put the light out, and there's no more work to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U75	I will conclude on this issue. There's 25 seconds left to the end of Question Time, no one can ask for anything in that time, not to mention the answer. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U76	The session of the fourth working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu begins on Wednesday. Who has to hand over drafts or inquiries? Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U77	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture will initiate a draft law supplementing the Adult Education Act, repealing the Adult Education Act in force since 1 July 2015, as from that date the new Adult Training Act will enter into force. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U78	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U79	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll hand over the draft decision. This is the decision of the Riigikogu to appoint a representative of Estonia to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee. According to § 2 (3) of the Agreement between Estonia, Iceland, Lithuania, Latvia, Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark concerning the Nordic Investment Bank and § 2 (3) of the Act on the ratification of the Payment Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Nordic Investment Bank, the Riigikogu decides to appoint Estonia as the representative of the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee from 1 June 2015 until 31 May 2016 Remo Holsmer; the decision of the Riigikogu to appoint the representative of Estonia to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee is repealed. The draft is at one reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U80	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U81	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 13 members of the Riigikogu, I will report to the Minister of Social Affairs about the problems related to the reorganisation of the Narva orphanage. Despite the fact that this is a specific subject, we are more interested in the working principles of the Ministry of Social Affairs. We believe that once the plans have been agreed and the agreements have been concluded, but the result is still a situation where children are left without a home for a certain time, and this is due to the failure of the Ministry of Social Affairs, this should be discussed in this Chamber with the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U82	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U83	Honorable Chairman! Riigikogu! I have an inquiry into property reform for Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Once, the property reform was certainly extremely progressive, but then it went purely human trafficking. The first circle was called the heirs of the first circle. If there was anything left to sell, heirs were called to the second round. And if there was anything left to sell, the third circle of heirs was called. I can't remember exactly and I can't count the picnics that were made before the Riigikogu. The state took decisions and privatized. The preservation and treatment of people was left to local governments. As a result, the Tallinn City Housing Fund grew from municipal buildings, social buildings and social economy entities. There are tens of thousands of places like this. I mean, people were taken to the street, basically like a mob war. That time was pretty crazy until the Euro Courts, and unfortunately the country did not always get justice. Here's the question. Due to incorrect implementation of the ownership reform, many households were denied the right to privatise their homes because there was a German, Swedish, Danish or someone else who could own their home, or a mediator and an apartment were bought up. The state of the forced tenant hasn't disappeared yet. People live in social housing built for foreign capital, and there are higher rents. People don't have enough money already, but they have to pay their rent even more. Will they be compensated for rent, allocated money to privatise rentals, bought rents from local governments or then privatized to citizens? Riigikogu, the highest power. Let's decide! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U84	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U85	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, People's ambassadors Adams, Herkel, Ammas, Kübarsepp, Haukanõmm, Talvik, Aru and Lutsepp will present an inquiry to the Minister of Justice regarding a collective appeal to 'Stop the overeating of political parties! '. What happened yesterday in our Committee on Constitutional Affairs was such an unexpected story that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs raised its hands and said that its collective appeal to the Riigikogu could not and would not handle it and otherwise directed it to the Minister of Justice. I cannot fail to state here that the committee was superior to the 4,000 people who sent the collective address to the Riigikogu, as well as to the institution of collective address as such, which, according to me, was the first one to come to the Riigikogu in the first place and to the Riigikogu in which such an idea originated. Finally, it is also a very strange attitude to the Riigikogu when it comes to moving the matter elsewhere. Don't be surprised when we're called the rubber stamp again. In this regard, we have a number of, or seven specific questions to answer to the Minister of Justice. I hope that the fact that the current Minister of Justice was himself more than ten years ago in the process of introducing an unfair system of funding for political parties and that, to our knowledge, the party under his leadership also has large debts which are an appetite for money from the state budget will not prevent him from answering these questions correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-29_U86	I have adopted two drafts and their adoption is decided by the Bureau on the basis of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. If the three enquiries also comply with the requirements of the Home and Working Procedures Act, they shall be forwarded to those to whom they were requested to submit them. These are the messages. As soon as the session is over, the parliamentary group of the Persian Gulf States (Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, United Arab Emirates, Oman), Hannes Hanso, the convener, and the support group for heritage conservation, the convener Mark Soosaar, will start here in the Chamber, and nowhere else, the Estonian-Singapur Parliamentary Group, will start. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 93 members of the Riigikogu are present, no 8. The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 14.11.
