ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-12_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! The Board of the Riigikogu wishes you success in the year that began, of which five working weeks are included in the Riigikogu. There are few working weeks left, but the Bureau is still prepared to adopt drafts and inquiries. The wish to surrender is Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-12_U2	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Have a nice session and a year of work! The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union has good news for the political forces of the Riigikogu. In Parliament's proceedings, we are presenting an important draft law, a draft law amending the Income Tax Act, or the so-called low-wage tax reform. According to this, people whose income in the form of wages or business income is less than 500 euros per month will be exempt from income tax as of 1 January 2016. Anyone earning less than EUR 846 per month will have income tax reduced and this will be achieved by raising the tax-free minimum. We have presented our analysis of the impact of the draft law, and we believe that it is positive, both because of people's income and because of employment growth. We are of the opinion that it is not fair to take away hundreds of euros of income tax from people on low incomes and to redistribute it through subsidies. We realise that the current political reality does not allow this draft to be processed within five weeks to become a law, but we want to give a clear message that we are ready for reform. There is also a law, with explanatory notes and calculations. It is now up to the citizens of Estonia whether they wish to enforce the Act from 1 January 2016 or not. The decision is on 1 March this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-12_U83	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the subject of pupils' school lunch, which has been very much discussed in recent days and which is covered by a lot of media talk. Years ago, the state took an important step and started financing school lunches for middle school students from the state budget. This helped municipalities, many of whom had already tried to ensure that children from underprivileged families, in some cases all children, had once a day a warm meal free of charge. This step has had a clear social and educational impact. Tasty and healthy school food provides children with better learning and health and helps them to cope better with stress. Some times the loss of young people's behavioral disorders and self - control may be caused by an empty stomach. Dinner break is actually an important part of school life. Eating a school lunch together also helps to make the family feel together. School meals have a clear link with children's health, development and also learning outcomes. Last spring's coalition talks reached the understanding that it is high time to ensure equal treatment for schoolchildren and that the country should also support school meals for all upper secondary school students. The amendment, which concerns more than 22000 gymnastics, will apply from January this year and will cost EUR 2.8 million from the 2015 state budget. I would like to make some misconceptions here, and I would also knock a little on the conscience of the local governments. National school lunch allowance is not intended to cover the cost of all school meals, including staff costs. The grant covers most of the school lunch costs and aims to give schoolchildren the opportunity to offer young people a warm meal. It is true that some municipalities can still do so for the support that is being given today. Some municipalities have been securing free school meals for upper secondaryists for years from the city's or rural municipality's budget. It is a great relief for them that, from the beginning, public funding for upper secondary school also came into play. Honour and praise to all those municipalities who consider free school meals for children to be important and contribute to this! Unfortunately, there are municipalities, including, unfortunately, municipalities with a rather large wallet, who have decided that they will not contribute. Therefore, additional money is charged to parents and these amounts are also different across Estonia. In such cases, the decision must be justified on the grounds of the children, parents and residents of their city or municipality. Children's full stomach and healthy school lunch should be the joint care and concern of the state and local governments. I also believe that our schoolgirl should be treated equally. At the same time, it is clear that the current amount of school lunch allowance, 78 cents a day per student, has fallen behind. It is the strong desire of the Socialists to raise support to EUR 1 per day. Finally. The year 2015 began with joy for families. Finally, the support of the first and second children increased almost 2.5 times. Workful and meaningful last weeks of sittings for all colleagues! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-12_U84	The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 4:41 p.m.
