ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Let's start the briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! 52 members of the Riigikogu are present, 49 are missing. The following members of the Government will take part in the Question Hour: Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Enterprise Urve Palo and Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur. Last day, nine members of the Riigikogu announced their wish to ask the question and, based on the experience of the last two briefings, it seems appropriate to me that in addition to those who registered yesterday, who are entitled to one additional question, one additional question can also be submitted from the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U2	Let's go! The first questioner is Mart Helme and the question is for Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U3	Mr President-in-Office and Ministers. As far as we know, the Swiss Confederation is ready to offer Estonia tanks Leopard 2A4, which have been preserved and will remain available in connection with the pooling of arms. Is Estonia ready to accept these tanks? Are you aware of such an offer and opportunity? What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U4	In this form, however, this is a very hypothetical question. I have asked both the Commander of the Defence Forces and the Department of Defense about this. Both confirm that such an offer is not true. It can therefore be said that this is a rumor. And start commenting on the rumor in this hall, I don't think it's appropriate. If you are interested in how Estonian defence policy decisions are made more widely, our defence capacity development will take place within the framework of a long-term development plan. The current development plan is valid until 2022 and provides for the addition of armoured manoeuvring to infantry armored combat vehicles, which is certainly a considerable step forward. The current development plan, i.e. until 2022, does not provide for tank capacity, but it cannot be ruled out that this capacity will be created in Estonia for the next ten years. However, I believe that this requires not only the purchase of tanks and the purchase of them according to our own long-term plan, but also training. This requires a central polygon, which we visited together yesterday with you and other Members of Parliament. Today you can read about the extension of the central polygon in the paper. This too is essential before we can even start talking about our tank capacity. Such steps must be taken first and then it will be possible to talk about it, but still and only on the basis of our own plans, not on the basis that somebody somewhere says they have something left over.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U5	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U6	Thank you. I am, of course, prepared to give you names and telephone numbers as well as other data to contact the Swiss ambassador in Riga, who could give you a little more detail on what Switzerland has to offer in this area. But that's the way I want to ask you about armor. Yesterday we actually visited the polygon. The show was quite impressive, and I am very proud of the excellent preparation of our Defence Forces. But we also saw very clearly that one of the screaming deficiencies we have next to the light-armed infantry is armored. Do we have to follow our long-term plans extremely bureaucraticly? Perhaps we could look for ways to create more quickly armoured capabilities so as not to be completely defenseless when a real battle situation arises?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U7	I'm sure there's a lot of phone numbers I can exchange that I don't mind. But I'm sure you'll agree with me when I say that the time when that kind of arms buy-in is going to be a long way back. There is the Ministry of Defence in Estonia, there is the Defence Forces, they can make these decisions. If someone wants to offer them a deal, their contact details are definitely publicly available. It happens that private companies, as well as countries, offer their own remaining battle vehicles or other weapons. But it's quite the way we can't plan our defenses to gather up everything anyone can and then start thinking about what to do with it. We still create our abilities consciously and systematically. Even if we develop armoured capabilities, things can't work out so we can get a couple of tanks from here and a couple of other types of tanks from there, and then we'll see how they connect. You can't build a modern-day defense force like that. Now for your reply to our big exercise last night. I too am proud of the Estonian Defence Forces. The company, which consisted mainly of conscripts, who did the battle in front of us, did well in its performance. In this particular scenario, the use of armored vehicles was not foreseen. There was a maple from the howitzers, there were handguns, there was an anti-tank weapon, there was a mortar, and it all worked out very well in my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U8	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U9	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! In addition to the fact that we have officials of the Ministry of Defence, we also have a Prime Minister who, at least in theory, is responsible for the security of the Estonian state at the highest level. As far as we know, the Department of Defense has been proposed this way, and you know it hasn't. When the Conservative People's Party said during the election campaign that Estonia must have two armored brigades, or two tank battalions, in the coming years, the Reform Party in particular put a terrible price on this plan, which was in hundreds of millions. Now Switzerland offers relatively modern tanks, I would point out that Finland has the same modern tanks at the cost of hauling away. I ask you clearly now: do you support this idea or do you still stick to the fact that we have a long plan and that we will get these combat vehicles as expensive as possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U10	Your claim that the Republic of Estonia has been offered tanks from Switzerland yesterday I asked both the Commander of the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia for questioning is not true. The chancellor of the Ministry of Defence had a meeting with his Swiss colleague about a month ago, and this topic did not arise there, so let's still consider this as a rumor. However, I think it is very important to remind you of the fact that planning defence capabilities is far from cost-effective. The cost of life-cycle planning of defence capabilities, especially in the case of such extensive arms procurement, will be taken into account. The cost of life cycle is reflected in all the costs incurred during the depreciation period of specific weapons, i.e. in this case tanks, including men's training and manhood, plus very, very many other things. To say that it's possible to transport some functional tanks with a trailer somewhere and that they've been picked up almost free of charge is, to put it mildly, inappropriate. Speaking of plans to develop armoured capabilities, the Republic of Estonia has a specific plan, which has already been formulated as a decision of the previous government, to acquire infantry combat vehicles CV90. These are very considerable reinforcements, and indeed, they provide our 1st Infantry Brigade with capabilities that the unit has not had so far. I certainly do not rule out Estonia being able to acquire tanks in the future. But it doesn't have to be done that somebody has something left over, and then we'll take it all and see what we can do with it. However, a systematic analysis is carried out of what brand to buy at what price and how it can be exploited. This is done systematically.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U11	Thank you, Prime Minister. In two minutes, please respond. I will finish the discussion on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U12	The next questioner is Jüri Adams and the question is to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U13	Mr. Clothes! When Estonia's independence was restored, in the first years, the term 'institution's own revenues' and some fines remained at the disposal, in whole or in part, of the institutions whose officials imposed these fines on people. In the first half of the 1990s, it was possible that you would drive through Estonia by car and probably receive a speeding ticket in one county, as the police house in the first half of the 1990s is being repaired, but no one will probably catch you in another county. The situation that all these incomes went to the state budget ended at some point, but the main political agreement was that the fine money would go to the state with a year's delay so that there would be no pressure to raise a certain amount of money to implement the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U14	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U15	How have we come to a situation where the total amount of fines is important for the revenue of the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U16	Tripes have a dual purpose. Of course, obtaining budget revenue is not the main thing. The main thing is that when we talk about wrong fines, we try to prevent these acts. We expect that fines will also have the effect of people trying to behave in a legitimate way and at least knowingly not breaking the rules. In doing so, we discussed not only how much revenue could be made to the state budget by increasing the daily level of fines. We discussed very thoroughly whether there could be a greater distinction between involuntary and particularly brazen, intentional wrongs in the fine policy, and whether they could be punished much more harshly. One concrete example that we talked about for a very long time is the unauthorized parking of disabled persons. I believe that, as citizens, the sense of justice of all of us has been violated by a picture in which the doors of a large shopping centre are brazenly in front of them, sometimes even look at cars parked in the flood areas of the cross, the drivers of which have no right to do so. We often don't see permission in sight. It is a conscious display of a condescending attitude, as well as courage, which I consider to be completely inappropriate in today's society. In my opinion, the penalty rate for such wrongdoing could increase even more.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U17	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U18	Thank you, Mr. Clothes! I agree with you on most of the questions you have answered. But I have to admit, I was shocked by that answer. I'll check it out again. Am I right in understanding that your government's view is now that the total amount of fines is an important source of income for the state budget and that it is entirely justified to approach this issue from the point of view of the implementation of the state budget as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U19	Sorry, when I answered the previous question, the time was too short and I did not have the opportunity to comment on one part of your question. You said that there was once a proposal that this revenue could somehow be taken into account in the next financial year, that there would be no temptation to raise as much money as possible to implement the state budget. However, this is not technically possible. The State still has an obligation to take account of both revenue and expenditure incurred during a given financial year for that financial year. Of course, the receipt of fines also plays a role in the formation of revenue from the state budget, and no one denies it. At the same time, we still consider that raising the daily penalty rates or increasing the amount of fines will also have a positive effect on compliance. Both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance have shown that if daily rates or fine units grow two and a half times, the arrival rate will not increase at the same speed. There is hope that some people will, however, try to avoid offences, and this in itself is probably very positive for all of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U20	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U21	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! In order to strike a balance between revenue and expenditure, the government has decided to dimm the budget by increasing the level of fines. The national budget should balance the economy. The situation is that our economic growth is currently only 1.2%. The government you run has decided to revive the economy, but you are reviving the economy in a very interesting way. I ask how the rapid increase of excise duties on fuel and the abolition of VAT on accommodation establishments will boost the Estonian economy. Is this a business-friendly measure?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U22	Looking at tax policy a little wider than on your question, shifting the tax burden from labour taxes to harmful consumption will certainly have a positive impact on economic growth. Very different international experts, be it the OECD, be it the European Commission, which is likely to publish the following recommendations to Estonia today, be it a number of other experts who have stressed in their recommendations that the burden of labour taxes should be reduced in Estonia. It helps to increase the competitiveness of the country, it helps to create jobs with higher wages, it leaves more money in the hands of the people. Various proposals have also been made to better target the tax burden. It is strongly recommended that the tax burden be targeted towards reducing harmful consumption, in particular by increasing excise duties on tobacco and alcohol. We know that raising excise duties on tobacco and alcohol is not the main limit of political will, in general, all parties have agreed that these excise duties could increase over time. The border has been the risk of smuggling and border trade. Therefore, we have not been able to increase excise duties on tobacco and alcohol at the rate we would like. But in any case, if possible, the tax burden must be shifted from labour taxation to taxation of harmful consumption on people's incomes. This will undoubtedly have a positive impact on economic growth and is clearly stated in both expert opinions and textbook wisdom.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U23	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U24	The next questioner is Kadri Simson and the question is for the Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U25	Minister of the Interior! You have just chosen Katri Raiki as the new rector of the National Defence Academy. Katri Raik has answered journalists' questions about the future of the Paikuse Police School and said that whether the study of the Estonian National Defence Academy will be concentrated in Tallinn or will remain divided into different areas of Estonia is clearly a political decision. He doesn't make that decision. As his rector, he's just the executioner of the political decision. I guess you're the one who has to make that decision. How do you think the teaching of Paikuse School, the oldest policeman in Estonia since 1990, could be organised over the next four years?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U26	Thank you for your question. Indeed, Katri Raik has been appointed as Rector, he will start his work a little more than a month later. I was in contact with him yesterday, and Katri Raik and I have already had very serious conversations about the future of education at the Academy of Home Affairs. Before we can decide where internal protection education is provided, it is more important to agree on what kind of education is provided. Internally protected education is not only about police training, but also about other areas of public administration related to border guard and rescue training, prison services, the Tax and Customs Board. The Estonian National Defence Academy also provides quite a large amount of further training. So before deciding on the form, you should argue the content. I very much hope that we can agree with the new Rector as well as with the main partners, the Police and Border Guard Board, the Tax and Customs Board, the prison services, the length of police training and the content of its content and other specialties. Then you can analyze how many rooms we need, and then decide on all locations. So right now it's open. I believe that by the end of the year we will be much smarter, then we can bring it up again right here in Question Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U27	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U28	Thank you. Minister of the Interior! On 13 March a general meeting of the Pärnumaa Municipalities Association took place and members of the newly elected Riigikogu were also invited from Pärnumaa. Coalition negotiations had just begun and there were also members of the Riigikogu who came from behind the coalition negotiating table. The chapter on internal security had already been completed and we were told that we were considering the development of the Home House of the Academy of Home Affairs with the support of euro money and the closure of the Paikuse Police School as an additional condition. You can't find it in a coalition agreement. But the rumor is that when the Home House of the National Defence Academy is built, you have to find the resources to support it somewhere, you don't die. In addition, your current party partner, the former Minister of Defence, has already made one effective decision in 2007. He closed down Pärnu's solitary Infantry Battalion, which is why Paikuse Police School is the only internal defence major in the entire West Estonia region. Now I ask you to confirm that when the main building is completed, you will not force the academy's new leadership to make a forced choice and to make regional political closure decisions in the interests of 'internal reserves'.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U29	Thank you. It's getting a little bit like when you buy a tank, you know, like when you say 'women in the sauna', somebody's got some ideas. It is true that we have, of course, discussed how to improve the status of the National Defence Academy. If you look at the technical condition of the main corps on Kase Street, it's under any review, and it's also very inefficiently used. The rooms there are not used efficiently. I'm sure you've been there and you know how inefficient this house is in terms of its use right now. We have agreed with the Ministry of Education and Research that the amount that we can count on to fix the Kase Street complex under the higher education funding measure is EUR 15 million plus co-financing. That's the real estate side. But once again, talking about learning content is much more important. Coming to the Pärnu battalion, it's a good thing you brought this up. In the real estate plan of Riigi Kinnisvara AS, we have stated that Pärnu will have a very up-to-date internal security house in the area of the former infantry battalion. It is very important that this precinct in Pärnu and the entire West-Estonia region is based in Pärnu. We are all trying to accommodate a large complex in Pärnu and really build this house to deal with migration issues, border guards and rescue issues, as well as counterintelligence issues. Thus, in terms of internal security investments, Pärnu will be much richer in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U30	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U31	Thank you, manager. Mr. Minister! Did you and the new rector also consider that in order to improve the efficiency of our future cadets, sport should be supported already in primary school, primary school and upper secondary school? And have you provided additional money for this purpose in addition to national defence lessons?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U32	With the future rector of the Academy of Home Affairs, we have not discussed general and early education. We have talked about the future of the Academy of Home Affairs as an institution providing higher education and the content of the study. I very much hope that our main focus will remain on this. If you look at the coalition's promises a little more broadly, there has indeed been talk of round money and a lot of other activities in connection with the coalition agreement that would help improve youth mobility. However, as regards general education and home-defence education, from 1 September, the three upper secondary schools in South-East Estonia have internal pre-defence education. The focus is precisely that young people who receive pre-defence training in upper secondary school are prepared to choose the National Defence Academy as their first preference when planning further education. So our focus on the sustainability of internal defence learning is very clear. We are, of course, doing preliminary work in general education schools as well as in the public sector in order to ensure a sufficient number of police and border guards, migration, tax and customs officials and prison servants in Estonia. But any additional help to ensure that students are sufficient at the National Defence Academy is always welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U33	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U34	The next question is from Olga Ivanova, and this is Minister of Enterprise Urve Palole. Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U35	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister for Enterprise, I would like to ask you a question about the pre-election promise to pay more attention to the development of rental housing buildings in the country. I quote your statement: 'The target group for publicly supported rental homes is low-paid specialists, young families, as well as the elderly. [---] For example, a junior teacher who will have a little over 600 euros in the month after paying taxes will find it very difficult to afford an apartment in Tallinn. The second target group is people who would be willing to move to a small town for a job, but in rural areas, rental housing is often not available. [---] For example, EUR 10 million could build 200 apartments, which would be a good start. More precise orders of magnitude are already revealed in the negotiations on the creation of a new coalition and depend on the mandate given by the voters. " I have such a question. Do you have anything done in this area? Have support mechanisms been developed and discussed in the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U36	Thank you for the question and thank you very much for the exact quote. I accept everything, and I still agree. Yes, I am pleased that in the current coalition agreement, the Minister of Enterprise is working on a programme to build publicly supported rental homes. The timetable is that from 2017 EUR 5 million has been taken into account for this programme each year. And it's meant that the state helps municipalities build apartment buildings just outside urban areas, in the countryside. Because there is often a market failure in the country: building an apartment building is more expensive than its market price and it needs state support. However, when we are talking about the urban area and the example of a teacher, the state sees here above all the possibility that either municipalities or developers will be granted loan guarantees through KredEx. The market failure here is currently such that the banks will grant a maximum loan for 10 years, even for a shorter period, and in such a short period of time it will not be possible to earn back the loan that has been spent building the house. If the KredEx guarantee comes in the back, it would be a long-term loan, 20 to 30 years, so we can start the rental market in the city. We are about to develop both measures. We set up a working group headed by the Department of Construction of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, working closely with KredEx. I think we are ready to present the first concrete solutions to the office at the end of this year or at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U37	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U38	I have an additional question who will take charge of the administration. Is it a builder or a tenant or who?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U39	Once again, I would like to point out that the state itself is not going anywhere with its own hands. This must still come out of the development plans of the municipality, how the building will contribute to the development of the rental home area, what solves the problem and how the house will be maintained later. It is clear that, if the State gives impetus to the construction of such dwellings, either by providing direct financial support, for example, in the area of the rural area or in the city through a guarantee of 50%, these dwellings will later have to pay off. There is no provision for a later payment by the state; this money must come from the rent payments of the residents. I see today that all this should be organised through the municipalities. Very precisely, however, I am ready to respond once we have developed a specific programme. Today I'm talking about how I see it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U40	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U41	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. There has been a lot of positive feedback from local governments on this idea and action, but I would like to make a suggestion. This working group, which is going to draw up this plan, could certainly involve representatives of local governments, such as the Cities Association and the Association of Municipalities. Who is planned to be involved in such a group? It is always better to discuss it with those who will have to do so before any plan is sent on the ground.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U42	This is certainly a very worthwhile and correct proposal. Of course, local government associations must also be involved. The original plan we worked out last year and then we had a broad steering group involved. There were large associations of local governments, the union of towns and rural municipalities, as well as real estate associations and larger cities, such as Tartu, Tallinn and Valga, where there are acute problems. Of course, this must be done in cooperation. I agree that much is expected of this programme and that there is very strong support for it. Recently, I read in Maaleht that one of the rural municipality's leaders said that I thought it was Imavere, that they would see it as a great opportunity for the state to help build such an apartment building in cooperation with the rural municipality. People are now commuting to work and back, traveling long distances to work in Imavere. There are jobs there, but they can't live there now. If they can live there, they're registered there and their tax money goes to the parish. So there are several aspects to the venture. Of course, the needs of local governments are very different. But I would like to stress once again that when we talk about rural areas, the problem is that there are no modern rental apartments at all and that they do not arise because their construction costs are higher than the market value. This is where the country has to come to help. In cities, however, rents are too high for young people and people at all who are on low incomes, including older people. Today is a limited time, I cannot tell you all about it, but the CDC did a very thorough survey among the elderly, and it turned out that there is a very strong interest in this programme in this group.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U43	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U44	The next question is from Martin Helme to Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U45	Mr. Speaker! Mr. Minister! The immigration crisis in the Mediterranean is a very hot issue in recent days or in recent months. The European Commission has proposed its own solution, which is the central allocation of refugees under quota. Prime Minister Rõivas has confirmed in the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Foreign Minister Keit Pentus-Rosimannus in the Committee on Foreign Affairs that Estonia is not in favour of the quota system. I actually want to ask whether the Estonian Government considers that immigration remains the exclusive competence of each Member State. Do you state clearly that this quota is not compulsory, but that if we base this quota, it is a voluntary decision of the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U46	Thank you for your question. In a terrible way, I would like to look with you now, just in these minutes, I have a window open here, but unfortunately I do not hear the European Commission's press conference on this subject starting. 20 minutes ago, the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, spoke in the chairing words of this press conference and present the Commission's proposals by Frans Timmermans, Federica Mogherini and Dimitris Avramopoulos. Before we begin to predict exactly what comes from there, whether or not a forced quota, there is no point. Yes, it has been clear that the European Commission wants to propose stronger measures than it has done so far. When I recall this meeting, which was with the Foreign Ministers in Luxembourg a few weeks ago, the Home Affairs Commissioner in Avramopoulus offered a ten-point action plan so that the whole of the Mediterranean problem relating to refugees could be resolved. It included, among other things, stronger involvement in anti-crime activities, up to the point of destroying smugglers' boats. There was a proposal to extend the range of missions, channel special relief teams to the countries of departure and a number of other proposals. These ten proposals can be found on the European Commission's website. As far as your particular question is concerned, I say that once this proposal has come, we will certainly be discussing it in the government, and we will also come to Parliament or, more specifically, to the Committee on European Union Affairs, if we want to change the position of the Government of the Republic. At present, the position of the Government of the Republic is that we support a voluntary approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U47	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U48	Thank you very much. In this sense, it is great that everyone understands that this is a veto decision, or at least if the European Commission really wants everyone to join it, then Estonia can simply stay out of it. I am asking whether you personally are in favour of vetoing such a decision and excluding Estonia if the Commission wants to impose it on us.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U49	I have never advocated any very strong forced division by the European Union. The fundamental principles of the European Union have been voluntary. The European Commission is discussing the matter in these minutes, you see, Frans Timmermans is talking, I would like to listen, but unfortunately I do not hear what the proposal is. It is worth recalling that the European Council has discussed this issue, including these ten points. The Council's decisions on the ten points proposed by the Commissioner for Home Affairs in Avramopoulus were to support the redistribution of 10000 refugees on a voluntary basis. Similarly, other measures, which require additional money, are supported and referred to today by President Juncker of the European Commission. I mean, to deal with this problem, the amount will be increased from 2.9 million to 9 million per month. But yes, there are many topics to discuss there. Quota is a very small part of the problems. In fact, we need to deal with the country of departure, we need to help resolve the concerns of those people where they live, and that is what the Member States of the European Union as a whole must do. This will solve the problem much more effectively than simply redistributing people. Our own concern is that if we look at the bill for applying for international protection from Estonia, then last year this figure had increased to 147. As of yesterday, we have already received 81 requests, most of them, 34, from Ukraine, 10 from Syria, 8 from Palestinian occupied areas, 8 from Sudan, etc. The number of refugees who have already arrived in Estonia has increased by about ten times in ten years. This must be taken into account in the same way, and we will pass on this message in our dealings with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U50	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U51	Thank you, manager. Mr. Minister! We hope wholeheartedly that this coercion will not come and that we will have the wisdom and the wisdom to take the right decision. But with this problem, we have developed the concept of 'new immigrants'. Together with the adult immigrants, their children also come to Estonia. I know that there is no method of training new immigrants in Estonia other than the Tallinn Art High School. This has been done in Tallinn Art High School for five years. Now I ask you, have you foreseen, in case this compulsory quota comes, to finance the training of children with such special educational needs?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U52	Once again, I would like to wait for this proposal. After that, maybe you can start shaping some kind of position. As far as the adaptation of people in the country of residence is concerned, Estonia also has an adaptation programme concerning the admission of people to Estonia. Everything starts with the fact that when a person applies for international protection on the border, he or she will first be placed in the Vao reception centre if he or she is peaceful and law-abiding. The reception centre is already overcrowded: there are 35 seats, but there are currently 82 people there. From there, this process will start to run, until it is possible to provide a person with professional skills, in cooperation with the unemployment fund, if a person or a whole family receives international protection, in the framework of an adaptation programme which has been partly funded by European Union funds. Of course, a person should find a job and a place to live once he or she has received international protection. If he or she does not receive international protection, he or she shall be given time to leave the country. That's the process. Of course, they try to take into account all the circumstances, so far as there are children in the family, they must be educated here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U53	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U54	The next question is from Artur Talvik to Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U55	Thank you, Chairman! Good minister! The European Commission's new internal security plan and Europol are both concerned about encryption devices and think that they prevent criminals from being caught. The Estonian ID card is also known to have a unique crypt on it. How does the Minister intend to open the 'back door' to the pressure coming from Europe? What methods and arguments do you intend to resist?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U56	Thank you for your question. I want to separate two issues, which have gotten a little mixed up in the media or which have been incorrectly used. First of all, I.D. I.D. is an I.D. and he's very secure. The second issue is cybercrime. What is discussed by Europol's Director General Wainwright is, above all, the fight against cybercrime. Elik, if we have crime in normal life, we will use the possibilities established by law to pursue it, and this pursuit will be sanctioned by the court. When we talk about the ID card and its security, the Estonian state is not going to make any discounts here. The Estonian ID card is secure, it is encrypted and remains encrypted and there are no back doors. As regards the fight against cybercrime, of course Estonia, like all other countries, is interested in not having the opportunity to empty people's bank accounts or deal with online fraud. Let's keep these things separate: cybercrime and ID-card. The ID card is secure, the back doors are missing and the crypt works. Don't tie these two things up, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U57	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U58	Thank you for your answer. I think you've turned things around. It's about privacy and protecting it. Europol and the new security plan claim precisely that many 'communication tools' are encrypted and they cannot monitor the communication that takes place from there. The aim is to reduce the use of encryption programmes for the detection of crime. Going into some history, you could say that Skype communication was encrypted once, and then entered Skype via the back door. Could you elaborate on that approach?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U59	Thank you. Once again, the identification of the person with the ID card was and is safe and will remain secure. Nobody, at least as far as I know, is talking about a means of identification and ID-card security somehow trying to get into the fight against crime. There's talk of cyber security. Let's take a simple example. We have cell phone reception. Well, quite simply, the most original technology was 2G, then 3G came in, and now it's 4G or LTE. This LTE or 4G is also encrypted with a certain key. There's talk of a possible 5G coming. But it also means that if, for example, with the permission of the court, a criminal needs to be eavesdropping on his phone calls, which is a perfectly legitimate act, then it also needs to be broken down by this 4G communication. Similarly, it is possible to use FaceTime for iPhones offered by Apple, for example, and this FaceTime call is encrypted with a certain key. Let us understand that the criminal world is using all these possibilities up to encrypted channels. This was what Europol has been talking about, perhaps encrypted channels and the committing of crimes there. The second topic, once again, is identification and ID. There is certainly no question that we should start talking about opening ID-card encryption channels or even some such ideas and back doors. They're not here, they're not coming.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U60	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U61	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, That last line of 'no, no, no' was pretty good. But I wouldn't be so sure about that. If we look at the developments that have taken place over the years, we can see that, for some reason, these ideas continue to grow. At the moment, there is a position that is very pleasant, that the ID card is secure and that poses no threat to the safety of its users. But suppose, for example, that in the course of the year or two, Estonia should still give up the pressure from Europe and, in order to fight crime and criminals, we should open up our ID-card channels. Should e-elections really be banned in this case, because then the back door is open to the whole of Europe, to the third party?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U62	Thank you. I will then say for the third or fourth or 24th time that there is no pressure to decrypt the means of identification concerning the national means of identification, whether it be an ID card or a mobile ID. Europol's talk has been about cybercrime in particular. There's no pressure on us. Even if someone should come up with an insane idea to start talking about means of identification in this context, the Estonian state will at least be in the clear position of this government as long as this government exists, no discounts will be made in the security of the ID card. We're not even going to discuss any back doors on the ID card.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U63	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U64	The next question is from Martin Repinski, Minister of Enterprise Urve Palole. Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In the last two days, very many Estonian entrepreneurs have received a proposal to register their company in Latvia at their e-mail address in order to significantly reduce the tax burden on the company. The letter is accompanied by a quote from the Director General of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board: 'Latvia's low tax rate for micro-enterprises is a good idea that does not force start-ups to fight blood out of their nose to survive. Latvia's tax distinction gives micro-enterprises the opportunity to conduct business honestly. ' This is because Latvia has adopted a law that greatly simplifies the lives of small businesses, which do not have to pay income, social or unemployment insurance contributions if certain conditions are met. It is obvious that this will stimulate Estonian entrepreneurs to move to Latvia and pay taxes there. This concerns in particular the IT sector, which is often not linked to a particular location. According to many experts, Estonia needs small businesses more than ever...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U66	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U67	... the liberalisation of payment policy. Do you agree that we must act immediately, as Latvia is already actively organising a PR campaign to involve investors?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U68	Thank you. Today, it is certainly early to analyse the impact of Latvia's tax changes or advantages. There's a lot of nuances. At first glance, everything may seem simple and good, but when we look more closely, we see a lot of nuances that need to be taken into account. For example, if I am not mistaken, there must be 10 employees in the company, etc. Once again, we are waiting to see if and what effect will occur in Latvia. But I see a threat today. When a small enterprise starts, it does not have a separate economic environment, it does not live in an incubator, it is one market where it also has to deal with large companies, some customers, etc. If you make very big tax incentives for a small business such as Latvia has actually done, with many nuances, but still, it can make a picture very crooked for a small business. It takes into account this advantage and the resulting lower price when placing its product or service on the market and then starts winning the market. But when the discount is over, either because the turnover increases or because the time gets through there are also time criteria, or because the company is growing, it is very difficult to increase the price significantly with a fingertip when taxes rise. This is one of the greatest threats to be considered. I therefore think that if we make incentives for companies, it should be better thought out. I think we can continue the discussion right now. My time is running out.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U69	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U70	Thank you for your answer. I agree with you in part. As I have already said, above all, this problem concerns the IT sector, but not just the IT sector. For example, I know pig farmers who are really ready to move their business to Latvia now, because they pay 300 euros per animal in addition to the sow premium, etc. Clearly, it's not all that simple. However, if this change is still coming into force in Latvia and our entrepreneurs are going to move there, what do you think we should do about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U71	Thank you. First of all, the same pig farmer must also consider that if he moves temporarily to Latvia, he receives this benefit and consequently calculates the prices, then his company is not expected to remain very small for life, plus there are time criteria. It's not as easy as it looks from the side, it's also the idea of moving. It doesn't promise any real porridge mountains. What are we doing in Estonia? In Estonia, unlike Latvia, it is that if a company makes a profit and invests it further, we do not currently have a tax on it. In Latvia, this tax is 15%. Similarly, we in Estonia are trying to support our entrepreneurs in the new period by means of innovation measures. While in the old days support from EAS was given to large companies in particular, we now want to provide support to small and medium-sized enterprises so that they can make a leap forward in their development, increase added value, raise wages and think more about exports. After all, EAS has some EUR 600 million in funding for the new period, i.e. EEK 10 billion, all of which are going to develop our business. So our approach is different and more focused on helping companies to grow into more expensive products and services, to be more competitive and better able to cope with it. It is true that in Estonia, the social tax is currently too high for workers on low wages, and the OECD's recommendations have also been that labour costs for low-paid workers or, let's say, tax reductions should be considered. This could be a discussion place for us to continue. Of course, at the same time, it must be discussed that if we significantly reduce taxes, we will have to fill the budget gap. These discussions, I think, would be very welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U72	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U73	Thank you, manager. Good minister! You are the Minister of Enterprise and your first job should be to improve the business environment and boost the competitiveness of companies. But now we are in a situation where the fuel is already cheaper in Latvia than in Estonia, for example, the excise duty on diesel fuel is 14% higher than in Latvia and the cars are refueling in Latvia. At the same time, we read that the number of tourists in tourist accommodation companies is decreasing. I am asking you, Minister, how the rapid rise in excise duties on fuel and the abolition of VAT concessions on tourist accommodation support our business. Can you give me a brief answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U74	Thank you. Separately, excise increases do not, of course, support entrepreneurship. I'm sure you're asking me a question with a trick, and you know it. But there's another side to the excise. Firstly, I am pleased that the Government has taken a decision not to increase excise duties on fuel in 2019. We have also agreed that each year, before the excise increase scheduled for next year takes effect, we will analyse the economic situation and the situation in neighbouring countries. If you look at the potential effects of increasing excise duties on the cost of our products and services, it will be around 0.15% per year. If you take three years cumulatively, until 2018, we're talking 0.45%. Of course, it varies from product to product, with 0.02% per year for food, 1.3% for land transport in the middle. I certainly stress that, after 2016, when excise duties on fuel are first rising, we need to carry out impact analyses before 2017 and 2018. Currently, excise duties on fuel are one of the lowest in the European Union in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. As regards the abolition or increase of the VAT credit, I also welcome the fact that, despite the government's initial intention to abolish the VAT credit, we have reached a compromise that VAT will rise by 5%, reaching 14%, and that the benefit will be maintained. Speaking of the tourism sector, this sector will receive nearly EUR 90 million until 2020, in order to increase demand, plus another EUR 6 million under a separate agreement by the Government Union. We could discuss that for a long time, but unfortunately, we ran out of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U75	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U76	There's 1 minute and 25 seconds left. Jaak Madison will be able to ask a short question and the Prime Minister will be able to answer briefly. Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, A quick question about the Mediterranean operation, where Estonia is the sixth largest contributor among the 28 Member States of the European Union to save all refugees, immigrants and those in need who would otherwise drown at sea. Here's the question. Our internal security is under a great deal of shock. Today I met Elmar Vaher in person. There are 1,000 fewer employees in Estonia than five years ago, and the impact on internal security caused by the rise in excise duties will be very severe next year. What is your personal assessment and opinion on whether it is justified to strive to be a leading country contributing to the operations of the Mediterranean rather than to strengthen our own internal security?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U78	Thank you. I'm still gonna have to cool off your enthusiasm a little bit. Estonia is the sixth contributor, given the size of the countries, but we do not reach this high in absolute numbers, of course, because Estonia is one of the smallest countries in the European Union. We're sixth in terms of per capita. But to your question, if it is justified that Estonia is also involved in mitigating international crises and we see our immediate neighbourhood beyond that, the answer is that yes, it is justified. It is not the case that Estonia is living in isolation and what is happening further away from us, be it someone else's concern. It is up to Estonia to be a dignified member of the international community. If we are able to help others at the right moment, it gives us confidence that others will help us when we need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U79	I will conclude on this issue. Today's Question Time of the Riigikogu has ended. Thank you to the members of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U80	Honourable Riigikogu! The session of the sixth working week of the first plenary session would open on Wednesday. Who wants to submit drafts or requests for information? Does Jaanus Karilaidi have a procedural question? No, it's not. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U81	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 12 members of the Riigikogu, I will report to the Minister of Health and Labour about the inquiry on the statement by the Estonian Association of Family Doctors regarding the regulation 'Updating of the Primary Health Centres'. Neither I nor anyone could explain to you in their remaining minutes and a half what they're talking about. But in plain language, we are talking about the possible restoration of collective farms in Estonia. Namely, there were once very many health centres in Estonia. About 20 years ago, it was made clear to us that this is not the case, it is a completely wrong health care system, ideologically contradictory to us, to our lives, and so on. We've moved to the family medical system. The point is that over the last year, steps have been taken to re-create health centres, to bring together family doctors in health centres, which are planned to be built at 75% of European money and 25% of family doctors' money. No one takes on the responsibility of returning to family doctors the money they have invested in their offices, technology, etc. Another expense doesn't know for what. That's the subject I'd like to discuss with the minister. Restoring health clinics is about the same thing if someone comes up with the idea of rehabilitating the community for European money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U82	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U83	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Culture, I have the decision to pass on the draft 'Announcement of a Member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council, a renowned expert in the field of Estonian Public Broadcasting'. This draft has been developed in connection with the early termination of the mandate of Krista Aru, member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council and on the basis of the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U84	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U85	Ladies and gentlemen, The members of the Centre Party Group have an inquiry to report to Auditor General Alar Karis. The location of the problem concerns the objectives and monitoring of the Ministry of Defence's public procurement. For the first time in the course of the 2013 state budget procedure, the National Audit Office submitted an additional request for money to the Ministry of Finance to ensure the capability of auditing the defence field and internal security. According to the National Audit Office, there is an urgent need to increase the scope and frequency of audits of defence and internal security. The cost of defence and internal security is 730 million euros this year, accounting for 8.6% of the state budget. It is in the interests of the parliament, the government and also the taxpayer that, based on the audits carried out by the National Audit Office, it can be assured that the expenditure for defence and internal security is targeted. It is in all our interests to increase our own defence capacity and to use taxpayers' money wisely. In relation to this, we have four questions for the Auditor General. We're waiting for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-05-13_U86	In total, one draft and two inquiries were submitted, with which the Board of the Riigikogu carries out its activities on the basis of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now, presence control, please! 82 members of the Riigikogu are present, 19 is missing. The sitting is adjourned. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 2.08 p.m.
