ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U1	Honourable Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning. We will begin the session of the second working week of the IXth plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U2	Honourable Riigikogu! On behalf of eight members of the Riigikogu, I present an inquiry with a very simple question: what policy does the Estonian Government pursue? When the current government took office, the coalition agreement made it clear that we would continue the partial transition of upper secondary schools to Estonian-language education, as required by the law in force. But now the Minister of Education and the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Estonia has started a vigorous media campaign that the partial transition to education in Estonian is a mistake. Last week, the Minister of Education made a clear statement in Delfi, saying that 60: 40 is a mistake, it has to be cancelled, and let the schools decide for themselves. All of this is in a situation where some schoolchildren themselves have been intensely inclined to resist the transition to schools. It is no surprise that the leader of the Russian School in Estonia, Mstislav Rusakov, has warmly welcomed the government's new policy. The transition to education in Estonian has been made again with political propaganda. Such signals from government members to educational people and Estonian society are very quickly destroying all the efforts that have been made over the years and are clearly served in ideological, not educational, sauces. Yesterday, Jaak Allik, a member of the government association, told the Riigikogu that he considered political vermin to be when Russian-language students are taught Estonian history in Estonian. Our questions are clear. Why do the members of the Government of the Republic organise such information operations before the elections? Is it a comprehensive government policy that the transition to Estonian-language education in upper secondary schools in its current form must be abolished? If that is not the case, why is the Prime Minister silent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U3	Thank you. Are there any more requests to hand over drafts and enquiries? No, it's not. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check, please. Currently 88 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present and there are no 13 members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U4	Let's get to today's agenda. Our first item is the first reading of draft 814 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Appointing the Chancellor of Justice over Madise' presented by the Government of the Republic. Ms Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U5	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, According to § 65 (7) and § 140 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the Chancellor of Justice is appointed by the Riigikogu on a proposal from the President of the Republic. The Riigikogu appointed the current Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Teder, as Chancellor of Justice on 12 February 2008, and Teder took office by taking an oath before the Riigikogu on 10 March 2008, so his mandate ends on 9 March 2015. On this basis, President Toomas Hendrik Ilves launched on 4 December. a draft decision appointing the Chancellor of Justice of Ülle Madise. The Commission discussed this proposal. a on 12 January 2004 and decided to propose a first reading of the draft on 20 January and also a final vote. Members of the Commission and Siim Raie, Director of the Office of the President of the Republic, and Ülle Madise, Chancellor of Justice, attended the meeting on 12 January. Mr Raie explained the process that started around the Midsummer Day of last year. The Office of the President of the Republic reviewed a long list of well-known and well-known lawyers and consulted the judiciary and politicians. All this resulted in political consultations with the political parties represented in the Riigikogu and as a result this draft decision was submitted in December 2014. Siim Raie explained that Ülle Madise proved to be the best candidate in terms of his academic background, personal characteristics and also ability. Ülle Madise then said that she would be happy to answer the questions of the members of the committee, since she has already been to all the political groups of the Riigikogu to explain the outcome of the work of the Chancellor of Justice, the nature of the work and the choices she had made that she could not deal with or deal with. Ülle Madise added that it is neither possible nor constitutionally possible to make promises about policies or possible decisions in this work. Next, my colleague Jaak Aaviksoo said that some legal specialists, including former Minister of Justice, have thought that the constitutional oversight function could gradually move away from the duties of Chancellor of Justice and rather remain with the Supreme Court. In doing so, the Chancellor of Justice could take the Ombudsman's office more seriously. Aaviksoo asked how the Chancellor's candidate felt about it. Ülle Madise said that the decision on the competence and function of the Chancellor of Justice is, of course, made by the Riigikogu. In general, constitutional supervision has been in place as a function of the Chancellor of Justice and, if, however, a different view is reached during the analysis, it will undoubtedly be possible to remove it from the competence of the Chancellor of Justice. Ülle Madise then explained the functions of monitoring the constitutionality of the President of the Republic at length, but I will not stop at that because this is not the immediate subject of today's decision-making. The speaker further pointed out that the Chancellor of Justice is, however, the only individual institution capable of questioning the work of the Riigikogu in an abstract form. If this matter goes into procedure, the Riigikogu is in a coercive situation under the current constitutional regulation, which ends with Parliament breaking the Constitution. If the Riigikogu wants to change something, § 142 of the Constitution provides that the Riigikogu has only 20 days to do so. However, in such a short time, it will not be possible to bring any law into line with the Constitution. Ülle Madise did not comment directly on this situation, but described the function of the President of the Republic in monitoring constitutionality, including the right to exercise the President's veto. Madise said that the President should be careful when using veto and use this right only if it is 100 percent clear that it has gone wrong. The speaker said that the problem is often seen as being bad or contrary to the Constitution, but it is often due to the application and application of the norm. By declaring the law to be contrary to the Constitution, it automatically pushes in a large number of constitutional processes. However, one might often consider that it is the application of the Act that is wrong and that it is the act of application that is unconstitutional, not the norm itself. Tarmo Tamm noted that very often the Chancellor of Justice has been forced to turn to the Supreme Court. However, the state has not begun to comply with the decisions of the Supreme Court. 'Where is the solution and why does the Chancellor of Justice do this work at all if the state does not comply with the Supreme Court's judgments? Tarmo Tamm asked. Ülle Madise explained that, fortunately, most of the Supreme Court's judgments have been complied with. Indeed, there are isolated and very complex cases where the country has not done so for any reason. It was longer, it was also an example that, in the case of the famous § 7 (3) of the Property Reform Act, Parliament was in difficulty to resolve the matter, but when the judgment finally came into force, the court made a political decision. This may not be the best solution, Ülle Madise found. The speaker also asked whether the question of the payment of the compensation for the maintenance of technical installations could have been resolved differently. This is a very large piece of legislation, and Parliament is currently not in the slightest position to start writing this draft itself if the government does not want to deal with the problem or is slow to deal with it. How can this situation be resolved? Ülle Madise replied that according to the current constitution, it is possible to oblige the government to submit a draft. The second solution was that it would be possible to strengthen Parliament's support staff and to find additional resources to do such work if necessary. The situation that Parliament depends on the government for draft laws is not entirely in line with the principle of the balance and separation of constitutional powers, explained Ülle Madise. Jaak Aaviksoo actually said that today it seems as if the judicial authorities of both Estonia and the European Union had started to deal with political decisions more and more. Aaviksoo asked whether there was a balance in this regard in Estonia or whether independent political supervision of the court still needed to be strengthened. Ülle Madise was partly in agreement with this observation, because in countries with strong constitutional courts it may seem that way. At the same time, Madise felt that the judicial review of constitutionality had worked quite well in Estonia and that she did not see a major problem in it. The speaker further asked that if the constitutional oversight system as a task of the Chancellor of Justice is a good solution, why do other countries not use this principle in Europe? Ülle Madise found that each country has its own peculiarities and the system of constitutional supervision in Estonia is truly outstanding. In addition, the speaker asked whether the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment, who is currently under the authority of the Ministry of Social Affairs, could be a member of the office of Chancellor of Justice, in so far as both the Office of the Chancellor of Justice and the Commissioner for Gender Equality are essentially dealing with the same thing, i.e. trying to pursue gender equality and avoid discrimination. Ülle Madise broadly agreed with this conclusion and added that the Chancellor of Justice also deals with the function of ombudsman for children. To sum up, Madise agreed to this task, according to our understanding. This closed the debate and the Commission decided to put the proposal on the plenary agenda on 20 January. a, propose a final vote on the draft and appoint a speaker as rapporteur. All the decisions were unanimous. In addition, pursuant to § 117 (3) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, it was proposed that Ülle Madise, the Chancellor of Justice candidate, should make a presentation before the Riigikogu's plenary session for up to five minutes. This decision was also consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U6	Thank you very much. Before we go to the questions, I will correct the error in reading the agenda. Today, of course, the decision of the Riigikogu presented by the President of the Republic is under discussion. Please, Ene Ergma!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U7	My question was exactly the same. I was surprised how this could have been the decision made by the Government of the Republic if it was entirely the competence of the President of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U8	Thanks for the clarification. That's it. Now, Ülle Madise, Chancellor of Justice of the Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U9	Honorable Head of the Riigikogu! Respectable Riigikogu! I would like to thank you for the opportunity to share with you some point related to the work of the Chancellor of Justice. The first of these is, in fact, a concern. It seems to me that it may be common to Parliament. The point is that it is not difficult to keep a professional, impartial and honest line in the office of Chancellor of Justice. But it is difficult to explain that what is considered unfair is not always in conflict with the Constitution. Even mere unreasonableness or stupidity, if you wish, may not be unconstitutional. It seems to me, and it also sounded in the discussions between the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the political groups, that, more and more often with a rather light hand, the argument of unconstitutionalism has become used simply to fight for its own interests. It's not just bad. It must be good that people know and study the Constitution and understand its importance. What is bad, though, is the belief that there can be a single sense of justice in society - one's own. How can we make an ever-increasing understanding of society a difference in interests and values? The law, the rule of law, is necessary first and foremost when life itself does not work if interests intersect and the legislator has to draw a proper line between this crossroads, a balanced line, and when it is necessary to narrow someone's interests in the interests of others. This is the common concern between the Chancellor of Justice and the Riigikogu about how to get more and more people to understand: Estonia is founded on freedom, justice and justice, and justice begins in elections. What is the tax system or the density of the social safety net should be decided primarily by the voter and then by the Riigikogu, not by a lawyer without a direct mandate from the people. It seems to me that the Constitution should not and should not be the lump with which the Chancellor of Justice, or the Court, pushes through its own world-view convictions or preferences. That is why, as the honourable Rait Maruste referred to, the Estonian constitutional oversight system seems to me to be quite good. In my opinion, it is right that the Chancellor of Justice or the President of the Republic will first appeal to the Riigikogu to reconsider this provision and, if Parliament shares the opponent's views, it must be brought into line with the Constitution. The repeal of the norm that may happen in the Supreme Court is also of a legislative nature, and sometimes the decision that is made in this way is of a very political nature. In my opinion, it is also good that ex-ante control of the constitutionality of laws, in general legislation, is so strong. This is good because, ideally, people do not have to suffer because of the implementation of an anti-constitutional rule. A flawed provision will be found before a person has had to take over the courts, it will be fixed before someone's rights are undermined. Good Riigikogu! I am also talking about the Ombudsman's activities. For more than 15 years now, i.e. 1 June 1999, the Chancellor of Justice is also the Ombudsman, who is investigating the application of the Constitution and the laws in real life, of course, protecting first and foremost the rights of those who cannot defend themselves effectively. The Ombudsman's work also provides a good input for constitutional monitoring, and here the answer to the frequently asked question whether the Ombudsman's work should be separated from the regulation of the Chancellor of Justice. They should not, they will complement and support each other. When it comes to the application of laws, there are often problems with understanding the law, but also with the objective possibility and ability to serve people as intended. There is not enough money or enough trained staff, sometimes there is no desire or habit. So what do we do? Are you going to make a big deal of trouble? Sometimes it's justified. But most of the time, it seems that keeping a steady hand on the pulse and supporting constructive solutions is much more beneficial. Finally, the role of Chancellor of Justice. I think that the Ombudsman, who seeks to understand all parties, is the best solution-oriented Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice with authority based on professionalism, honesty and consistency best responds to the spirit of the Constitution. It is a good thing that the Chancellor of Justice can also contribute to the clarity of the relationship between justice and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U10	Thank you very much. By the 40 seconds that passed from five minutes, the President was able to extend the time of the report pursuant to § 67 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now there are questions for the waitress. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U11	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You have been very active in society and have played many roles. What roles do you have in your new job?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U12	Thank you. Please, Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U13	The work of the Chancellor of Justice is only compatible with the work of the university professor and the burden on the professor is likely to be so small that it does not in any way interfere with the work of the Chancellor of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U14	Thank you, manager. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the chancellor's candidate. The rise of the new office will certainly give you plenty of opportunities, but also more, say, room for manoeuvre and power of action. I recall the words of Albert Newcomer, a very popular writer among the islanders. He said he really liked people whose career doesn't change. Do you agree with that statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U15	Sure I am. How could you disagree with a classic? I do not think I need to be ashamed of what I have done so far and I will continue to be guided by these values and principles. In the specific work of the Chancellor of Justice, there are certainly different choices in public speaking than in the past, which is inevitable. However, values and principles do not change.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U16	Thank you. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U17	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good chancellor candidate! You've been doing some old-fashioned show on Kuku's radio for quite some time now and then. Will you continue with this in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U18	Not since you took your oath. I've also informed the chief editor of Kuku's radio. I don't think you can reconcile the management of a show with the office of Chancellor of Justice. However, I am happy to be invited to explain the problems of society and law and to talk about the work of the Chancellor of Justice, but then at the hands of an experienced host.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U19	Thank you. Any more questions? Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Good chancellor candidate! The Chancellor of Justice has quite a number of tasks and methods of editing. One is that he participates in meetings of the Government of the Republic. What is your understanding of the role of Chancellor of Justice in a government hearing?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U21	The Chancellor of Justice shall have a say in matters concerning his office at a meeting of the Government. I think that I would like to use the word'state-manly' at this point, if, for example, the Chancellor of Justice or his administration has caught the eye of a draft law or regulation that is unconstitutional, he will also give an incentive to report it. However, the Chancellor of Justice cannot in any way equate himself with the Minister at a government session.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U22	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U23	Dear Ülle! For the sake of historical memory. The Chancellors of Justice, let's say, like plumbers and professors, are all kinds of smarter, the other is the opposite, less smarter, and so on. I wanted to ask you about our mutual teacher. How do you assess the legacy of our first Chancellor of Justice, Professor Eerik-Juhan Truuvälja, during our new independence? Do we have anything to learn from it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U24	Thank you, Igor, for this question. For me, Eerik-Juhan Truuväli has indeed been a good teacher, a great example. He's the one who brought me into the work of the Constitutional Legal Expertise Committee. Together, we have been commentators of the Constitution in three publications and we are still communicating. I think that his contribution was great, and I also very much appreciate that he was consistent and competent in his job and thus earned undisputed authority.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U25	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U26	Thank you! Good candidate! During the period of the first republic, the Chancellor of Justice was essentially a legal adviser to the Head of State. It was therefore reasonable for him to be present and to attend meetings of the government. The current office of Chancellor of Justice with its role as Ombudsman has a different structure and nature. Perhaps this is the point of thinking that, if the Ombudsman's function were to be performed in full seriousness according to its content, the Chancellor of Justice should also attend the meetings of the Government of the Republic? How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U27	Thank you. Please, Barbi Pilvre!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U28	Anton Palvadre, appointed in accordance with the Constitution, entered into force in 1938, did indeed play a completely different role. He was also former Head of the Supreme Court, in our sense the Chairman of the Administrative Chamber and, to a large extent, he was involved in analysing these issues, and indeed, the Heads of State also advised on the supervision of the activities of the institutions. But the system was completely different. The comparison of the current constitutional framework with the then, like the honourable questioner, I obviously do not consider possible. In my opinion, participation in the Government's meeting of the Chancellor of Justice in the function of regulation supports. However, as the committees and political groups have said several times, the Chancellor of Justice is not the legislator. The legislator is the Riigikogu with the mandate of the people. If consideration comes to the fact that it is necessary to change the duties of the Chancellor of Justice, this requires an amendment to the Constitution, but the initiative can, of course, come only from the President or the Riigikogu, then the decision will be taken by those who have been appointed to do so and who have the authority to do so. But right now, as I said, our constitutional oversight system is well balanced. I think that this has fallen out very well in the spirit of parliamentary democracy, and participation in government meetings is compatible with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U29	Thank you. Do you think the parliamentary immunity falls within the competence of the Chancellor of Justice? For Indrek Teder, that was the subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U30	The task of the Chancellor of Justice is to initiate the waiver of the immunity of both a member of the Riigikogu and a member of the European Parliament. I was deliberately simplifying the use of the term. Undoubtedly, this is the task of the Chancellor of Justice. At the Supreme Court, the dispute over whether the Chancellor of Justice has to do so or may not be resolved. This solution has now been specified by the Riigikogu in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U31	Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U32	Thank you very much. As we heard from Rait Marust, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the issue of the Gender Equality Commissioner came up with you, and you agreed that the Gender Equality Commissioner could be placed under the right of the Chancellor of Justice. What are you going to do, now that you're taking up the duties of Chancellor of Justice, specifically in this area? What are your first steps?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U33	Whether the Commissioner for Gender Equality is left with the scope of his duties, as well as the scope of the duties of the Chancellor of Justice, again I apologise for repeating myself, the Riigikogu decides. I don't think the Chancellor of Justice is the initiator of the law. If the Riigikogu or the Government of the Republic brings this matter up, of course I consider it to be a national and good practice when the persons concerned are also consulted, including the Chancellor of Justice and his office. If I may, I'll be a little more specific about the answer. A number of political groups raised the question of whether it would be appropriate to reconcile these agencies, in so far as the Chancellor of Justice is also responsible for the protection of equality and anti-discrimination. Indeed, I replied that it was possible to do so. But to be clear, if there is a desire to take this whole function from the Chancellor of Justice to the Commissioner for Equality, that is also possible. Here I do not consider it appropriate to dictate to the legislator.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U34	Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable chancellor candidate! How do you comment on the fact that the Chancellor of Justice's views have changed when the person who plays this role changes? If, for example, we look at how the right to life has been interpreted in the context of the Constitution, whether it is absolute or not, then your predecessors have had different positions. How do you comment that interpretation depends on the person who plays this role, and what is your own position on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U36	The basic method of law is rational reasoning. Law science inevitably resides in life and is accompanied by a change in life. For example, if, before the occupation, the family was single in relation to marriage, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, i.e. the family was based on the marriage of a man and a woman, the 1992 Constitution did not take over this concept. Therefore, interpretations are also different. Similarly, when we talk about life, the concept of taking life and its limits, even the right to abortion, have over time received different interpretations and solutions. In my opinion, it is natural for the Chancellor of Justice to accompany the positions of the European Court of Human Rights in the development of his views. It is also possible, as in Supreme Courts and Estonian Supreme Courts, that rational reasoning can sometimes produce a different result than before. Courts also sometimes change their decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U37	Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U38	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the chancellor's candidate. The committee had a discussion on the enforcement of Supreme Court decisions. However, I heard from the Rait Maruste report as if you had said in the committee that the Supreme Court made a political decision. Was that so? If so, how can the Supreme Court make a political decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U39	The decision of the Supreme Court to repeal the norm may lead to legal consequences that are political decisions of nature and should first and foremost fall within the competence of the Riigikogu. At the same time, I do not criticise the State Court, because at times such a situation is inevitable. If, for some reason, the Riigikogu has not been able to use the time given to it and the opportunity to resolve the problem itself, negotiate, choose a compromise suitable for balancing different rights and interests, then there is no alternative other than the fact that the court decides itself. That has been the case in some cases. So I'm not criticizing the court here, but it's just a procedure. It's not bad. As regards the enforcement of the Supreme Court decisions on which you asked, that is a very good question. However, there is no other answer than that the boss of the Riigikogu is a nation, i.e. the voter is the only one in charge. Neither the Chancellor of Justice nor the court can issue a ticket to the Riigikogu or any of its members separately for failure to comply with the Supreme Court's decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U40	Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U41	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Some time ago, scandals with closed educational institutions or old people's homes could be read, where people have been held in conditions that may not be the most to be expected. The current Chancellor of Justice has drawn attention to this. What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U42	In addition to the fact that Estonia has a constitution that prohibits all forms of degrading, cruel, inhumane treatment and torture, and sets clear limits on the deprivation of liberty from a person, Estonia has also joined international instruments of this kind. It is therefore the duty of the Chancellor of Justice to protect people who are in closed facilities, in closed educational institutions, in nursing homes. Again, I apologise for the simplified use of terms. I think that these tasks have been carried out well and that this will continue to be the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U43	Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U44	Thank you, good manager. Honourable chancellor candidate! We have quite often faced the fact that life is moving fast and the laws simply do not catch up, not to mention the constitution that is decades behind. What is to be taken into account, then, if there is no good example or law, particularly as regards information technology, rapid smart development, etc., but even terminology that has not yet been dealt with in other legislation? Where should assistance be obtained in such cases, or would it be an example of good practice in other countries? What should the Chancellor of Justice base his decision on in such cases?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U45	The work of the Chancellor of Justice is accompanied by an assessment of the constitutionality of laws and other acts. Again, the method is rational reasoning. All facts, as well as the scientific information that exists at this point in time, must be taken as a basis and can be used as a basis. When it comes to information technology or some of the rules that are not yet in the law, it is in principle possible to challenge the absence of a norm. The Chancellor of Justice has done so in practice and has been accepted by the Supreme Court, but this is an exception. If the honourable Riigikogu allows one more general remark about the legal order, I would add that very often the problems arise from the fact that some issues are over-regulated. If the laws are more value- and purpose-based, whether the instrument is pen and paper or information technology, it is not crucial.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U46	Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the chancellor's candidate. My question is somewhat in the same key as Mr Priit Sibula's, which concerns the different positions of Chancellors on some issues. But I'm not asking whether it's good or bad or whether it's normal or not. I ask whether the members of the Riigikogu may belong to local government councils. As we know, the previous Chancellor of Justice has the same position, which is different at present. What's yours?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U48	As I said in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I do not think it is appropriate to allow the Chancellor of Justice to challenge some of the rules and to leave some uncontested. I apologize for saying so and not for getting more specific. The theoretical discussion on this issue was written in agreement in the executive edition of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U49	Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U50	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the chancellor's candidate. We have had a property reform in Estonia for 23 years, and it continues to challenge the return of houses that are currently under trial. The current Chancellor of Justice has recently no longer taken the trouble to respond to the statements made by the Association of Estonian Tenants, although the Union of Tenants uniting thousands of people is of the opinion that the property reform is unfair to many. That's why I have a question. If the Union of Estonian Tenants turns to you for a legal assessment of the property reform and such enquiries, do you agree to respond to it or do you say in the same way as the current Chancellor of Justice that the people are already accustomed to the reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U51	In my activities so far, I have tried as best as I can explain the situation to anyone who approaches me or my institution, to try to make sure that people understand why the law is like this and what its chances of defending their rights or interests are. Thank you for drawing attention to the subject of property reform. Regrettably, it is not likely that there will ever be a common sense of justice in society on this issue. Those who were entitled to the return of the property still feel that, by restricting this right, either by the fact that someone's rental contracts were still in force or by the fact that certain assets were not being exported, the State is unfair to them. At the same time, many of those forced to move out of an apartment that had to be returned feel that the reform was just unfair to them. This is one typical example of how a decision or compromise can be painful for both sides.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U52	Please, Kalmer Lain!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U53	Thank you, President of the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the chancellor's candidate. Do you think the composition and budget of the Chancellor of Justice's office is sufficient now?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U54	As far as I have observed the activities of the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice because of my earlier work and also my university activities, I feel that it is possible to operate with this resource. If more tasks are to come, of course, resources must also be found to carry out these tasks.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U55	Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U56	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the chancellor's candidate. We often face the question of whether or not this is a breach of the Constitution. As a candidate for Chancellor of Justice, I'm sure you can tell us how the Constitutional Impeachment will be determined. Is it cognitive, or is it based on the interpretation of the Constitution? As we know, the constitution is quite a small book, but the explanatory notes are put in quite thick volumes. To what extent will your own understanding become decisive for the interpretation of the constitutional breach?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U57	Thank you. Such a question immediately pushes a button that would make the professor of constitutional law explain at length what the relationship between the violation of fundamental law and the violation of fundamental law is and that every breach of fundamental law does not yet constitute an infringement of that right. This is a concept from the German legal theory, which provides for a protected area of a fundamental right. Any State measure which restricts or prohibits anything for a person constitutes a barrier to that protected area and must be justified. Only if it is rationally argued and justified by, for example, public interest or by someone else's interest outweighs the intensity of this restriction, it is constitutional, otherwise it is not. There is a long theory behind this, and I think that this reasoning logic must continue to be respected. Your question is extremely good in this respect, and thank you for that. Of course, the line between constitutional law and politics is sometimes mild.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U58	Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U59	Thank you. Thank you very much for your very interesting answers. In this Chamber, the subject of the minor's right to self-realization has been raised several times, particularly in a combination of different drafts, because one law is very much forbidden, another very much allowed, and different laws evaluate the maturity of the minor or the limitations of the right to self-realization in different ways. Have you had time to think about or analyse whether a more comprehensive review of this issue would be necessary? Maybe it's the limit of adulthood in the wrong place today. What theoretically could be the way to solve these problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U60	Thank you. Before you answer, I ask you to stay in the hall: pay attention! Too much noise. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U61	Of course, ideally, questions from the minor's right to vote to his or her right to terminate a pregnancy without parental permission would be fully thought out. There will be a driver's license, a right to get married and many other questions. In short, this palette, which has age limits and the rights it sets, is really wide. But once again, ideally, I wish it were. In practice, there is no democratic rule of law where one issue could be resolved in a holistic and immediate manner. However, it seems that progress on these issues is step-by-step.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U62	Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U63	Thank you. Honourable Chancellor-designate Ülle Madise! I also ask about the property reform because there was no clear answer. You said that in a way neither party would be satisfied with this law. Perhaps it should be re-examined and looked at from a legal point of view, also considering who should be compensated for moral damage and financial damage. For many forced tenants, they were still homes that they lost while not receiving anything back. From a legal point of view, this seems unfair and was a political decision, not a legal one.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U64	I'm afraid to grieve you with my answer. Inevitably, it is the Riigikogu that solves this type of issue first. A lawyer can't possibly be the one telling you to return the apartment and not to you. The foundation is the law, the lawyer must be able to interpret it. The question of whether anyone else should be compensated for in the disputes that have now ended is political in nature. It is therefore a matter of political dispute. These cases, which have not yet been concluded, will probably be settled according to the laws currently in force. On this type of issue, it can also be very difficult to add incentives in the middle of the procedure. I'm sorry, but I can't give you a better answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U65	Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U66	Thank you. Mr Madise, thank you for your very constructive answers. My question is based on the relations between the state and local government. I remember that a few years ago when the Supreme Court's decision was made that regulated the performance of the state functions of local governments, the two of us were in the radio studio one in one city and another in another, and we talked about this topic. Do you think that everything is right now with the functions and funding of local governments and the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U67	Again, I apologise for not making a promise to challenge or reject the law! But the relationship between the local government and the state, i.e. the division of tasks between them, and the financing of the performance of local government tasks is a problem always and everywhere, also in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U68	Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U69	Thank you, Madam President. Good chancellor candidate! Under the second item on our agenda today, we are discussing a bill that is intended to give the people more holidays and, in principle, to make Christmas holidays for Russian Orthodox believers. How do you feel about the holidays that are made on "religious principles"? Should a small country celebrate the festivals of all religions, i.e. would it be right that the festivals of all religions be public holidays?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U70	The Constitution does not say anything about this; it is Parliament's decision. And on a little jest, I can add that as an employee, I welcome every day off, especially if it falls into a nice season, but not so much as an employer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U71	Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U72	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the chancellor's candidate. I wanted to ask you that, from a constitutional point of view, legal certainty and legal clarity are fundamental values. We have this tendency that the laws are becoming more and more detailed. But the more detailed they are, the more often they need to be changed, and the further away we go from the principle of legal certainty and legal clarity. This trend starts not from the Riigikogu itself, but from the broader concept or design of the legal space. How could it be changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U73	If this trend is not to be changed by those officials or ministers who usually bring drafts to the Riigikogu, it is possible for Parliament itself to change it. Fortunately, the Riigikogu committees really do review the draft laws in detail, if necessary, abandon some norm, make some easier and more difficult.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U74	Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Chancellor-designate Ülle Madise! Your discussions, as one of the questioners has already said, old people's debates, i.e. such, say, serious and changing society, we have followed through the years. How do you feel about whether the Chancellor of Justice can avoid expressing political views at the moments of his choice? If so, at what moments do you feel this is going to be difficult?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U76	If the Riigikogu decides to appoint me to this office, I think that my experience in life and the sense of constitutional law and the ability to delimit it in politics are sufficient. I hope I can handle this nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U77	Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U78	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In answering one of my fellow Members' questions, you said that there are problems in relations between the state and the municipality in all countries and that there is nothing to do. It is now known that even the decision of the Supreme Court, say, on the division of labour between local governments and the state, has not been fully complied with. But your answer sounded something like there was nothing to do, and I got the impression that you weren't going to do anything about it. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U79	Thank you for asking and thank you for the opportunity to clarify the answer. No, I did not allow me to challenge a valid norm or the absence of a norm when I became a member of this office, nor to leave it uncontested. Similarly, I think that it is not possible to solve all problems immediately and quickly at once, for example, in the current situation, to reform the local government, which includes both the division of tasks and the sound financing arrangements that are compatible with the autonomy of the local government, and would also be feasible for the Estonian state. I'm not saying it has to be that way, and I'm not saying it's gonna stay that way. It's just the way it is. It is wise to be aware of this, but of course we must always move towards finding solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U80	Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U81	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable chancellor candidate! What do you think about e-votes? If a person can express his or her opinion only once in a normal vote, he or she can change his or her choice several times in the case of e-voting. Besides, no one knows if he's around while he's squeezing the button, alone or with anyone, and if anyone can influence him. What do you think of these things? Is that correct and proportionate?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U82	In my opinion, the electronic vote is in accordance with the Constitution. Of course, it is important to keep under constant review that the system functions correctly. This will require, as has always been the case, IT auditors, independent observers. It is only in exceptional cases that it is possible to put your note to the urn several times by voting on a paper note and, of course, either one or no votes are taken into account if necessary, I can explain this scheme further later, while, in the event of an electronic vote, it is possible to change its vote, and once again, only one vote is taken into account, the Supreme Court has analysed and concluded that it is compatible with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U83	Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U84	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable chancellor candidate! Just as a large part of the substantive work in the Riigikogu is done in the committee, the substantive work of local governments also takes place in the committees of the municipal council. However, there are, as we know, cases in which local governments simply do not involve the opposition in the work of the committee or are not enough. What is your assessment of this situation, namely the involvement of the opposition in the municipality? The Chancellor of Justice has been approached in the past about the work of some municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U85	The Chancellor of Justice can analyse whether or not the provisions of the Local Government Organisation Act on the formation of committees are compatible with the Constitution. I am afraid that the Chancellor of Justice cannot and must not, at least in general, intervene in the issue of setting up specific committees in specific municipalities and cities.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U86	Please, Ene Ergma!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U87	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the chancellor's candidate. Mr Raidla has said that the Presidents of the Riigikogu, do not boast how many laws and acts you have adopted, maybe you do a lot of them. But there is a big contradiction here, because most of the bill comes from the government. In the 12 years that I have been in the Riigikogu, I have never seen a government bill rejected. How can it be that the government, too, does not see legislation as its main work, where something needs to be changed and regulated all the time? I think this is a very difficult question. How do we get to thinking before we bring the laws here, and so does society take it so that the most important thing is not the number of acts, but the quality? Do you think you could help out here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U88	Thank you for that question. Yes, the Chancellor of Justice has the right to address the Riigikogu in general matters of the legal order. As far as I have spoken to Jüri Raidla on this subject, it seems to me that he is referring to the collection of laws or the separation and rewriting of laws for so-called beauty or because he has succeeded in obtaining the project's money that can be distributed among the writers, and that is how the new law will come again. True, there is often no vital need to change the law. At the same time, understanding devices are being changed, sometimes perhaps not for a sufficiently compelling reason. It also renders established case law useless or very difficult to use, which in turn undermines legal certainty and the Estonian economic environment. As far as I know, Jüri Raidla is referring to these cases. The rule or two required to transpose EU law is often hidden within this large code. However, very often, European Union law does not require the drafting and adoption of the Code as a whole. Only the Riigikogu itself can do anything about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U89	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U90	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the chancellor's candidate. I still come back to the question of electronic voting. If, in the case of a normal vote, the ballots are kept for a month, they are mostly destroyed within a few days by electronic voting. Can you comment on why?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U91	Thank you for this question. I recall that I also owed Heimar Leng an exact answer from the Centre Party Group and I looked into it in the meantime. In fact, according to the law adopted by the Riigikogu, both paper ballots and hard drives are destroyed after the deadlines for contesting them, with e-voices on them. For a very simple reason: there is nothing to do with this material after that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U92	Please, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U93	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the chancellor's candidate. If you're saying there's nothing to do with them afterwards, why do we keep other documents? The answer was so round, it quickly pressed the button. Why don't you explain a little more, from the point of view of other documents?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U94	Anonymous noises on paper labels, such as 800000 notes, can perhaps be imagined by those who have been in contact with the reading of the notes in life or by hard disks with electronic voices, in principle, can be preserved. As far as I know, Britain, for example, is being preserved. However, the legislator has decided that neither in Estonia will be preserved after the final date of the contestation, the final outcome of the election and the loss of any possibility of contestation. If the Riigikogu considers that the law should be maintained in the future, then the law must be amended.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U95	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U96	According to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, I have to ask a question. The question is, do you mind, Ülle Madise, if we wish you luck in your work?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U97	Honorable Speaker of the Riigikogu, thank you very much!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U98	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Chancellor-designate Ülle Madise! It is now possible to get the floor in the negotiations. Only the representatives of the political groups can speak. Any requests? No, it's not. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 814. We are preparing for the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, According to § 79 (2) (5) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, voting at the Riigikogu sitting on the appointment of the Chancellor of Justice is secret. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Appointing the Chancellor of Justice of Ülle Madise' presented by the President of the Republic of Estonia, Toomas Hendrik Ilves. Please take a stand and vote. 72 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 9 against and 2 abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U99	Ladies and gentlemen, We're going to the next item. The second point is the first reading of the draft law amending § 2 of the Holidays and Holidays Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. Please present a speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U100	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian Centre Party proposes to amend the Holidays and Celebrations Act, in particular § 2 of this Act, and to supplement the list of public holidays. Madam President, why don't we take a technical break?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U101	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to share your congratulations outside the Chamber of the Riigikogu. [[In the diner.]] We are now dealing with the next item. Let's hope there's a working mood again. Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U102	I'll continue. We offer to supplement the list of public holidays with two holidays. One of them is January 7, the Christmas of Orthodox believers. It is necessary to add that although Eurostat announces on its official page that Estonia is the most atheistic country in Europe, we find an overview of the churches operating on the Estonian territory on the website of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and, according to them, there are still approximately 400000 people who believe in Estonia. About 170000 of them are supporters of the Estonian Orthodox Church of Moscow Patriarchate. It should be supplemented by the Old Believers. Their number is not available on the Ministry's website, but it is probably in thousands. So almost half of Estonian believers celebrate Christmas on 7 January. When you look at how the festival is celebrated in the Christian world, there are 15 countries where Christmas is celebrated one day. These include seven countries where it will be celebrated on 7 January: Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Macedonia, Serbia, Georgia, Ukraine and Russia. In 19 countries, Christmas is celebrated for two days, including one country where this holiday will be celebrated on 25 December and 7 January. There are eight other countries where Christmas is celebrated for three days; Estonia is among the eight countries. And there is also a country that celebrates Christmas on 25 December, 7 and 8 January. Celebrating this festival requires that believers carry out certain procedures that go badly with a working day. Of course, I would like the rights of all people to be respected, and it would also be a public holiday on 7 January. We're talking a minimum of 1 70,000 people. The second public holiday that we propose should be included in the calendar is the second holiday of Easter. You can say that if you believe in the Internet, it is celebrated in 34 countries. I don't understand how Christmas is celebrated in 42 countries and Easter in 34 countries, how is that possible? But that's Wikipedia's data. In most countries, this holiday is celebrated in three days, even four, and there are many among the countries of the European Union where the second Easter is celebrated, which always falls on Monday. I give examples: these countries are Austria, Germany, Spain, Italy and the Netherlands. These days people don't work, shops are closed, banks are closed, these days are purely holidays. The banking system rests almost all of Europe on Easter Day 2. So there's no big problem, but to announce it as a holiday and a public holiday. Believers who expect our support and support would be very grateful to the Riigikogu for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U103	Thank you very much. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U104	Thank you. Good colleague! I understand that the Commission said that the coalition would not support this draft. Could you comment on the reasons why? You discussed this in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U105	Thank you for your question. One reason I certainly remembered was that the draft law stated wrong statement that more than half of the believers were those celebrating Christmas on January 7. There is no such statement in the explanatory memorandum that there are more than half of them. I may have had a glitch when I introduced the bill. That means there's no reason. It was also claimed that this would introduce a new terminology. But the explanatory memorandum confirms that there are no new terms in the draft. It was explained to us what the new term was meant by the words "Christmas of the Righteous Ones," or the word "Judges of the Righteous Ones," in this section. In my opinion, the Ministry has shown extraordinary thinking ability here, pointing out that the word 'righteous believer' is terminologically something new to which attention should be drawn. But we had to call it January 7th, and that was the option that seemed to me to be the best. When Christmas is celebrated in December, there is no need for a note, it is Christmas of the Roman Catholic Church or Lutheran Church. If there are already two of them, then there is a way to distinguish them, and most Orthodox churches celebrate Christmas on 7 January. So, in my opinion, this term is entirely in place here. There was another third reason. If memory doesn't fool me, it was said that the economic effect has not been calculated and so on. But my opinion is that the feelings of believers are not measurable by any amount. The co-rapporteur will certainly read exactly the reasons why they do not agree with this bill. I remember what I just said.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U106	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U107	Thank you very much. Dear waitress, Estonian society has become relatively multicultural, and this means very many creeds that the Estonian people follow. The freedom of conscience is known to be valid in the Estonian state, which means that every person has the right to acknowledge a religion that is pleasing to him, acceptable to him or none of them. Your draft deals with one particular religion, Christian, in a narrower sense, but with this one branch, orthodoxism, and even more specifically with the two different patriarchs of this branch. Do you consider it practically and legally possible that Estonia will establish its national holidays according to the practice of all confessions in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U108	Thank you. That's a good question! We only deal with one religion. Why are we doing this? Because other countable churches have the opportunity to celebrate Christmas. How can we be fair in this situation? We're going to zero out the whole system, and then we're going to start discussing what we're going to put back in there. And then you will have the opportunity to say that one of the adoptions of Zoroastrianism exists in Estonia, so let's put their holidays in this law. Or someone comes with another offer. That is the very right proposal, I think that this is the way to behave in a democratic country. There is no need to take into account that 170000 people wish to receive this holiday, and it is necessary to find any reason to deny it. However, we are basing ourselves on a democratic system, that is very right.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U109	Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U110	Mr. Stalnukhin! On the grounds of your bill, you said that Orthodox people expect their rights to be protected. I believe you meant freedom of religion. Do you have an example that the current legal situation interferes with, or is hindered by, Orthodox practices and rituals? As far as I know, the Republic of Estonia fully respects everyone's right to freedom of religion. There is no such right that someone has the right to a public holiday. Do you see the difference and how you explain it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U111	Mr Maruse, I cannot call this a good question, that is a very bad question. I'll be reading the verbatim report in a couple of hours when it's published, and when I find out that I've said in my speech that Orthodox people want to defend their rights, I publicly apologize to you. But as far as I know, I didn't say it, and I couldn't say it, because they don't need to be protected, they're protected by faith. Whether it's on the sacred calendar or not, they're celebrating it anyway. Whether Christmas is marked on the December calendar or not, religious people from all over the world are still celebrating it. There's no need to make a policy out of it. There's no need to oppose one group to another. The question is whether you, including as Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, are willing to take into account the interests of the people or not. If you don't agree with this, well, God with you, the man who believes in God says, go your way. I don't want to say at all that this bill is designed to protect the rights of Orthodox believers, they can celebrate Christmas anyway. It's a public holiday. The Estonian Council of Churches also proposes in its letter that 7 January and the second holiday of Easter be announced as a public holiday.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U112	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, I largely agree with you. Like many Orthodox believers, I celebrate winter holidays and other holidays, whether these days are marked in red or black on the calendar. But I have a question that maybe doesn't directly concern the bill, but I'm sure it will. It says the coalition doesn't support the bill. However, I understand that the Minister of Education and Science has renamed the next Christmas break for the winter holidays and extended it so that children can celebrate January 7. With this, children have sort of solved the problem. Do you know and understand whether there are differences between political parties in the government or whether only children could celebrate this holiday? Do you know?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U114	Thank you for your question. I don't think these things connect. One thing is a public holiday and an opportunity to celebrate a holiday on a holiday. Another thing is school break. Unfortunately, there are not so many believers among young people as among my generation and older people. It does not eliminate the problem, it is some sort of short-term solution for a specific year. The Minister may, of course, allow this, but the probability that he is also the Minister of Education at a time when someone has to sign a regulation to extend school holidays, well, I would suggest that it is 25:75 against. It's about that big of an opportunity. I'm not a political scientist, I don't know what to say. Whether there's a disagreement in the government or not, I can't tell you that. I haven't been to a government hearing, I haven't heard what they're saying. However, in any case, this government's opinion was in common, and there was nothing like that written in it that the Minister of Education disagreed with, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U115	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U116	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! We've somehow gotten caught up in religious matters. As far as I know, there are 80 different confessions in Estonia, and if it had been Satanistic, it would have been 81. But when it comes to celebrating two Christmases, it is quite possible to observe the effect of the sun setting twice in nature. Why can't there be two Christmases or two New Year's Eves, for example, so once a year changes and in a few weeks again? In fact, such a strategy would certainly contribute to the plan of the Reform Party to bring Estonia among the five richest countries of the European Union in the next 15 years. What do you think of this economic benefit effect?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U117	How does it happen in this hall that people ask questions they can't answer? I owe you that answer, all the more so as we can talk to you either in the group or in the smoke room. Maybe you can explain to me better what the question was about, then maybe I can essentially answer you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U118	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U119	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I agree with you that Christmas is celebrated anyway. The Christmas of Orthodox believers is marked by about 170000. You can't deny it. During the Soviet period, Estonians also celebrated Christmas, and then they went to the churches to check on whether or not the students attended church. I'm asking about Easter 2nd. We are generally in solidarity with other countries of the European Union. As far as I know, there are only two or three countries not celebrating the second Easter. Maybe I'm wrong, but I think there's three of them: Estonia, Malta and Portugal. Why are we not trying to show solidarity in this? As we know, the number of public holidays in Estonia is lower than in other European Union countries. What's the reason, can you bring it out?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U120	Why there are nine holidays in one country and 17 in another is very difficult to explain. There must be some way in which people's mentality, religiousity and all other historical causes are involved. These decisions were made 20 years ago, and I do not know what principle was followed then. As for the celebration of Christmas, I would like to remind you that I hope that memory will not deceive me that until 2002, we had an Orthodox church unregistered. If, from the outset, we had two Orthodox churches in play with their legal status, perhaps we would be celebrating two holidays, just as in Belarus and Moldova. But it happened the way it did. It's one of those natural things that's important is all history, traditions, customs, everything that's happened during the transition period. This leads to lists of public holidays, which reflect national characteristics. But what's great is that anytime you can change that list, and that's what's been done. I would also like to say that you are absolutely right: there are holidays that are not marked in red on the calendar, but which are all celebrated. 15 years ago, there was a war in this hall about March 8. This was then attempted for a public holiday, and the answer was to give what you are imposing upon us on such a totalitarian Soviet holiday. Later, the same moderate ones who reminded us of 9 March 1944 in Tallinn and everything else in this hall stood by the shops with red cloves to share them with the passing women. So there are deadlines that, for some reason, are politically, ideologically, we cannot formally admit, but we are still celebrating. Maybe some holidays aren't so different from Soviet times when they went to check on who goes to church at Christmas.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U121	Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U122	Thank you. The Reform Party has emphasised in this Chamber that 170,000 Orthodox people are a small group of people whose interests do not require legislation. You've been in the Riigikogu a long time. Do you remember that laws have been made for the interests of a much smaller group of people or groups of people? Mr Maruse wondered why it was necessary to give the Orthodox people a day off. In this regard, I recall that while the Russian Orthodox people celebrated their Christmas in the Cathedral of Alexander Nevsky, Metropolitan Cornelius of Tallinn and all of Estonia appeared there with a message, which was also carried by public television. That's where he said, by memory, I recall that hopefully the Estonian state will reach the point of declaring this day free for Orthodox believers. So the Orthodox hope. They do not ask or demand, but hope that the Estonian state will ever reach it. But I think we have laws before, with the interests of many smaller groups in mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U123	One thing is what you yourself mentioned in the debate on the previous item, the return of property, which affected tens of thousands of people in Estonia. There wasn't a big group of people that they did it for. Such things have been done, and there is still a reference to the logic that should enable all these free days to make it possible for only one part of the people. But now I suddenly realized that Mr Rummo could respond in such a way that if a group of Muslims ever sits in this Chamber, they will come with their proposals and then they will discuss these holidays.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U124	Thank you. Please, Terje Trei!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U125	Thank you! Good waitress! You are now talking about Christmas, which is celebrated in two different faiths at different times because of the difference in calendars. But we also have other holidays, such as the Jani. Why didn't you bring them in, why did you stop at one holiday?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U126	Thank you for the opportunity to talk here for not too long about everything I got smarter by reading Wikipedia. In fact, everyone can read all this, all the information is there. So all I'm saying is that every church has a number of holidays. Some of them are very important, others are more common holidays. Practically every day is sacred, for every day is the day of a saint. There is an apology in the Russian church, I do not know how it should be translated into Estonian. That means two and ten, 12 holidays, which are the most important. They are spoken of separately as two festivals, Christmas and Easter. These are the most important holidays for a Christian at all. That's why we're not talking about anything else, just for this simple reason. The birth of the Lord and the resurrection of the Lord are two things that are most important to every believer. Of course, every religion gives an interpretation of everything, but it doesn't change things. These are the two most important holidays, and that is why we are talking about them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U127	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U128	Thank you. First of all, for the sake of the verbatim: you gave me a very elegant proposal to celebrate any confession festivals as public holidays. This was not a proposal, it was my question to you: can you imagine that the area of application of what you proposed in your draft can be extended in the way that my question sounded. But now to the second question. In response to Mr Marus, you very wisely said that Orthodox people in a particular case do not need protection because they are protected by God. In my opinion, the main weakness of your draft is that it seeks to reconcile two incompatible issues. One is religious freedom, which is one of human rights and one of people's fundamental freedoms, the other is the number of public holidays and their nature, which is a relatively narrow issue for organising state life. Do you agree with me that your bill has basically failed and on the wrong grounds?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U129	Under no circumstances do I agree with you. If you didn't understand the answer to your first question, whether it's possible to expand this list, then in this world, as long as people or mouths melt, everything is possible. I wasn't kidding at all. We are seeing this now in several Member States of the European Union, where there are several local authorities in cities. Last year, I visited a town in the Netherlands where mosques are more than Catholic and Lutheran churches and where Christmas trees are no longer placed in the center. It is likely that new urban regimes and life have been brought into line with them. Sooner or later, the same will happen at national level and it is not excluded that we too. I understand that you are a liberal and freedom must, in your opinion, be very broad. There must be an opportunity, as Europe is now fashioned, to brag about any religion, thus demonstrating the breadth and intellectuality of its soul. I'm not in favour of that. I really think that faith protects a believer by itself. I think that if you would agree to the draft as a member of the Riigikogu, you would show some respect for 170000 people, and that would be a big plus in their eyes. You may or may not be religious, I do not know whether you are religious or not, but against the fact that the foundations of today's ethics and morality have been established for Europe by a world religion such as Christianity, few and probably not in this Chamber. So I think it's a successful bill. You have supported these drafts last year, which are based on anti-Christian laws, such as the Law on Partnerships and on certain points of the Child Protection Act. You have initiated a work capacity reform that is cynical. In Estonian, believe me, I cannot find the right word for it, but I have already used the limit for using Russian today. This is a very good bill, which gives you the opportunity to show your constituents and all the people of Estonia that you, Paul-Eerik Rummo, are the same man who once wrote 'Escape, free child! '. We'll be happy to sing and listen to it until now. You have a chance to show that you're a free person who doesn't look for the opportunity to trample the opponent into the dirt for having his own views that you're the right man. Support this law and show all Estonia who you were and who you are and who you will be!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U130	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U131	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, It seems to me that this bill is being taken up again as a Russian subject. In fact, 170,000 Orthodox believers also have a large number of Estonians. I can tell my husband's relatives are Orthodox too. So it's not purely Russian. But that's it. I understand this bill doesn't fly anyway. But perhaps it would have been wiser to separate these two anniversaries so that at least the second Easter would have passed. Perhaps it would have even succeeded, because it is not normal for us to behave so differently from Europe. For example, we are going to another European country, it is sacred, it is not possible to make bank transfers, etc. Would it be wise to limit the bill to a deadline?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U132	Thank you, Tarmo! It's a slippery subject again. Faith tells us that Christianity does not distinguish between people according to their nationality. And even though I know the statistics, how many Estonians are among the 170,000, and how many Russians, I will not use it. I'm not going to talk about it because it's not a matter of nationality. Orthodox churches are all over Estonia, even where the Russians have not been seen for ten years or once in ten years, no one sees them. As far as the two holidays are concerned, when I first came up with this proposal, it was only about 7 January. However, the group recalled that a few years ago we had also talked about the second Easter. And in order not to raise the issue twice, we decided to put these two drafts together.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U133	Please, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U134	Thank you, manager. Ladies and gentlemen, Correct me if I'm wrong, but it looks like everybody's gonna realize again that the idea is very good, but before the elections, it's gonna have to be suppressed by force, and nobody really thinks what it's gonna bring to the others.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U135	Thank you. I must forget for a moment that I am Orthodox and Christian because I am about to become very evil. It is simply that both now and in the previous government coalition, the IRL has, of course, become much smarter now; this wisdom came after they fell out of the coalition, there has been one rule: nothing that comes from the opposition must pass. Exceptions to this rule have been made only in cases where opposition votes have been sought on some dubious draft which is personally signed, such as the draft law on partnership. Sometimes it works. I recall the amendment of the law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property. The draft law itself was submitted by the government, but we made a proposal two years ago to change it, which would have made everything just easier and more normal, would have reduced the surrealism that we have on the border. This amendment was supported by the Commission before the second reading, and everything was fine. Then came to the third reading of the draft law, and at that moment someone in Stenbock's house paid attention to the fact that there is a bill going through the Riigikogu that contains an amendment from the Centre Party, a fundamental one that has been dealt with for 15 years. And then there was the strange situation that the draft was simply withdrawn at third reading. Ladies and gentlemen, if you think that in this case the brains are involved, there is no sign of it, there is no sign of it. There's a jungle, and there's instinct. There is a clear understanding that anyone who is of a different color than us here in this toad nest must be trampled down and beaten to death. This, unfortunately, is our democracy in Estonia today. Now I have returned to being a Christian, and I say, " May God be the one who judge them. ' I won't do it again.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U136	Thank you. Please, Kalmer Lain!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U137	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear waitress, The draft law states that the adoption of this draft does not entail additional State budget expenditure. This will certainly cost the private sector, and I think that in the public sector too, some of the people involved are at work. Are you sure there's no extra spending on the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U138	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. I would like a co-presentation by Väino Linde, Member of the Constitutional Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U139	As a wise man said, the length of a minute depends on which side of the toilet you're standing on. How do you look? If you're gonna prove that it's costing you, you're gonna prove it, and I can prove it too. If you want to prove that you don't bring along any expenses, it's actually a day off, and spending on a day off is reduced, then it's also perfectly verifiable. This is one of those cases where there is no single assessment and there can be no one. That's the kind of thing that happens in life. We prefer this view that it does not entail any additional costs. This is not the purchase of some kind of tanks, where it is clear that money will be taken and given away, and these are additional costs. Where do you see the possibility of considerable costs arising in connection with this bill? There aren't any.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U140	Honourable Riigikogu! Good chairman of the sitting! Among the public holidays is 24 December - Christmas Eve, 25 December - the first Christmas Day and 26 December - the second Christmas Day. In the context of this law, it doesn't matter what any of us expect from these holidays either to celebrate the birth of a happy child or to celebrate an old dad with a red coat and a white beard with a gift bag or a dwarvesman who brings gifts under the Christmas tree. What is important is that the announcement of these dates as a public holiday is based on the cultural context and historical background of our country. After all, public holidays are not just about believers; they concern all people living in Estonia. We must also base our constitution on which section 40 states explicitly: everyone has freedom of conscience, religion and thought. The membership of churches and religious societies is free and there is no state church. What does that mean? This means that the Constitution contains the rule of separation between state and religion and the rule of maintaining equal distance, which applies to all religions and also to beliefs. On the basis of these principles or postulates, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided on 12 January this year, when it considered the draft, by a vote of 6, against 2, to propose that the Chamber of the Riigikogu reject the draft. Of course, before taking such a decision, the Commission thoroughly examined the draft. Mr Stalnukhin, the initiator of the draft act, also reported in the Commission the reasons why this law was needed. It is desirable to supplement the Holidays and Celebrations Act with a provision that would make the Orthodox Christmas Day, 7 January, and the Second Day of Easter a public holiday and a holiday holiday. It was also discussed in the committee that Orthodoxism in Estonia is two canonical subordinates: the Estonian Apostolic Orthodox Church and the Estonian Orthodox Church of Moscow Patriarchate. The first acts according to the new Gregorian calendar, the second acts according to the old Julius calendar. According to Julius' calendar, Christmas is also celebrated by the Old Believers. In the Commission, as it was today in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, it became clear that there are no obstacles for Orthodox believers, even so-called Russian Orthodox believers, to celebrate their Christmas. We were also talking about whether Christmas is celebrated twice in other countries. It sounded like there wasn't one, but each country has to decide for itself why it will announce one day or another as a public holiday. It was also said today that, according to the explanatory memorandum, this bill would not entail any financial costs if it turned into a law, but it would undoubtedly still be. But that is not the main point in rejecting this bill, if you could say so. We also heard the position of the Ministry of Justice, the representative of the Government of the Republic. On 4 December last year, the government decided unequivocally not to support this draft. The reason was that not all Orthodox people celebrate Christmas in Estonia on 7 January. And that the word 'righteous believer' is, however, ambiguous in this bill. It was also found that in our historical tradition the second holiday of Easter is not so widely celebrated that it should be a public holiday. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, as I said, the Commission decided, with 6 votes in favour, 2 against and 2 impartial proposals not to support but to reject the draft. We even held a roll-call vote in the Commission because a good colleague from our committee asked for it, but the results remained that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U141	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U142	Thank you, Madam President. I am pleased that you are speaking on behalf of the Commission, because you are a long-term member of the Riigikogu and maybe best able to answer questions. The first question is that Christmas is now declared a public holiday in Estonia on the basis of the traditions of the Catholic and Lutheran churches. What was the main argument that the Christmas of these churches was declared a public holiday?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U143	As a Commission waitress, I am forced to say that there was no such debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has led to a state holiday in Estonia on 24th, 25th and 26th of December. I can think of these reasons, but I was not a member of the Riigikogu when those days were declared public holidays.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U144	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U145	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! According to you, the committee said that there would be some costs or that there would be some loss of revenue. Did the Commission make it clear that, in principle, businesses do not support or can support such a draft? It's a day when you don't have a job, and it's a loss of income. Did you talk about it or didn't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U146	Our good colleague from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Kalev Kotkas, noted that the draft explanatory memorandum states that the adoption of the draft does not entail any additional costs. However, given that these structures, which also have to work during the holidays, have to be paid according to the holiday tariff, there is a certain increase in costs. In this context, it was mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U147	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U148	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to make it clear that for the Orthodox Church, the day of resurrection is the most important day of all important days. But here's my second question. Please specify, however, what was the main argument that the proposal was not supported?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U149	It can be assumed that in Estonia, public holidays are not inspired by the religious beliefs of individual churches, but by the culture of our people. That is what I said as a Commission waitress at the beginning of everything here. If I remember correctly, our colleague, Jaak Aaviksoo, also drew attention to this in the Commission. This public holiday is not just about believers, but about all the people who live in Estonia. This is precisely the cultural context and historical background of our country. This has led to the decision that Christmas is celebrated in Estonia according to the new calendar.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U150	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Väino Linde! Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft 768 at first reading. We have to vote through this. Let's get ready for the vote! Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending § 2 of the Holidays and Holidays Act, 768. Please take a stand and vote. I'm interrupting the vote. I'm wrong. I'm sorry. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the leading committee 768 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 37 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 22 against, one person was impartial. The draft has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U151	Today's third item is the first reading of the draft Act amending § 10 of the Pre-School Children's Institution Act initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of Riigikogu member Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U152	Ladies and gentlemen, The Fatherland and Res Publica Association have brought a very good draft on the table. But instead, let me start with a fact that is somewhat more historic than the content of the draft. Many drafts have been presented from this remote control, based on proposals made by people at meetings and in their letters. But this is the first draft of the Riigikogu proceedings, the content of which was born directly on social media. And it was born from a discussion of a problem in a social media channel called Facebook. I will first introduce the problem on which the solution was sought. It was not such a often used technique that a member of the Riigikogu puts an already existing solution on social media and people either press the 'like' button or do not press it. Indeed, there was a debate on the problem, and the solution proposed was, at first glance, somewhat unconventional, but we discussed it at length and found that it would actually work very fairly and very well. But now to the description of the problem. Iivet, or the birth of children, is most affected by the availability of services and the possibility of reconciling work and family life, according to demographics as well as other social scientists and practitioners. It is actually the same thing: today the reconciliation of work and family life depends much more on the availability of services for children and families with children than on the amount of child support, for example. The 45-euro child benefit also does not allow the full cost of raising the child to be covered within a month in such a way that the parent can work alongside the child. Therefore, one of the most critical services for families with small children is the provision of day-care or childcare facilities. Most municipalities in the Republic of Estonia have done an excellent job of providing kindergarten or childcare for children from 1.5 years of age. I would like to congratulate these local governments on this. However, there is a small number of municipalities that have failed to carry out this task in recent years. I am not going to discuss here what age it would be right to put children in kindergarten, although this is a question that will always be asked during the debate on this subject. Maybe it's not right to put these little kids in kindergarten. Maybe the mother should be at home until the baby goes to school. However, this is not the subject of today's debate. Just to provide information, the European Commission summarised the results of long-term studies carried out in different countries a few years ago, which reflected the impact of kindergartens and childcare on children. In short, the following were identified as a result of long-term research and comparison. There is no impact on the child's development whether he/she goes to a nursery/school or does not go there. There is no impact on the age at which a child starts attending kindergarten or crèche. However, the quality of the work of the child's institution has an impact on the development of the child, especially when the child grows in a socially backward or needy family. If such a child is able to attend crèches or kindergartens, this will have a positive effect. But generally, the so-called "normal families" have no impact, both negative and positive. So from this point on, we can move forward quickly. How can we solve this problem? Last year, the Riigikogu approved a draft which allows local governments to replace day-care facilities for children up to three years of age with childcare facilities, which are considerably easier for local governments either to create themselves or to use cooperation with the private sector. In all of this, there is still an unresolved issue, which should be done by a family with a small child who is not provided by the municipality for either kindergarten or childcare. If we look at the countries of Europe that are richer than us, we can see that this problem has been resolved elsewhere in such a way that under no circumstances does the family leave nothing left to the local government to offer to the family, preferably in kindergarten or childcare facilities. From this discussion in the Facebook (English-named Facebook) a solution was proposed, the author of which is the well-known illustrator Piret Räni. The point of discussion was that, indeed, if the idea of parental benefit is to compensate for the time that a parent has to be away from work because of the law in force, the idea of parental benefit is to encourage a child to work alongside the raising of a child, it makes sense that if the municipality has not fulfilled its obligation under the law, which, by the way, has been laid down by the municipality for several decades and extends to the beginning of the 1960s and which is valid in Estonia since 1993, the municipality should continue to pay the parent's parental benefit in the same amount until the necessary day care or childcare place is found. It would work more or less the same way as the insurance system. The main objective, of course, also under the current law, is that the municipality should offer a kindergarten place, in the absence of a childcare place. But if there really is such a rare situation where the municipality is unable to offer either one or the other, it cannot be considered normal that until the child reaches three years of age, the basic income for two people is 300 euros in child care pay, which is 150 euros per person per month. Understandably, no law is intended to force a mother or father to stay away from work at a time when they think that a child might already be in kindergarten. Since private day care or private day care is too much for the family, the parent cannot tell his employer on what date he or she could return to work. Praxis has analysed this problem quite thoroughly at the request of the Ministry of Social Affairs and has reached the same conclusion that securing a childcare or kindergarten place has a groundbreaking impact on the family's sense of security and, therefore, on the growth of our people as a whole. When we look at the situation in the countries of the European Union, we can clearly see that in those countries where kindergarten positions are essentially available on the next working day following the submission of a parent's application, natural gain is greater than in Estonia. This insurance, which I hope will hardly be needed, would be most important precisely in terms of the effect of giving a sense of security. Hopefully, it would force and motivate those municipalities that have not yet solved the issue of childcare to put our smallest and fastest-growing members of society a little ahead of their priorities. By presenting this solution, I stress that it has been drafted in an extremely responsible manner. This is a single paragraph included in the Pre-school Children's Institution Act: § 10 is supplemented by a new paragraph 4. However, this paragraph provides for the following, apart from what has already been explained: The parent must declare at least three months in advance that he or she wishes to have a day-care centre or a day-care centre. There is no such provision in the current pre-school institution law. The current law obliges the local government to provide the child with a day-care or day-care position on the next working day after receiving the application. We have foreseen in our draft that the municipality will be given three months to find a solution. It has been specifically emphasised that parental benefit is not paid if the parent has not accepted the place offered at the childcare facility in the service area or, in the case of a child less than three years old, from the childcare provider. So if this bill were to enter into force, parents would also not have the opportunity to make easy extra money if the municipality offered a day care centre or a day care centre and the family did not accept it. In such a case, the parental benefit shall not be paid further. In addition, we have also thought through the fact that our goal is not to keep women out of the labour market in any way, much less to keep men out of the labour market. Therefore, the provisions currently contained in the Parental Benefits Act and restricting the profitability of work at the time of receiving the parental benefit would not apply to the payment of the continuation benefit by the local government. The point is that this amount is either intended to compensate the parent for being in his own home or to pay for childcare by the parent. The Minister of Education and Science, Jevgeni Ossinovski, has sent a seven-point letter to evaluate this solution, and since I have analysed this letter in the Commission, I will do so here too. The letter stands out by the fact that, on seven points, Minister Jevgeni Ossinovski has been able to slip or err 15 times. It's a kind of record. But let's go over this letter here. First of all, Minister Ossinovski has thought that if a parent has wished his child a day care position, he should not receive any benefits, but should receive this kindergarten place. At this point, we fully agree with the Minister: there should be a kindergarten place. This bill, however, solves the second question, which solves a situation where, for some reason, the municipality does not offer a kindergarten place. So what happens to this family anyway? Once again, this would be a European solution, so that the family will never be left without security. Thus, there is no contradiction in the general principles of administrative procedure referred to by the Minister. Secondly, it has been stated that the parental benefit relates to the individual's salary, which is unrelated to the cost of the day-care place. Absolutely not! Only when a parent sits at home, there is no connection to the cost of a kindergarten place in the same way. It is deeply misleading to think that the forced absence of a parent would somehow be compensated if the local government simply paid him a fee equal to the cost of a day-care centre. There are both men and women whose work, service, loans and everything like that relate to different numbers than the cost of a kindergarten place. Therefore, they do not want to sit at home, and this simple connection between kindergarten and parenting would be a long time ago. The letter states that offering a kindergarten place would be a new obligation for the municipality. No, you wouldn't! This would not be a new obligation. The Pre-school Children's Institution Act, which obliges the municipality to offer a kindergarten place essentially on the next working day after receiving the parent's application, must, of course, have reached the age of at least 1.5 years, has been in force for a very long time. And by the way, for a very long time, municipalities have been able to fill it. I stress once again: the vast majority of Estonian municipalities are still able to comply with this legal requirement. In no way is the bill intended for a parent to be at home longer, as the Minister has understood. On the contrary, when a parent applies for a day - care or day - care position, he has shown that he wants to go to work. For parents, it may even be offensive to think that someone is seeking a place in kindergarten in order to be at home. The letter states that the Act provides for the provision of a deposit service to parents of children aged 1.5 to 3 years. We fully agree that such an opportunity exists under the law, and we have not opposed it in any way. The draft states very clearly that if the parent has not accepted the proposed savings facility, he or she will not be compensated. It also states that it makes no sense to assume or, in any event, to consider that local authorities do not fulfil their obligation. You could close the insurance system on a sentence like that right now! We do not expect anyone to run down a pedestrian on a crossroads, we absolutely do not take this into account, but yet we have recorded in the law of traffic what the consequences are if someone does. This bill does not, either, assume in any way that the municipalities will not fulfil their obligation. On the contrary, the draft assumes that municipalities will fulfil their obligation, but we will provide additional certainty in case this is not the case for some reason. I will also read out the following mathematical genius: 'Because, according to the local authorities, they do not allow kindergarten places because they do not have sufficient resources to do so, it is not conceivable that they have the means to pay parental benefit. ' If this is the approach of the Ministry of Education and Research to ignoring the law by local governments, it is said that there is no money, and then it is as if there is no need to comply with the law, then we cannot accept this approach. In addition, we would remind you that the parent who went to work alongside the child pays income tax, some of which are also paid by the local government. Thus, the parent's going to work has a positive link with the state budget and the local government budget. It should also be stressed that there is no correlation between the economic capacity of the local government and its ability to offer kindergarten places. We can see that many very poor municipalities are able to offer kindergarten places nicely and that many wealthy municipalities, such as the city of Tallinn, cannot do so. The latter have decided to spend their budget money on other expenditures. I am running out of time, so I will pass the rest of the errors in this letter very briefly. The question was raised as to whether the municipality had fulfilled its obligation when it paid compensation. No, he hasn't fulfilled his obligation. The law clearly states that the municipality is obliged to provide a day-care centre or a day-care centre. The sixth point could even be accepted, but only in the case of the first sentence: 'It is very important that the parent can return to the labour market after the end of parental benefit if he or she so wishes. ' We, too, believe that this is extremely important. It is claimed that the negative side of the measure to be applied in this draft is to encourage women to be absent from the labour market in the long term. From what end? The aim of the draft is the opposite: we want to ensure that the municipality offers a day-care centre or a day-care centre and that women are not away from the labour market for a long time, but that they can work alongside the child if they want to. There are some other deeply mistaken points of view in this letter. To conclude, I would like to support this draft, which gives family confidence and does not include any new tasks, the approval of which would mean a long step forward, so that parents do not have to worry about what happens after the child has reached the age of 1.5 and, for some reason, the municipality does not offer him a place in kindergarten or childcare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U153	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U154	Thank you. I didn't read any of the problems in the city of Tallinn about the bill, but you were able to talk about them in your speech. I can tell you that there are no longer any kindergarten places in Tallinn, except that they are not divided equally in all regions. The initiator of the bill might know that. At the same time, I know many municipalities in Estonia where the IRL is in power and there are no kindergarten places, but this is not the subject of this draft. I ask how much parental benefit the local authorities will have to pay out.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U155	Thank you for that question. For a comment on Tallinn's topic, there are indeed free day-care centres in the capital. But just like that, there are no kindergarten places in Tallinn for children with special needs in any part of the city, even at the back of Lasnamäe or in Kopli. The fact is that there are children in Tallinn to whom the city does not have any kindergarten places to offer. Now for the amount of parental benefit. Thank you for this very good question. Since this money is intended to compensate for the amount that a parent misses due to his absence from work, it could depend on his or her current salary. For those who did not have income, the municipality would also pay exactly the same amount of parental benefit. We also analysed whether it should be the same amount for everyone or whether it should be different, as is the case with parental benefit today. We came to the view that it was important to keep the same standard of living for the family. The parent does not voluntarily refuse to go to work, but because the local government does not fulfil its obligation. I repeat, these are exceptional cases. However, as in the case of other insurance systems, the same amount of parental benefit that was still paid to them would then be guaranteed. At the same time, there is no need to fear that the local government might be the first to offer kindergarten places to parents who have been paid the maximum amount of parental benefit, for example. Municipalities must offer kindergarten places on a queue basis. If, for example, there are nine persons who have received minimum parental benefit at the head of the queue and the tenth is the parent who received the maximum parental benefit, then the municipality must first find places for those nine and only then can the place be offered to the tenth. Such an illustration. I repeat, it is true that first priority has been given to people's understandable interest in going to work and doing the work they are able to do and getting paid for it. And if someone gives up the kindergarten or childcare provided by the municipality, there is no need to pay him any compensation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U156	Please, Barbi Pilvre!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U157	This draft is a very important issue. Indeed, what do people whose parental benefit ends and they should go to work, but there is no kindergarten place? This is especially true of single parents. However, the amount of compensation offered here may be unrealistic. Have you thought that perhaps the municipality could compensate for the difference between the cost of a city-owned day-care centre and the cost of a private day-care centre?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U158	Thank you. That is also a very good question. We also analysed this option and it was sidelined for the following reasons. Firstly, this would lead to a relatively high administrative burden, as it should be analysed whether the invoices submitted by private day-care centres are justified or not. If the law had even written down that the municipality would have to compensate for this difference if it did not offer a municipal kindergarten place, it would be likely that private day-care centres or private day-care bills of EUR 1000 would be quite quickly created. Child care can also be taken by one child, and it is not excluded that some enterprising people will create such a EUR 1000 place. However, the parental benefit law originally includes the idea that it is necessary to make up for the money that the parent misses when he or she is away from work for the sake of the child. So it seemed to be the clearest and most secure solution. I would also like to point out that there is no way we can take the credit for trying to come up with this solution. It was born in a social media debate and seemed to the people who participated there at the beginning as surprising as that, huh, then such a solution! But when we considered it, it began to feel that it was the least administrative burden and the most purposeful solution. Once again, I stress that the primary objective is for the municipality to offer a kindergarten or childcare place, the cost of which is regulated by the School Advantage Act and which should be affordable for every family. For example, if a single parent cannot pay for such a place, the municipality should offer him this service for a smaller amount. And all municipalities actually comply with this requirement.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U159	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U160	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, You said that this was a draft with an extremely high level of responsibility. I'm saying the opposite. Once you have read the Constitution, you know that according to the Constitution, the local government must not be entrusted with any task that the state does not cover with money. I'm not going to tell everyone about the Supreme Court ruling. In spite of this resolution, you impose an additional obligation on the municipality, which has been decided by someone on the side. How can such a thing be possible? You tell the municipality that this obligation must be fulfilled. What does the local government have to do about it? Does the state cover it? So far, it has been the responsibility of the state to pay parental benefit. How do you solve this by simply imposing an additional obligation on the local government without allocating money and saying, "Be nice and do it"? It's against the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U161	Thank you for this very good question. We do not assign a single mouse-tailed task to the local government. Local government already has an unshakable obligation to offer absolutely every child who has reached 1.5 years of age until his/her schooling on the next working day following the submission of a parent's application to a day-care centre or up to three years of age to a day-care centre. This is the absolute responsibility of the local government and has been met with great success by the majority of municipalities. If the local government violates the law and does not comply with this obligation, we do not think it is normal that the affected party is a family with a small child. Especially as my good colleague Barbi Pilvre pointed out, a single-parent family. A single parent really has nowhere to leave a child, and he is forced to stay home from work. We simply do not accept it, and I believe that it is actually our general attitude that we do not accept the outright violation of the law. That is why we have proposed such a way of providing assurance on how to protect the family if the local government violates the law. Once again, I stress that this is not in any way a new obligation for the local government. Already, any child of at least 1.5 years of age whose parent wishes to do so must be offered a day-care centre or a day-care centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U162	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Liisa-Ly Pakosta! I would like to ask for a co-report from Andrus Saare, a member of the Cultural Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U163	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The first reading of Bill 791 was on the agenda of the Committee on Culture on 12 January. As representative of the Isamaa and Res Publica Association, Liisa-Ly Pakosta presented the draft and the Ministry of Education and Research presented the position of the Legal Department lawyer Indrek Kilk. The representative of the initiator of the draft law also gave the Commission a long and comprehensive overview, just as he did here today on the board. He commented on and raised objections to the written opinion of the Ministry of Education and Research. Liisa has just explained all this in this Chamber for a long time. In addition to the discussion between the representative of the Ministry and the representative of the initiator of the draft, questions and opinions were also raised by the members of the Commission. I'll name some of them. One Member of the Commission felt that the objective was noble in every way, but that it did not consider the implementation of the draft as such to be very realistic. Several members of the Commission considered that this was a national function and should continue to be the case. One member of the Commission wondered whether it would not be possible for local authorities to share kindergarten places according to the amount of parental benefit granted to someone when implementing this law. That's what Liisa was talking about here today. In the Commission, he replied that this was not possible because kindergarten places had to be divided according to the order of the day. The discussion wasn't very long. In conclusion, the Commission decided to place a draft of 791 on the agenda of the plenary session by 20 January and to appoint me rapporteur , these decisions were consensual. The proposal to terminate first reading was voted in favour of two members of the Commission, 4 against and 2 abstentions. Consequently, the Commission's proposal is to reject this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-01-20_U164	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft at first reading, and we will vote through it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the leading committee 791 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 32 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 17 against, with one abstention. The draft has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda has been exhausted. I wish everyone a beautiful day! See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 12.32 p.m.
