ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will start the second working week session of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. No one wants to do that. Then I'll pass on the messages. Following the end of today's sitting, the following parliamentary groups will meet in this Chamber: the Estonian-Slovakia parliamentary group, convened by Kalle Palling, and the Estonian-Hungarian parliamentary group, convened by Mailis Reps. Two support groups will also be set up: the Rail Baltic Support Group, convened by Kalle Palling, and the Regional Policy Support Group, convened by Aivar Kokk. Now we're going to do a presence check. There are 96 members of the Riigikogu, no 5.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U2	The following topic has been added to our agenda pursuant to §56 (1) (1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure Act: Deciding to give the Prime Minister candidate appointed by the President of the Republic the power to form a government to Taavi Rõivas. This procedure is carried out on the basis of § 131 of the Home and Working Procedures Act. In order not to have to read the law, let me briefly remind you how it is done. According to the Constitution, the prime minister candidate will present a report to the Riigikogu on the basis of the establishment of a future government. The Prime Minister's candidate has expressed his wish to appear before the Riigikogu at today's session. The Prime Minister's candidate, Taavi Rõivas, will make a presentation on the basis of the formation of the government, which will last up to 25 minutes. If he wants to talk a little more, he may want to extend it. Members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to ask up to two oral questions to the candidate Prime Minister. Article 131 (2) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu is not negotiated. The final vote shall be taken after the questions have been answered. The power to set up a government for the prime minister candidate is decided by the Riigikogu by a majority vote. Let us begin the processing of this item. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U3	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! Good Estonian people! A common desktop decoration consisting of metal balls hung in a row with strings, is called Newton's cradle. I'm sure you've seen a device like this, and you probably have tried it with your hand. If the extreme bullet is allowed to fall free, it will carry its impulse and energy to the next bullet, it will carry it to the next and so on until the last bullet in the line moves, even if the intermediate seemingly does not move a gram. Anno 2015 is exactly the kind of country Estonia has created for us and our predecessors. The impulses from the past are an incentive for future processes. Like the metal bullets in Newton's cradle, decisions in this hall often write a far more distant history than we can imagine. Every new government and Riigikogu can continue where the previous one ended. At the beginning of the coalition talks, all the parties in the meeting decided to do differently from the previous Government Union Treaty. We decided to ask ourselves what are the most necessary processes for Estonia that we want to get started with this government or to complete it. We did not start chapter by chapter to compile the programme, but formulated Estonia's major challenges. These are also the main objectives of the government, which are the basis of all government activities. Honourable Riigikogu! Our first major challenge is to ensure that Estonia is even better protected. The last year has been an extremely difficult time for our national security. At the same time, this time has proved the correct political and practical choices made and provided Estonia with the best protection. The challenges that have arisen because of the general increase in aggression in Russia and the aggression directly against Ukraine continue to affect the security of our country, and not only in the next four years, but, unfortunately, for a long time. In order to ensure the survival of our country today, tomorrow and for many generations to come, the Government of the Social Democratic Party, the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union and the Reform Party will continue to pursue a determined, coherent and well-thought-out security and defence policy. We will continue to implement a broad approach to national defence to ensure that society as a whole is able to resist the attack, we would have the ability to resolve hybrid conflicts quickly, society would be united, and we would have a high degree of willingness to oppose the information war. To this end, we will continue to work on the organisation of national defence laws and further develop comprehensive national defence planning to ensure greater clarity about the resources available in the country and the role each of us plays in the practical implementation of national defence. The dissemination of national defence expertise and best practices is also essential. The Government Union Treaty provides for the organisation of free-of-charge national defence courses for all persons and the progressive compulsoryisation of national defence education at upper secondary school level. We also foresee the involvement of think tanks in shaping national defence policy. Those who do not defend themselves are not protected by others. The Estonian national defence shield remains the primary independent defence capability and the sword is NATO's collective defence. We will continue to develop military capabilities based on our threat assessments. Our brigades, battalions, companies and groups are important to Estonia, but the most important thing is every single fighter in these units. That is why we want to raise the prestige of the profession and military education in society, including improving the working environment and, of course, the training conditions of the Defence Forces, raising the salaries of the professional defence forces and the compensation of 50% of the conscripts. We will also continue to develop the idea of a protection salary in order to compensate all participants in reserve education for their remuneration on a fixed basis: 50% of the position and 50% of the current salary. We continue to recognise veterans who fought for the values and principles of the Estonian state in Estonian society. The agreement of this government union is clearly a real safeguard. That is why we keep the cost of the country's military defence at least 2% of GDP. We are constantly developing really equipped, equipped and trained units, not paper units and paper cannons for which we have neither money nor people. After maintaining this level of 2%, we will cover the costs of accepting allies in order to ensure their permanent presence in Estonia. It is important for this government union to be a military member of the NATO Allied Forces serving in Estonia and, of course, to strengthen defence cooperation with the United States. It is just as important, of course, to ensure national security. For the centenary of the Republic, we must have a built-up eastern border of Estonia, including a technical surveillance system worthy of the external borders of the European Union and NATO, and well-trained and equipped border guard units. We will continue to develop the capabilities of the Police and Border Guard Board to reduce duplication and increase the responsiveness and speed of emergency services, police and border guards. We have agreed to double the number of police officers with rapid response capability and to further develop cooperation with structures with the corresponding function of the Defence Forces and the Defence League. We consider it necessary to improve the working conditions of police and rescue workers and to increase the presence of regional police officers, particularly at the eastern border. Anyone who wishes to contribute on a voluntary basis to the internal security of Estonia must have the opportunity to do so, and the preconditions supporting it must also be created. Another major challenge is to ensure that the Estonian economy grows and the incomes of the Estonian people increase. Between 2000 and 2013, Estonia's prosperity grew threefold. This is an exceptionally rapid growth in comparison with countries. There is no need to change the foundations of economic policy that has brought Estonia success. We will continue with a simple tax system with few exceptions, fair business competition and an open economy, prudent fiscal policy and an economic environment open to capital. We prefer to reduce the taxation of labour by increasing the taxation of goods which are harmful to health and polluting the environment. We have agreed to reduce the social tax rate and increase the tax-free minimum. The reduction in labour taxes will not have an immediate impact on growth in the next quarter; such changes will often have an impact in several years' time. Of course, we would like to take even greater steps, but determined and consistent new impulses will ensure that we do not deviate from the right course. To continue to grow rapidly, Estonia's products and services must be highly value-added and oriented towards export markets. We need to do things even smarter than global competitors. A wise economy, of course, starts with wise people. We can contribute to the growth of knowledge and skills through lifelong learning, closer links between vocational training and entrepreneurship, research and development, and, of course, with all general education, which is very important in the government union agreement. However, a knowledge-based economy can only be achieved if we invest in knowledge. We have agreed that we will always keep the share of education spending above 6% of our GDP above the majority of the countries of the European Union. The third major challenge facing us is to ensure that economic growth reaches everyone and that people's livelihoods improve. The country must exist for those who need it most. The government union that is being created wants all Estonian people to be part of economic growth, and no one will be left behind. We have agreed, under the leadership of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, to provide additional support for those people whose income is between the minimum wage and the three times minimum subsistence. The purpose of this new system is to alleviate wage poverty and help people improve their lives. The ambition of the government coalition to raise the minimum wage to at least 45% of the average wage over four years will contribute to improving the lives of those who receive lower wages, but the representative organisations of employees and employers must reach it together. The minimum wage will continue to be a matter of agreement between the social partners, but the country can also contribute to its growth by its own methods. Special attention will be paid to children, the elderly and people with special needs. We will ensure that the objectives set out in the cooperation agreement on labour capacity reform are met with the social partners. One of the major reforms of the outgoing government must be completed and implemented successfully through implementing provisions. In order to support families in need, we will raise the income support rate to 130 euros, almost one-and-a-half times. This is a significant increase, the biggest increase in income support over the last ten years. We have agreed to create a support fund to support single parents living in coping difficulties. Surely we have not forgotten the most dignified of the elderly. We will ensure an increase in pensions in line with wage growth and keep the average old-age pension exempt from income tax. I have already made a personal commitment in the past to the creation of a system to improve the livelihood of pensioners living alone. This is necessary to deal with the elderly in the most difficult situation. The most important of the major challenges is that Estonia should survive and have more children. Europe's national populations are ageing and everyone is facing difficult challenges in terms of employment policy and changing the social system. Estonia is no exception here. However, these changes are even more visible in a country with a low population. In order to respond to demographic challenges, action needs to be taken now, as the results of these processes will not come to fruition in decades' time. We have to look far enough into the future. Although this seems to be a distant time, the positive decisions made by this government will have an impact on Estonia's 150th anniversary. I do not hesitate to admit for a moment that the Social Democratic Party offered the most solutions to improve the livelihood of families with children, as Sven Mikser emphasised only two hours ago in the White Hall of the Riigikogu. A single government union of three partners will further develop a demographically functioning family policy by raising the first and second child's allowance to EUR 60, starting with the third child, we will continue to pay EUR 100 per month and, in addition, we will pay EUR 200 for each family raising three and more children. We will ensure that each young person has the opportunity to participate in sport and recreational activities by creating a support system for national, comprehensive and targeted interest activities. We support local governments with state investment in creating kindergarten places for everyone who wants and needs them. We will increase the funding for home support for families with child-rich families and give families with three children in need the opportunity to receive home support for families with child-rich families when acquiring housing. These are just some of the activities agreed upon by this government association, which aim to give young families the confidence that is a prerequisite for more children to be born. The fifth challenge in my own wording is innovative Estonia, the organisation of our country even better. Some say that what needs to be done should bear the name of the state reform. That's what you call it. But state reform cannot be an indiscriminate reversal of things. Effectiveness is important. Like a year ago, I am also saying today that we have no reason to dismantle what has been built by previous governments, but should use it as a foundation on which to continue building a successful system. Therefore, everyone can choose whether to call it a very ambitious state reform or, more simply, an innovative Estonia. But clearly, no one can rest on laurels. Every minister, every public official always has to look for ways to do things more efficiently, how to use taxpayers' money even more efficiently. In order to better organise the state, the government association has agreed to reform the local administration. This is a very big reform that will affect Estonia for decades and even longer after its implementation. In the process of reforming our local administration, our aim is to have municipalities that can provide better public services to people and ensure that the regions' competitiveness is increased and can perform the tasks assigned to them by law on their own. The coalition agreement includes a way to increase the capacity of Estonian local governments in carrying out their tasks. Less able municipalities will be helped to move to the next level of cooperation. In order to halt peripheralisation, we place an important emphasis on the development of entrepreneurship in local governments, because jobs are a necessary prerequisite for viability elsewhere than in the capitals of power and spirit. The self-evident part of an innovative Estonia is the development of an e-governance. When I spoke to Jean-Claude Juncker last summer, he said that it is elementary that a Commissioner from Estonia will be responsible for the development of Europe's digital field. Our e-state is known and recognised worldwide from the American President to every single e-resident. In an innovative Estonia, the "hand down, ten temples on top and between covers" principle is no longer produced. All public services, wherever possible, must be able to be used digitally, which improves the functioning of the state and makes the public sector more efficient. Dear Riigikogu! In many ways, the incoming government will remain in good or less good words to recall how we will manage the whole of Europe in the first half of 2018. Then the eyes of the whole of Europe will be turned on us. Let us remember that next time, Estonia will probably have to hold the Presidency only in 2032. Therefore, a small and ambitious country cannot afford to hold a less ambitious Presidency. The Estonian Presidency in 2018 is the sixth major challenge of this government. While preparing to join the European Union in 2003, author Mihkel Mutt asked whether and who could cough in the European Union. He then replied that coughing can be done both smartly and humbly, but Estonia should cough with dignity. Europe's strength and unity are the result of an active and broad dialogue, an intensive exchange of ideas, including coughing, if you will allow. The current security and economic situation is particularly clear on the importance of a common vision as a result of this dialogue. Europe needs to move towards a stronger security and internal security policy, energy policy, monetary union and the internal market and an inclusive labour market. We also need to promote the interests of European companies and the protection of citizens in third countries. We don't have to sit here in a cowardly corner like a pop. We see Estonia participating in this process as a dignified, idea-filled and also curious partner, a country that bears European values and is interested in valuing and promoting the four fundamental freedoms of the European Union. This is what we are expected to do in 2018 for the common European interests. Around 500 initiatives will arrive at the Presidency's table within six months and we must successfully lead nearly 3000 meetings. About a thousand people are involved in the preparation and implementation of the Presidency from among the current civil servants, each of whom we are preparing separately for a new responsibility role. This common journey cannot be carried like swans, pikes and cancer, so we are committed to preparing the Estonian Presidency of the European Union. This is a joint effort by the whole of Estonia, and all ministers will stand for the future of Europe and the well-being of all Europeans during this period as so-called Euro Ministers. We do so with dignity when we can both move and keep our borders, push and sympathy, seek consensus, but not accept the smallest common part. The experience and skills gained and the relations created allow us to do the Estonian and European business on a completely new level even after the end of the Presidency. As President-in-Office, Estonia wants to cough with dignity and also with memory, as it is appropriate for a very youthful 100-year-old. Good listeners! Finally, I would like to thank the Socialists and Members of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union with all my heart. You did not make it easy to negotiate a government union, but I understand you very well because you stood up for your constituents and your programmed promises. We did the same thing, didn't we? I also thank the members of the Free Party for your contribution, which was not small at all. Although your signatures have not been signed today in a government union agreement, I believe that we can count on your support in the Riigikogu on some points, because we have agreed on these matters jointly. It's probably no secret to any of you that this government treaty was born very hard, through a gray stone. We decided from the very beginning that we would not only like to agree on a minimum commonality between three parties with different world views. It would have been quite simple, it has always been done. We agreed on major challenges, goals and ways to move Estonia forward. The results of this government union's work will be defined in the future not only by what is stated in the treaty, but above all by the will to implement what has been agreed. We can be sure that nothing happens by itself. If necessary, you must also persevere in going through the gray stone, four years, together. Just like it was for those 38 days from the election to the coalition agreement. It is precisely in thinking of the determination, persistence and firmness of the three partners that I would name the government union that will be created in accordance with the traditions of the Riigikogu. That name is a conspiracy. That is right, determinedly, steadfastly and persistently, we are ready to move forward together in order to implement the treaty as well. That is precisely why I am asking you today for a mandate! Our work starts tomorrow. When I compared the work of the outgoing government to that of a ten-kilometer race, now we're at the start of the marathon. Strength, endurance and continued perseverance for us to do this! Thank you! Long live Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U4	Now the questions of the members of the Riigikogu for the candidate Prime Minister. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U5	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! You have decided to make Kristen Michal Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. This minister must be most responsible for the prudent and fair management of state assets in Estonia. However, it is known that a few years ago there were some concerns about this person, which have seriously called into question its suitability for this post. Since these doubts were not confirmed or refuted, the question eventually came to a great extent to the faith. Prime Minister Andrus Ansip has said that he believes Kristen Michal. Here's my question: Prime candidate Taavi Rõivas, do you believe in Kristen Michal?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U6	Thank you. Not only do I believe in Kristen Michal, but I believe in all the members of the government that is now resigning and in the members of my future governments. I am always willing to protect them from public attacks, and also from non-public attacks. In the political office, as we all know, I think that there are very few people in this Chamber who have not experienced it or have not seen it at close sight, there are very many attacks to endure. Sometimes they're mean, sometimes they're personal. I certainly intend to protect the members of my government from such attacks, just as I have done at my best in the case of the current government.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U7	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Taavi in Clothes! I'm looking at the coalition agreement and I'm saying again that once again the government led by the Reform Party is looking at getting money in the state budget, how to take something away from someone. For example, the aim is to increase excise duties on fuel, to collect more VAT on excise duty and to make life more expensive. But I do not see how you intend to earn more money in the state budget, for example, to develop industrial production, to grow the wealth of society, but certainly also to bring people to the Estonian state and back here. Where are those subjects? I do not think that shifting tax rates is sustainable, i.e. stagnation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U9	Thank you. Directing taxation from labour taxation to taxation on harmful consumption, including alcohol and tobacco consumption, as well as on environmentally harmful fuel consumption has been a clear choice. You claimed that the description of excise increases was specifically included in the agreement, but there was no mention of business development policy. This shows that you have not been able to read this agreement yet, because it is actually exactly the opposite. We haven't made a secret of the sources of the treaty, but they're not part of the treaty, they're not in the treaty. However, this agreement has been very thorough about how the Estonian economy can grow, including how to develop entrepreneurship, and not only in Estonia as a whole, but also in those places that are further away from the major centres. Partners with different world views approached these issues slightly differently. As a whole, I think it is very good that the picture of capital, manpower and also geographical distribution is balanced. The investment of capital in Estonia will continue to be favourable. A great deal of attention is devoted to ensuring that people's education, knowledge and skills meet the demands of the labour market. This too is part of the prerequisite for economic growth. Thirdly, the agreement, of course, has given a great deal of attention to the fact that not all jobs will be in Tallinn or around Tallinn. I think it's just as important.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U10	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Clothes! During this whole process, and now reading this text, I noticed that a lot of words such as 'analyse', 'weighing','support', 'continent' have been used. In addition, the treaty contains a number of things that the state will do anyway. When you were talking about the marathon race and perseverance, we in our group discussed that this coalition might rather be called a stall coalition. I have the impression that this famous Excel chart, which was very much discussed, missed or unfinished. You said it was out there somewhere. In any case, this is not to be seen here as part of the agreement. I therefore have a question for you. In the view of the four years, give the Riigikogu an overview of how excise duties on fuel will rise, what happens to VAT on hotels, what tax exemptions will disappear or be reduced, what comes from interest on housing loans, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U12	Thank you. That the agreement has set out a number of major objectives, as well as the specific targets that are to be reached, I think, must still be recognised from the perspective of both the parties to the government union and the opposition. These goals do not come true in themselves; they need to work very hard for them. As far as the sources of cover are concerned, as in the previous agreements of the Government Union, there is no 'Excel' format between the covers, but we have not, since the beginning, made a secret of where we want to find cover for the large costs stipulated in the treaty. First of all, the same increase in excise duties on fuel, alcohol and tobacco that you referred to. The increase in fuel excise duty has been spread over the years in such a way that the impact on the final fuel price does not exceed 5% per year, rather between 4% and 5%. We know that changes in oil prices have made fuel prices considerably more volatile. You mentioned a mortgage interest tax credit. There's no intention of losing it. The abolition of the VAT exemption for tourism enterprises is a topical issue from 2017. We recognise that, in order to do this, it is still necessary to organise a very large-scale advertising campaign, so that the most vulnerable enterprises in the tourism sector do not lose a tenth because of the increase in prices, as customers disappear. It will not be possible to implement it immediately from tomorrow; it will need a longer period of preparation. These are the biggest sources of cover. These include neither the increase in the income tax rate nor the many other things proposed by the parties when the four others were still negotiating. This is the option: instead of increased taxation on labour, more harmful consumption needs to be taxed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U13	Honourable members of the Riigikogu, please ask a question within one minute! Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Clothe! I was once at an event where Bo Kragh, a well-known Swedish economist, performed. He was asked how he would compare the Estonian economic model. He said it was like a bummer's physical laws say he can't fly, but he's still flying for some reason. What are we talking about now? Still, according to Statistics Estonia, our external trade balance has been negative in the last 21 years and, overall, it is EUR 29 billion, EUR 966 million. If it were to be converted into current prices, it would have to be EUR 42 to 44 billion. We live in debt and take debt from future generations. Could this situation change during your reign? What foreign trade balance do you predict to the Estonian people this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U15	I will try to answer as briefly as I can. As you probably know, I have received university education in the field of the external economy. I would therefore like to discuss this issue with you at length. But briefly, Estonia is a small and open economy, that is clear. Our foreign trade balance is very much affected by the fact that many durable goods, such as cars or televisions, are not produced in Estonia. All the televisions that are in Estonian homes, all the cars we drive, if you just give us a few examples, including computers, for example, as well as phones and a number of other durables that make up quite a large part of the cost, are all the things we buy in from other countries. This will certainly affect our trade balance. What can we do to ensure that this balance sheet is balanced? Of course, exports must be promoted. I do not believe that we should apply import restrictions. I do not know of any very good examples where protectionism would have brought prosperity to the yard, on the contrary. Our luck is that our home market is 500 million Europeans. Our consistent interest, I hope, will continue in the next few years, is to do everything to make Estonian entrepreneurs feel at home in this market, and this market will become even more unified. We know that there are still, and there are, objective obstacles to the European internal market, why services cannot, in particular, move freely from one country to another. But I am an optimist on this matter. I really believe that we can contribute to making it possible for Estonian companies to export even more. As far as living in debt is concerned, as a country, we do not intend to continue living in debt. The text of the Government Union Treaty also clearly states how public finances can be maintained in good order.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U16	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U17	Thank you. Dear Taavi in the garment! There is an interesting point in your signed coalition agreement concerning the refund system. People are given the opportunity to recover a certain amount each year, taking into account the minimum wage and the poverty threshold. However, all three of you who signed this agreement will see the system differently. I understand that the IRL sees it so that a person earning a minimum wage can get back more with this scheme than he has paid income tax in a year. It is also said that it is possible to recover all people who earn less than 500 euros per month, i.e. nearly 200,000 people. Then it is said that it costs almost nothing, EUR 16 million per year, which means that these expenditures are only planned for 20,000 people. Please explain who will get this refund! Can and how can it all be so cheap?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U18	Thank you. It is difficult to explain this very briefly. This applies to all people who work full-time and earn up to three times the minimum wage, which is currently around 600 euros. Of course, all these figures will change over time. The idea that you have rightly identified is that this is an IRL proposal to help people who work but whose salary income is not enough to cope with everyday life. By the way, the same thing, although with a slightly different method, this point, which came into agreement on the initiative of the Socialists, deals with the increase in the minimum wage. Both of these points deal with the same subject. In fact, these points, which have become part of the treaty on the proposal of the Reform Party, contribute to economic growth and job creation and contribute to increasing the income of those who earn the least. So it's been everyone's common desire, even though the methods are different. We have a deal here. The amount you mentioned is not true; it should certainly be multiplied by more than two. But it is also clear that the details of the system still need to be developed. I believe that, in the end, this system fulfils the objective that the IRL has wanted to achieve and also promised voters.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U19	George Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U20	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Taavi in Clothes! Point 3.2 of your coalition agreement allows you to raise the tax-free minimum to EUR 205 per month. It is commendable that the amount of the tax-free minimum once again moves forward. Several voters in Harju and Raplamaa told me before the elections that they were very sympathized with the Reform Party's plan to increase the tax-free minimum to about EUR 308. Which partner now drew that promise from EUR 308 to EUR 205? Was it the soccer or was it the IRL?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U21	Thank you, George, for this very funny question. After all, each party made its own plans and programmes in the hope that it would be possible to implement them 100% if it were to receive 51 seats in Parliament alone. I have to admit, this time we didn't make it, and it didn't work out exactly the same way for anyone else. Therefore, Estonia will continue with the coalition government. It set before us not only the need, but it can be said that the obligation to compromise and to look together for what things are happening and to what extent they are not. We have not made it a secret that, yes, the Reform Party also made concessions in places that mattered to us, our partners also made them. But ultimately, no one had to give up or withdraw from the principles that are most important to everyone. It's very important. In addition, we agreed on other very important issues that everyone thinks are important. So it cannot be said that one or the other partner would have brought that promise down, rather the other way round. It was in many ways a common thing, because in a way or another, with minor differences, no matter what amount, however, most parties, if not to say that everyone wanted the income tax free minimum to grow in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U22	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U23	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! The current maritime policy implementation plan sets an ambitious target for 30 large cargo ships to be flying the flag of Estonia by 2020. So to speak, the road to this was to be developed by 30 June last year, and Minister Palo extended this period until 15 September, and then the working group made these proposals. In the new coalition agreement, we find a point on maritime policy that begins with the word 'thinking', like many others. I am interested in what the concrete current coalition will do to make the tax environment and everything else so competitive that the ships come back under the Estonian flag. Estonian shipowners have nearly 70 ships flying under the flags of other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U24	Thank you. There was indeed a very serious debate on this subject. It's not as simple as taking paper, writing the law, then saying that it is now, no one is arguing, and the situation will be resolved. We admitted during the talks that this is a complex problem and that solutions still need to be sought here. The work of the government union did not come to an end with this agreement, but it was just beginning. It is also important to look at the fact that the agreement states that we are looking for solutions to solve the problem you have highlighted in a way or another. I admit that we do not currently have a ready solution that will work 100% confidently. The aim was to write it down, then it becomes part of the official government union's work plan, a deadline and a specific responsibility. Once the solution has been developed in the ministry, it will be possible to discuss it in the government. That's the action plan. We admit that there is no ready solution that can be implemented from tomorrow. This subject is a little more complex and needs to be dealt with in greater depth.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U25	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Taavi in the garment! The good level of Estonian science is well-known in the world. Is and how the government that is to be created intends to implement and implement what is stated in the 'Knowledge-based Estonia' strategy? In other words, does the funding of Estonian research from the state budget increase to 1% in the next few years?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U27	Thank you. Not only has this matter been dealt with as such in the agreement of the government union that is being created, but it has been the official strategy of Estonia for a long time. I admit that in previous years the steps towards 1% have not always been very long, there have also been setbacks, but that does not mean that the pursuit of this direction should not continue. In the field of science, we have a lot of specific places where we want to do things even better. In addition to this numerical target, spending is not an end in itself, but at the same time allocating 1% of public expenditure to R &amp; D is certainly a very important indicator, let us say, to change compared to the current one, we can certainly see that the combined impact of science and the economy, science and businesses on growth can be increased. The Academy of Sciences could also be more involved in solving the strategic tasks facing the Estonian state. I have discussed this with the leaders of the Academy of Sciences several times, and I know that they also have this readiness. So I would like to hope that in the next four years, scientists will also have a greater voice in making strategic decisions. This certainly also concerns the work of Parliament, not just the work of the government. Parliament could also, in my view, have the opportunity to use more input from the Academy of Sciences to solve the most important problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U28	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U29	Thank you, manager. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! One of the main topics of the elections was national security. Unfortunately, when reading the coalition agreement, there is no point on food security. Estonian farmers have faced great difficulties, with a herd of pigs being eradicated, tens of thousands of pigs being eradicated. It's so bad that even one government has had to take over a pig farm and start feeding pigs. The reason is that unlike the rest of the European Union, our country does not pay the farmer an additional top-up. Our farmer has been placed in a very unequal competitive position. Before the elections, the Social Democrats and the IRL promised to restore the top-up, but when I read the government coalition agreement, I can see it's not in there. Can you tell me what or who prevented the Snots and the IRL from fulfilling this election promise?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U30	This is one of the issues that will probably arise in all the next budgetary discussions. It is clear that the most important issues, which are the most expensive and the most priority for political parties, are already pre-arranged sources of cover in the agreement or in a supplementary document to the agreement or in a side document, however to take it, booked. I admit we don't have a good source of cover for top-up right now. Proposals will probably also come from the opposition during the budget talks. I think I would be very naive if I were to say that this issue does not arise during the budget negotiations. It'll probably get up. But when it comes to agriculture and rural development in general, I certainly would not see it in such black tones. In fact, very many things have already been done so that the Estonian agricultural sector can also overcome the sanctions imposed by the Russian Federation. The search for alternative markets has been very successful in Anne Sulling, our colleague in Parliament. Very many things could be continued and Estonian farmers supported. Support does not always mean that money is paid from the state budget, sometimes it is much more valuable to have a door opened to Estonian producers, for example in Japan, but perhaps elsewhere. You have to think about that, and there are certainly many of them. We know that in the coming years we will be talking about hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros going directly into agricultural subsidies.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U31	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! The coalition agreement has a thrilling number of places where people with disabilities or special needs are spoken. Even in the introductory part, special attention is paid to the elderly, children, and people with special needs. Unfortunately, my optimism decreased when I read that the new government is planning to start analysing the situation of people with disabilities and the functioning of the benefit system. This topic has already been analysed and studied over the years, from the Ministry of Social Affairs to Praxis and the National Audit Office. We all know very well that, for example, disability benefits have not been raised since 2006. We also know that children with disabilities, 37.3% of them, live in poverty. We know that the real needs are not met. The question is this: does the new government have to increase disability benefits, especially for children, over the next four years, apart from the analysis plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U33	Thank you, good questioner! We have dealt with these issues together. I think that Estonia is such a mature country to give even more attention to those among us who need this attention somewhat more. This concerns all parts of life: there must be access to public services; in society people with special needs should be taken exactly the same as everyone else. It's a very complex theme circle. All municipalities should be able to provide the services necessary for people with special needs. There are a lot of these issues, and there would certainly be plenty of time for us to talk for hours. Your particular question was about supporting children with disabilities. Yes, we are planning to significantly increase the care allowance paid to parents of children with deep disabilities. We're talking about a multiple slope. There's a plan, and I'm sure it'll come true. I cannot allow us to raise absolutely everyone and all the benefits, but the subject of parents of children with deep disabilities was on a separate table. We have decided on this very significant increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U34	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good candidate! It is a pleasure to read that you support small farms and small businesses. I think the Free Party has also contributed here. But what are the specific methods with which you want to support small farms? Are these fiscal investments? You previously referred to emotional, moral support. I would like to point out that, once again, the person living in the country suffers the most from the increase in excise duties on fuel. A man living on Earth can't stand to watch him run, he'll vote with his feet, and he'll decide to leave.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U36	Thank you. No, I do not agree that due to the rise in excise duties on fuel, a rural man loses more than a city man. We have planned an increase in excise duties so that its impact on the final fuel price would be less than 5% a year. If we look at what the initial component of the fuel is doing at the same time, if you could say so, or the world oil market, we'll see that the fluctuation is in this multiple. We know that this will significantly affect the final price more than the increase in excise duty. However, I would not see this particular change in such black tones. All the more so because the fuel also has a very clear environmental dimension. If, as a result of this increase, some people choose to choose their next car in favour of a more sustainable car, then this change has come to the fore, and the costs of these people may not even increase at all. Now I'm talking about supporting small farms. Yeah, you're right, that's what got into the deal with your party, and I'm happy about that. I think that both the ministers responsible for the economy and the minister responsible for rural affairs will certainly have the opportunity to listen carefully to your proposals. If you have any concrete ideas other than what the government has written into the treaty, I think they're ready to talk about them. If a common section is found, why not put it into practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U37	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U38	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Taavi in Clothes! I would like to ask a question on behalf of Estonian farmers. The coalition agreement shows that the top-up is not to be paid and the Ministry of Rural Affairs is to replace the Ministry of Agriculture. Unfortunately, as the last few years have shown, the life of Estonian farmers depends in many ways on state policy. Currently, most dairy farms work at a loss, which is very important for Estonia. The farms hope that the situation will change in the near future. Are we expecting positive changes, or is it easier to shut down dairy farms and go another way? Please do not forget that it is not possible to temporarily suspend the work of the dairy farm and to start again in a few years' time. Does the abolition of the Ministry of Agriculture mean that agriculture is not a priority for the new government?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U39	Thank you. I'll start at the end of the question. On the contrary, we are extending the mandate of the Ministry of Agriculture. The responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture will not be reduced by a gram, but will be increased so that it is possible to deal more and more with rural areas, including rural entrepreneurship, as well as with the subject that Külliki Kübarsepp asked about. It is not just agriculture that is being dealt with on the ground, so this is a somewhat wider range of themes that we want to prioritise. As far as the buying-in price for milk is concerned, you are right that this price has fallen by about half compared to its peak. But we know the role of the government here is very small. The role behind this is, to some extent, the role of another government behind our eastern border, who said that Estonian milk is no longer suitable for them. All right, well, if it doesn't work, you can't sell it, you have to drink more or find new markets. What has been done by our current colleague in the Riigikogu, Anne Sulling, Minister of Foreign Trade and Entrepreneurship, in search of new markets for Estonian dairy producers, for example in Japan, I mentioned it earlier, is still on the way. Real agreements have been concluded, but their impact on the price of milk has not yet been manifested, because as far as I know about this subject In my opinion, the search for markets should continue in any case. This should not only be dealt with by the Minister Urve Palo, who is now responsible for a specific area of responsibility, but by all ministers. I myself have a little more than a year's experience as Prime Minister that when going to other countries with a business delegation, it is possible to open doors that a single Estonian entrepreneur or a group of entrepreneurs would never be able to open. If you go with the minister, no matter what field minister this is at the moment, it may be the Minister of Defence who goes to defence companies, but it may be any kind of minister in the field, then by opening these doors, as we can see from this example concerning the dairy industry, it is possible to help Estonian entrepreneurs. I really believe in it, and I hope that not only a minister in a specific area, but all ministers will be prepared, if necessary, to open these doors with a business delegation in their field.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U40	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Honourable Prime Minister in speed! The Ministry of the Environment has already been made redundant a quarter of a century ago in the management of Estonia's basic natural resources, so it is right that you plan to bring planning back to where it was before. However, why are you taking our mineral management from the Ministry of the Environment to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U42	Thank you. Yesterday I had a very pleasant opportunity to visit the Ministry of the Environment again for several years, as the current Minister for the Environment fulfilled yesterday in the 50th year. The subject you mentioned also came up with the people of the Ministry of the Environment. There are no differences in opinion as to whether the resources of the underground are more of an environmental issue or are the resources of the Estonian economy, we will take the biggest issue, or oil shale. But considering this subject is, I think, sensible and so it was said. Similarly, we can comment on a number of things that are specifically and explicitly decided to move one ministry from one field to another ministry, because every decision has its own logic behind it. In the same way, the Ministry of the Environment was very keen on the subject of fisheries. We know that in the past, the decision was made to divide this area between the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture. It is as if fishing has been divided, at least people who are more familiar with it than I have said, and we are considering whether a different distribution would be better. We do not want to take the view that what has been done must definitely remain so, not that we would necessarily want to break down, far from it, but the idea is that we always have to see if doing something different would be even better.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U43	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U44	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Good Taavi in Clothes! In your speech, you spent about seven minutes on defence, eight and a half to nine minutes on economic growth and similar education for one minute, for children, for the elderly and for people with special educational needs, and for sport and young people for about 30 seconds. Do you think that this is a sufficient argument, proof and inspiration that young mothers, school workers and school leaders can have confidence that Estonia is covered by a strong network of educational institutions, Estonia has a good perspective for giving birth to children and Estonia has a strong border of state, so that we do not want to leave here and can feel safe here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Prime Minister candidate! I read the coalition contract. It was a very interesting experience to read those places where the words 'analyse', 'consider', 'think'. My question concerns emigration. During the last Riigikogu elections, there were 97,000 persons permanently living abroad, in addition to their underage children, plus tens of thousands of people who work permanently abroad, in Finland and Sweden. This did not seem to be a major problem for the previous government coalition. Does the government that is now in office see this as a problem, and if so, what are the main measures to prevent emigration and facilitate the return of our countrymen to their homeland?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U46	Thank you. I have dealt with this issue several times in response to questions from Members of Parliament in this House. Those who were in the previous composition may know my position, but I will try to convey it again very briefly. We also discussed, of course, in the negotiations of the government union, the issue of people moving out of Estonia, but also the fact that people are moving from country to cities, which unfortunately has not been a trend in Estonia only. Let's take Finland. More people live there in cities. I don't think they like it so much that there's urbanization. I, by the way, very much like that one of our fellow Members in the Riigikogu has personally set an example as a promotional face and invited people to live in the country. But this probably does not really concern what you are interested in, i.e. emigration from the Estonian state. What would eliminate the more negative cause of emigration, the economic problem of leaving because otherwise it will not work, this coalition agreement is very serious, addressing both salaries and a number of services very, very seriously. The other half of the emigration is something I wouldn't want to put my hand on. This is when the people of Estonia go abroad either to complement themselves or to hunt their dreams in order to do something of the best in some area in the world. I know a lot of examples of people who, in Soviet times, would have wanted to go to another country to live their dreams, but could not have done so. Now the world is open, now it can be done, and politicians have no reason to put their hands on it, I think. This topic is much more complex. It cannot be said that any exodus and work or study abroad would be a problem. Studying abroad is an unambiguously positive phenomenon in my view and returning to Estonia with foreign experience in the same way. This issue has been addressed in a much more complex way. Several questions that are in the economic block or in the demographic block actually affect whether people find their place in Estonia or will leave here in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U47	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U48	Honourable Chairman! Dear Mr. Clothe! There have been reports from the press that there has been a significant increase in the resources involved in border surveillance, as all officials working in the PBGB are involved in border surveillance. Your speech made it sound that the activities of this office have changed and will continue to become more effective. In fact, the situation is that at the Estonian National Defence Academy, you will study in the field of border guard study, yes, two weeks of study in law enforcement subjects, but at the same time the number of subjects in the police field of study is zero. How do you think police officers can handle border surveillance without the proper knowledge? Or is it only one-sided that border guards go to police work?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U49	Thank you. It seems to me that you have already prepared a number of questions that can be asked by me, as the current Prime Minister, in Question Time, because this type of question should be answered by me, rather than by you as a candidate for Prime Minister in charge of your mandate. But when we talk about the coalition agreement, we really place a lot of emphasis on the border and on the people who work there. There are points in the deal that say directly that we are improving border security equipment, including arms. There are separate points for the task force and for cooperation between the fleets. The construction of both the Piusa cordon and the Narva border crossing point should not even be mentioned here in isolation. This is also mentioned separately, by the way, this is the first government union agreement in the history of Estonia, where it has been specifically said that we are building the eastern border with the most up-to-date technology. That's also in the point. The work of people working at the border makes it much easier if they can also use camera images from every single section of the border, in addition to trail strips and dogs. On the subject of education in a particular field of study, I would honestly say that we are not interfering in government-level school curricula. However, we do have the idea that young people who grow up near the eastern border of Estonia, either north-east or south-east, will in future be able to prepare for the so-called pre-vocational training in upper secondary school so that they can pursue their future career in border guards. We know that there are 700 people working on the eastern border alone. It makes perfect sense that some local youths who live in Värska, for example, do not think about moving to Tartu or Tallinn when making their career choices, but they already have this tiny and real opportunity to work there. Hundreds of people work in this same Piusa cordon, these are real jobs in Värska.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U50	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U51	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! It is no secret to any of us that Europe is groaning under pressure from mass migration in the face of various confusions in North Africa and many other places, and my question is due to this. There has been quite a lot of thinking that the arrival of immigrants should be regulated and that they should also be sent to countries in the European Union where immigration pressures are lower than in the Mediterranean countries, for example. My question is this: if such a subject were to be put on the table in the European Union, would it be right for the government that intends to take up office to veto it and refuse to accept immigrants on a massive basis or not to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U52	We are keeping this issue on the agenda, among other things, by supporting the creation of a register of both immigration and emigration. These processes, which are currently taking place in Europe to address pressure in this area, are also mentioned in the agreement. So far, we have not believed in Estonia that we should necessarily introduce some quotas under which each country must accept immigrants. I do not know whether there was a specific discussion of such a working group in the coalition negotiations, but it is not in the text of the agreement, so there is no reason to assume that we should change Estonia's policy to date. This is also not the point of the coalition agreement, but there is one topic where I think we should have room for flexibility and understanding, although, of course, within all the rules. I am thinking of the fact that there are very many people left homeless in Ukraine. This is a concern that certainly affects us, because very many Ukrainians have relatives in Estonia. It is certainly important for Estonian society if the people who have been left homeless in Ukraine because of the war want to come to Estonia temporarily or for longer to live near their relatives.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U53	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U54	First of all, I would like to stress that this agreement is not a Reform Party agreement, it is a deal of three equal parties. But on behalf of my party, I can say that in our programme, a copy of which I am happy to send you, it is written that we are shifting the tax burden from labour taxation to taxation of harmful consumption. That is exactly what we said before the elections. As far as I know, there is no party in the Estonian Parliament, at least there was no previous composition, I really have to admit that I do not know exactly about your party's views on this issue, any party that would have opposed the rise in excise duties on alcohol or tobacco. But this calculation you asked for, how do you do it? If we take a person who consumes a lot of alcohol and smokes a lot, then for him the total effect of government policy may be a negative sign, even if labour taxes are also falling for him. If we take the person who is a parent and where we add child benefits to the effect, and assume that he does not smoke or drink excessive alcohol, his income will certainly increase. And if there are three or more children in his family, his income will increase, you might say, exponentially.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U55	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! I thank you for reminding the Free Party with a good word, but I must say here that the core of the Free Party's democratic package was very far from the coalition agreement. You have quite empty points here under the title of parliamentary democracy. But I specifically ask one of them, that is point 4.29, where it is said that we are analysing the possibilities of stimulating political competition, including the ceiling on advertising costs. And a whole bunch of things have been mentioned there. This disturbingly frequently occurring form of uncertainty 'analyze' is one thing; the second question mark is the sentence: 'We seek consensus when introducing changes. ' What consensus is expected from the Reform Party when it comes to proposing a campaign cost ceiling? All I remember is a heated argument.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U57	It is true that, in the case of the democratic package, our cooperation in the formation of a government union was not complete. The reasons were somewhat different. You said that it would not make sense to continue in the same format anymore, and a little bit of it would have been behind your back to discuss all the things that you thought were right in this package. At the same time, we jointly reached the view that it would be reasonable not only to seek consensus in the government union, but throughout Parliament on how to increase political competition. Personally, I do not like it when, with these amendments, we try to make the existing competitive situation that has developed in democratic elections more favourable to some existing political parties. I do not like this approach very much, and that is why the search for consensus is in place. It also protects the smallest parties involved in the process. However, it seems to me that at least you and, in fact, the whole government union could have a common understanding with the Free Party that steps should be taken to facilitate the arrival of new forces. And we also remembered in the debate between us that, in view of the interaction, we need to consider whether it is right to increase subsidies for small people who are excluded from Parliament, or whether it is right to reduce bail. If we do both, we can reach very large extremes that do not contribute in any way to the development of democracy. These discussions were very detailed, and leaving such a point in agreement will certainly allow further discussion on these issues both in Parliament and in society at large.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U58	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U59	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! In the development of Ida-Viru County, the chemical industry and energy are indisputably key directions. But let's be honest, things aren't very bright in this area lately. My question to you is: what can the new government promise in the future for people whose daily work is specifically related to the chemical industry and electricity production?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U60	If you undertake a government union agreement, page 17 will begin and will continue to introduce about one-and-a-half pages of ideas on energy. I agree with you that not only for Ida-Virumaa, but one of the most important sectors for Estonia as a whole is the oil shale industry in the broadest sense, both the oil industry and electricity production. Of course, what is happening in this sector affects us all and, of course, affects us several ways, we know that too. And this sector has become, if you could say so, a separate chapter in the coalition agreement. If you don't mind, I wouldn't read all this out in detail, but here you can get an idea of the direction we're hoping to develop this sector. In short, however, it is important to develop connections so that electricity produced in Estonia would also have better access to the Latvian market. It is important to continue all these processes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U61	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Taavi in the garment! Unfortunately, the promises made to raise the salaries of teachers, cultural workers and internal security staff are rather vague. I hope, however, that the emerging government coalition will really give priority to the wage increases in these sectors, as you have promised. My question is: how and how will we proceed with the plan to clean up the school network?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U63	I looked it up in the text of the coalition agreement. We've used the word 'film' nine times in the text. That's impressive. There's a lot of things written down in very detail. Just because we did not have to negotiate the budget in a specific area, that is what I said before, does not mean that the Minister of Foreign Affairs cannot submit applications during the budget negotiations. Surely we can, and then we must, find the sources of cover and see what the country can do to narrow it down and give it more money. The question is not that anyone wanted to push this issue out, but I do not know that we have anyone against the movie, rather the opposite. We were simply thinking methodically of the fact that we are not trying to put together the budget for the next four years in the text of the agreement, otherwise we would have gone for another two months and I think that the suffering of the people would have stopped by now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U64	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good candidate for Prime Minister! Different countries have different attitudes to their own people who live outside their borders. I was very happy to find that there is a separate chapter in the coalition agreement, which talks about work with Estonians living outside Estonia. Its story is very brief, I quote one sentence: 'We are creating a tradition that on 24 February the Government of the Republic of Estonia will turn to Estonians living in other countries. ' I am very interested in what is being done on the remaining 364 days of the year, given that the number of Estonians living outside Estonia will certainly increase significantly if the current government policy continues.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U66	If I remember correctly, this proposal does not come from the programme of the party I manage, and I do not know why such a request was written. But it has been agreed, so we will. I have, by the way, done so before writing the text of this treaty, even just before the elections. I think that both the Prime Minister and, in fact, all the ministers who, during their foreign visits, visit countries where there is a considerable Estonian community should communicate with people on the ground. This is also an appeal to fellow countrymen and immediate bilateral communication. I am, how very briefly read out, in Latvia, Finland, Sweden, Germany, in a number of cities in the United States, Britain, London, I certainly forgot a few places, please apologize in advance, have met the local community, and these meetings have only been positive. I recommend this to all members of the government, as well as to the MPs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U67	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! Jürgen Ligi, the future Minister of Education and Science, has today told the journalist that the priority of this coalition agreement is not education. I quote: 'It is preferable to give cash to children rather than education, and education is not reflected in budgetary opportunities. ' Mr. Clothes, why is education not the priority of this coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U69	It seems to me that if this quote really is true, I have to look you in the eye, and you do not do me any hard feelings, that perhaps it is the case that the former Minister of Finance has taken on a new role very quickly and understood that in this role, the budget must be seen from within the field. At the same time, I believe that education and research will have a minister who, if necessary, will fight for his field as a lion and make sensible decisions there. The same applies, of course, to a great many other areas. I believe that each party has put forward candidates for the composition of the government in the belief that these are the best people to play a specific role. This has been the case with us. I am very sad that some subtext has also been sought in this step. I'm sure you don't want to look for it there. It's very wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U70	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! In answer to my previous question concerning the implementation of the Cohabitation Act, you still kind of messed up. This is in the sense that, once Parliament has passed one law, it is up to the government to come before Parliament with the necessary implementing legislation so that the law can also be implemented. It is no longer Parliament's task to deal with implementing acts. But that's it. There is a point in the coalition agreement: 'We are in charge of managing the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. ' Open, please, also to Parliament, what this point could mean. Does this really mean what the newspapers already write about and for which people representing the coalition have shared interviews on the radio that the plan is to divide Tallinn into eight separate cities? What does it really mean to modernise the Helsinki Metropolitan Area?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U72	This issue certainly requires a very comprehensive analysis, as well as a very fundamental engagement. One of the specific things we are seeking is that the rights of the districts are considerably higher, even more specifically, that there is a real functioning democracy in the districts. As long as the administrative bodies acted as "mini-governments" in a particular part of the city, this was very useful. True, it can be said that the topics discussed there were perhaps too few, but still. The current situation, where the opinion of the administrative councils has not been taken into account for some time, shows that this regulation, in which the administrative councils do not, in this sense, establish that their decisions are not mandatory for the district manager, needs to be updated. This is one example of many topics.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U73	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! In reply to Mr Eagle's question, you praised our health care. Thank you. Our doctors and sisters are very good, those who have stayed here, our patients are very patient, those who have survived. External experts commend our health care system, it's incredibly cost effective, which means it's incredible how it works with this kind of funding. You like the percentages as well as your leader and teacher, Andrus Ansip, he was very good at juggling them. We are going to health care with 6% of GDP, which is quite a polite number, but if we convert these percentages into euros, we have eight times less per capita money than in Finland and ten times less than in Sweden. Hence the exodus of doctors, queues and all other problems. What are you going to change about this? Or is it that the hill is divided into chubby percentages, but down in the valley you count lousy pennies?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U75	Thank you. A little while ago, there was at least one copy of the agreement (i am not sure whether all three copies) in the Reform Party Group. I don't think anyone would mind if you wanted to sign this. Of course, I would be very honored if you would vote in favour of empowering me. I'm saying this completely seriously. But when it comes to lowering labour taxes, then, yes, we wanted to do more. I believe that several Estonian entrepreneurs would also have wanted more to be done. But I think they agree that the trend is also important. The shift of the tax burden from labour and labour taxation to the taxation of harmful consumption is a clear choice. This has been done in the past and this trend continues. Step by step and persistently, though not with the steps we might want to take, but we are still moving in that direction so that it is better to create viable jobs in Estonia and entrepreneurs feel that it is good to do business in this economic environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U76	Thank you. We have known each other since we worked on the Tallinn Council ten years ago. I'm sure you'll remember I'd be happy to talk for a very long time. I suppose I would have found something to say more on the topics you referred to. When I spoke briefly on some issues, it certainly does not mean that this issue is irrelevant. In this way, I bet you wouldn't interpret! I was just trying to save you some time, not only personally, in my opinion, but in the opinion of the three parties, in the most precise terms. But, of course, that is why you have the opportunity to ask questions to bring them to specific areas and to talk about them, if that is what you want.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U77	Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Previously, at the end of its term of office, the XII Parliament adopted, with two votes in favour, the Cohabitation Act. In order for this law to apply, a number of implementing acts need to be adopted. Unfortunately, I do not see a word of this law or its implementing legislation in the agreement of the government union that is being created. I will take this opportunity to ask whether the coalition you run, the government you run, intends to make the partnership law work over the next four years.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U79	Thank you. I believe that you actually know both my personal position on this issue and that, during the previous government's term of office, it was not on the initiative of the government, but on the initiative of Parliament. Here I can only add the hope that there will be no new debate on this issue that divides Estonian society. I understand that this law has been passed. I think it makes perfect sense that once one law has been passed, this law will also be implemented, so the rule of law is appropriate. But yes, it was not the subject of the previous government union either; it has been a parliamentary initiative so far. People from different political parties voted both in favour and against this law. It has not exactly gone down the line between parties and the government and the opposition. This is probably a bit wider than the government versus the opposition.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U80	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Taavi in the garment! When I read the coalition agreement, I had the impression that working as a city council council in Tallinn probably didn't run all the way down the sidelines. There are a number of points in the coalition agreement that I would be willing to sign. But in reducing the tax burden on labour, I think you've miscalculated. Do you think, after a reduction of 1% in social tax, entrepreneurs will find that labour taxes have been reduced and jobs with high pay start to emerge in Estonia like mushrooms after rain?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U82	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! I represent the interests of local governments here. In February 2009, the share of income tax on municipal budgets was cut from 11,93% to 11,4%. When does the new government coalition plan to restore its 2008 level?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U84	Thank you. Well, once in a boom, there wasn't one way to approach things. But more important than the specific percentage in my eyes is what we can do to make sure that the pay of people living in a municipality is higher, no matter which municipality they live in, whether in the municipality where I live, in where you live, or in any one of us. Its influence is more important to me. Then it is also 11% and slightly higher than the amount received by the municipality. We have not specifically stated in the treaty that we want to change this percentage. However, we have discussed this in order, for example, to allocate more money to local roads. This has consistently been the wish of the local government heroes, and it also received a nice letter of agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U85	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! I am sorry, but I am a little disappointed in your response to Mr Sarapuu. Tallinn Television was not mentioned, it would have been traditional. But the question is that your coalition agreement imposes an obligation on the municipality to provide all children with a day-care position and, if there are no kindergarten or childcare places, you have to pay compensation. The revenue base will not be increased, but commitments will be made and funds will not be allocated. How can this obligation be fulfilled if the funds are not available? As you said, there is no intention to increase the revenue base. I also give you a hint that there is no television in Pärnu or Tartu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U87	Thank you. You called the evil one, you needed it now! I don't like this TV in Tallinn right now, and it's not necessarily because there's something wrong with it as a TV channel. Even the fact that there is politics under the name of the press can somehow survive. What bothers me is that this is done for the money of Tallinn taxpayers. Do it any other way, out of your own pocket, for example, you'd understand. It is particularly disturbing when there is money for television in this same municipality, but there is no money for kindergartens. But that's what it is. I wouldn't have opened this up, but thank you for getting it branded now. As regards solving the problem of kindergarten places, the country is actually planning to shoulder it with the support of euro money. Both the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior have real euro measures to deal with this issue. Both Helmen Kütt and Hanno Pevkur have carried these activities as ministers. I think it makes sense to complete these activities and then it is possible in Estonia to solve the problem that in order to get a kindergarten place in the first place in the first place in the first place in the first place.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U88	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! It is good that the coalition is thinking of using natural resources in the interests of the Estonian people and the state. My question is about research, and it concerns the research that is being started. Is this the right place to support our scientists through a national order specifically in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U90	I'm sorry, was it a matter of state order? Could you repeat the question, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U91	Please, the microphone again to the questioner!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U92	Is this the right place to support our science through a public order so that our own research institutions can have the right to carry out these studies?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U93	Let's just say that R &amp; D policy orders and grants are the kind of world that I would not like to give very detailed answers to as Prime Minister, which I think would be a slippery path. This issue has not been dealt with in the agreement and, therefore, as Prime Minister, I do not have the power to express fundamental views on behalf of the government union that is to be born. I don't have the authority. But I believe that, as soon as this government has taken office, you will be able to ask this question either by Question Time or by the Minister of Education and Research in office.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U94	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U95	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Taavi in the garment! As we know, the Health Insurance Fund's development plan for 2015-2018 provides that treatment queues should be reduced. In reality, they have become much longer from year to year. Do your new government extend or shorten treatment queues?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U96	Oh, if life were so simple that it could just answer that! I very much hope that the queues will shorten, and we also have ideas on how to achieve this, including by increasing competition in healthcare. I had an article in Postimees in February 2014 entitled 'Seven Steps to Faster Treatment' and from there you will find out exactly what my personal understanding is. We also discussed this issue quite thoroughly in government talks, and I can tell you that many of these steps will take even more use of e-services or the digital registration bar will help reduce the number of empty visits. This type of steps has also been well achieved in the programme and not only in the health chapter, but also in this chapter, for example, which speaks of IT at all. I very much hope that access to health care will improve, because according to all studies, the most important thing, or almost the only thing that is really bad in Estonian health care, is access to treatment. Estonian health care is at a very good level, there are very few countries, or I do not know if there is any, which we should be ashamed of when compared to. Whether it's top surgery at PERH or also at the University of Tartu Hospital, they're completely comparable to the top hospitals in Finland, even in America. So we can be proud of our hospital doctors and health professionals and hospitals at all. At the same time, it is true that the biggest problem in healthcare is precisely access to care and too long queues, especially in certain professions, including outpatient admissions. This is a subject that must certainly be dealt with. I think that whoever is the Minister of Health in Estonia will not be able to overlook this major problem. And I know that the Health Minister's candidate, Rannar Vassilyev, is definitely a person who is very capable of doing something.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U97	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U98	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! As we know, the former Foreign Minister signed a new Estonian-Russian border agreement that was unnecessary and harmful to Estonia. In today's geopolitical situation, it is clear that Russia does not respect international law or international agreements, and Estonia does not need to ratify this new border treaty. This would, by the way, also justify the occupation of Crimea. The Coalition Agreement does not address this issue, but we do consider it necessary to support Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova in maintaining their territorial integrity. That's commendable. But my question: will you also stand up for the territorial integrity of Estonia and withdraw the signature of the new Estonian-Russian border treaty, as Russia did in 2005?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U99	No, I'm not. Estonia needs very clear and unambiguous relations with all its neighbours. The fact that we have a border agreement is essential both to have unambiguous legal clarity and to be able to build a border where the border line runs. There is no justification for occupying Crimea here. In my view, there is no such justification at all and this connection is, in my opinion, very violent. I think that, like all the other countries of the European Union bordering Russia, we are better off having clear relations and the Treaty states that there are no territorial claims on either side.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U100	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U101	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Dear Mr. Clothe! How much changes in five weeks! Five weeks ago, the campaign, during which the Reform Party talked about tax cuts, ended. Today, you are standing before us and asking for the power to form a government to raise taxes, and this is not about taxes, but about taxes on consumption, or taxes on people on low and medium incomes. Mr Herkel has already asked once, and I'm afraid he may have to ask again, but I will ask as precisely as possible. Have any calculations been made and, if so, what are the amounts of the additional revenue that people receive from some tax movements and the additional cost of all the consumption taxes that we see in this coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U102	Just as I said in the introduction to my speech, what has been started by previous governments is not necessarily a reason to turn a blind eye, especially when processes are something that is, in a sense, inevitable. It is clear that such a process is creating waves in society, but it has to be admitted that it has been quite inevitable. In my opinion, the ministers so far have certainly not gone in the wrong direction. I see no alternative but to continue this process, including, of course, continuing to build state secondary schools. In fact, there are budgetary resources and European Union support for this. I have been to the state gymnasium established in your home town and the large number of electives, and the entire school organisation made a very positive impression. I am not, of course, a great expert in this field, but I am not a worthy conversational partner to you. As far as wage policy is concerned, we have decided that we will not have four years' budget negotiations ahead of us. That would be a little self-deception. We cannot say in advance how much wages increase each year if we do not know what the economy is doing in four years. But we are dealing with those sectors where wage increases should be faster than in the public sector as a whole, and that is why they are listed separately on page 7.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U103	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, You say that Estonia is an open and favourable place for business. At the same time, Estonia's labour taxes are the largest in Europe. A 1% reduction in social tax compared to a 10% increase in indirect taxes is certainly not a business-friendly measure. What are the concrete steps you plan to take to encourage entrepreneurship, especially production in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U105	I'm pleasantly surprised. I honestly say that if the Centre Party as a whole said that labour taxes are too high in Estonia, I could not confirm that I would choose the Centre Party on that day. There are other factors, of course, but let's just say it's a completely different Centre Party. But that's it. It is certainly not true that Estonia has the highest labour taxes in Europe. We can look at it exactly, but it is true that as a proportion of the tax burden in Estonia, the share of labour taxes is rather large. At the same time, we have the overall tax burden again among the smallest, we are 7 or 8, depending on the year. In Estonia, the share of labour taxes in the overall tax burden is indeed higher than our overall position would have been expected, but by far not the highest in Europe. With regard to supporting the reduction in labour taxes that you can read between your lines, I repeat that this is, in my view, very positive. I hope that you will also find an opportunity to support drafts that will reduce the burden on labour taxes. But we admit that if the current economic situation is realisticly assessed in the short term and also when looking at the sources of cover, it must be acknowledged that it is not possible for Estonia to move forward with major steps. In the future, I hope, it will be possible to continue to reduce labour taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U106	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good candidate for Prime Minister! I think that the inclusion of the Free Party had one major stumbling block from the point of view of revenue sources to reduce the funding of political parties, which has completely fallen out of the agreement. At the same time, there is a very high expectation in society that this step will finally be taken. Nor do I agree with the agreement on this point which would reconcile the country with the local authorities on the side of the ambassadors. In my opinion, this narrows the circle of participants and does not create confidence in the development of the current administrative arrangements. The next point, which raises questions, is whether the reform of the state will still be carried out within four years. The establishment of the Minister of State Reform will disperse responsibility. Who is ultimately responsible, then, for the Prime Minister or for the new minister in this area? Is...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U108	Thanks, time's up!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U109	Can the candidate Prime Minister confirm today that the reform of the state will take place within four years and that it will also reduce the funding of political parties from the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U110	We'll have to ask questions in one minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U111	First of all, a historic setback for a few weeks ago. Rather, in my view, there was an insurmountable contradiction in the way labour taxes were discussed, so that either labour taxes could be raised. That's what we said, it's a red line for us. Everything on the issue of party funding was, in my opinion, a completely open discussion for all partners. The fact that we did not have exactly the same views from the outset was commonplace for all parties, but no party said that this topic was a red line from which it would not be possible to speak further. Rather, it was the proposal to increase taxes on labour that drew the views of our political parties away from each other. It is true that we have agreed that the Prime Minister also has political responsibility for implementing administrative reform. More broadly, of course, the whole responsibility for implementing this agreement rests with me, of course, only if Parliament gives me the power to do so. And I'm not afraid of that responsibility. We understand that this reform is necessary, we have agreed on the starting points for this reform, but I do not naively think that it is simply doable. You have to make an effort. And the fact that the attention of the Minister for Public Administration will also be paid to the implementation of the administrative-territorial reform is, in my opinion, rather positive. This is what is really needed; this reform is not carried out by itself; it is still an evil thing to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U112	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Good candidate for Prime Minister! Estonian film production has created a great new image for Estonia, but the budget of the Estonian Film Institute, as the main donor of the Estonian film, has not grown as I remember in the past six years. Now, in the election programme of the Reform Party, the point was that the state budget funding of the Estonian Film Institute will double over the next four years, i.e. double, but the point in the coalition agreement has become that we support Estonian film art more effectively. Good candidate for Prime Minister, was it the Social Democrats or the IRL behind this round wording? And will the funding of the Estonian Film Institute increase during your reign or will it not increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U114	Thank you. I think you know very well that the whole circa billion euros in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, apart from a number of specific things that are not covered by health insurance, but go there in addition to the state budget, actually reach health care. It is true that the percentage of money invested in Estonia is smaller than in some other countries, but it is also correct to see why it is smaller. He is smaller mainly because Estonia has had a smaller holding. There is, in fact, one place in Estonia where the holding is again too large, and for this we are also in agreement with the company, it is dental care. In Estonia, there has been a participation, yes, for traditional reasons, out of the balance sheet. In general, ownership is very low, in some places it is not at all unlike in all other countries. With Latvia, there is a difference in tens of times in some specific places. In some places, such as dental care, participation has so far been 100% for both working age and retirement age. Here we are taking very clear steps to reduce this own contribution again. The short answer is that everything that has been collected from 13% of social tax has still reached treatment, all medical care and wider healthcare.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U115	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Thank you, Prime Minister-designate Taavi Kõivas! We can go to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the mandate of Prime Minister-designate Taavi Rõivas to form a government. Please take a stand and vote. 58 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 40 against and no abstentions. Prime Minister-designate Taavi Rõivas was authorised to form a government. [[Let's hear it.]] That concludes today's trial. Closure of the sitting at 4:38 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U116	My question is, if we know that the situation has not improved in the merged municipalities, on which your belief is based, that forced integration will improve the capacity of the municipalities if you do not give more money.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U117	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Clothes! I'm going back to the fuel excise we've already dealt with. I have read forecasts that the current government plans the price of a litre of fuel to rise by only over EUR 1.5 by 2019, which is higher than in Finland today. Similarly, the question is how much it affects families, people living in rural areas, compared to people living in large cities, such as Tallinn, who work very much with public transport, which is even free of charge for residents. The question to you is this: do you honestly believe that a family living somewhere in Järvamaa, Viljandi County or elsewhere in South Estonia, where the monthly income is about 700-800 euros per family, this sharp increase in excise duty affects as little as the family living in Tallinn, where the monthly income per person is more than 1000 euros?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U119	Thank you. First of all, I would like to stress that not only in planning the payment of excise duties on fuel, you are reeling here at current prices in Finland and at possible future prices in Estonia, it would also be right to look at the policy planned by the Finnish state and then compare, but also, for example, in the case of excise duties on alcohol and tobacco, the level of excise duty on our neighbours must, of course, be monitored. It is very important to monitor border trade and the wider environment. As far as the livelihood of the persons referred to by you is concerned, believe me, all the steps that reduce the tax burden on labour or increase family benefits, be it income support or child benefits, will have a much greater impact on the wallet of those most in need than on this particular increase in excise duties on fuel, as well as on alcohol or tobacco. In the case of fuel, I agree that consumption cannot be entirely self-selected, some moves or journeys are essential, although to some extent everyone can also choose fuel consumption. But in the case of alcohol and tobacco, my estimate is that there is no need, no minimum amount that anyone must consume in any case. That is why the only limit on the taxation of alcohol and tobacco, their increased taxation, which keeps us the most busy, is that border trade is getting a little carried away.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U120	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U121	Mr. Clothes! My question is about a point in the coalition agreement, which talks about improving the procedure for electing the President of the Republic. Can this be understood or translated into a more understandable Estonian language in such a way that the government coalition has decided to take the initiative to change the respective place in the Constitution? If so, would it be 'urgently' that this new, improved regime could already be in place in the next presidential elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U122	Thank you. I must admit that, in such detail, whether the new regime must definitely enter into force by the time the next presidential elections are held, which will be a little more than a year from now, we have not decided on the matter. The text of the agreement is also that we propose that the procedure be supplemented in order to give the public and candidates more time to participate in the democratic debate between the ballots. We cannot only make this amendment with the government coalition, because the coalition does not have enough votes to change the constitution. The purely vital background of the proposal, which is the result of practice, is that the time for the submission of the candidate has been disproportionately short between the various ballots. This has led to the fact that the other candidates do not have the opportunity to get set up and then hold a debate. That's the background. But let me be honest: the assurance that the new regime will enter into force for the next presidential election, I do not have the courage to give at the moment. This must be discussed in Parliament, and the decision must in any case receive a broader consensus than that of the government coalition alone.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U123	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U124	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The rather extensive part of the new coalition agreement concerns security and security is undoubtedly an important issue in our geopolitical situation. My question relates to our country's energy security. We know that the lion's share of our electricity comes from Narva Power Plants and that the cooling water from Narva Power Plants comes from the Narva reservoir. My question is this: is the new government going to forcefully take steps to conclude an agreement with the Russian Federation on the regulation of the use of water in the Narva reservoir, or is that not planned? I didn't find anything about it in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U125	Now, a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U126	I think it's gonna work. And here's the question: when will you plan to shut down border guards and border guards completely?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U127	Thank you. Well, how do I answer that question? We have written a great many steps to strengthen Estonia's border guard, how to actually build the eastern border, which, unfortunately, has not been done at the level we would like for decades. And now if you ask me when we want to shut down the border guard, I will, of course, find myself in some kind of perplexity. But I'm trying to gather myself. I do not believe that the people currently working on border guards, or those who manage border guards, would be any worse or dumber than those who have done so in the past. They are doing their job with a heart, and it is my job as Prime Minister and the task of the future Home Affairs Minister to give them the opportunity to create a legal environment for this, to build a border line, to provide the necessary resources in the budget, to strengthen their equipment, to strengthen their armaments, to build proper cordons. What is being built on Piusa is changing not only the working conditions but also the ways to work. The Narva border crossing, when it's finished, is quite different than it was years ago. So I wouldn't go into that past nostalgia, that in the old days everything was always better. I am saying that the people who are currently working at the border guard, who are driving the border guard, are also doing their job with their hearts, they are good and smart people.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U128	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! In the agreement of the Government Union, many Westerners have graciously mentioned the rice family's railways, yet once again in very cautious wording: we are analysing the possibilities. Various studies and analyses have already been carried out on this subject on the initiative of the Western County Government and entrepreneurs; it is rather a matter of political will. Mr. Rõivas, during your reign, will there be an extermination in Läänemaa and the restoration of the rice family's railway in Haapsalu?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U130	Thank you. I think it would be premature to say that with 100% certainty. We know that it needs not only significant investment, but also a firm conviction that keeping this route running is feasible for the state and that it is certainly more advantageous and reasonable than putting modern buses on this route, which I know has been discussed as one option. I know how important this subject is for the people of Läänemaa, especially the people of Haapsalu. It is therefore very important that this issue is addressed in the coalition agreement, but it is clear that there is no point in mocking promises where there is no 100% certainty that it is sustainable. This point, in your opinion, has been formulated perhaps in a bit too general a key, not in such a specific way of speaking and with deadlines as you would like, but in fact it means that the issue goes on the agenda of the government union, where there is a deadline and behind the person responsible. Then, as a Member of Parliament, you will be able to ask at the right moment where this has come from and what can be done with it. Now that you are in Parliament too, this is a situation in which we have a shared responsibility, we need to look at where to tighten up the money and where to invest. We must play this role together now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U131	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! I was not very satisfied with your answer to my previous question about the situation where, in 2009/2014, municipalities lost virtually EUR 388 million by reducing their income tax share and reducing the compensatory fund. As a solution, you offered nicely that entrepreneurship could develop, wages could rise, and then there would be a higher income base. I would like to pay attention to what Mr Savisaar asked earlier: what measures will the start-up government coalition take to ensure that entrepreneurship develops, wages rise, and the income base grows?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U133	Thank you. Clearly, in 2009 not only Estonia was hit, but a very large part of the world was hit by the financial crisis. As a result, not only the budgets of local governments in Estonia were affected, but also, of course, the state budget and the income of many people. That was a painful time. I think it is positive that Estonia, unlike many other countries, has emerged from this crisis. Our current situation is much better than before the crisis or at any time during the crisis. If you are interested in the concrete steps that we have taken or are planning to take to develop the business environment, this has been discussed at the beginning of the real agreement and, for example, under a halt to peripheralisation. I really recommend that the whole agreement be read throughout, because it has not been drawn up in this way in a classic way by chapter of the topic, but it has also solved a number of issues of interest to you under the priorities or challenges. Entrepreneurship has been discussed very thoroughly since page 12, so it has been dealt with on several pages. I strongly recommend reading, and perhaps there will be an opportunity to go further in the Question Time format.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U134	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! Here's the question. Under the Coalition Agreement, social tax will be reduced by 1%. I would like to know which area of financing will then be reduced, whether pension financing, which already has a deficit of over EUR 400 million, or medicine.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U136	Thank you. The short answer is neither. This will be compensated by other sources of revenue and in previous responses I have already said which ones.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U137	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U138	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, It is true that in the economic crisis, both the local government and the state's income base suffered in the same way. The state's revenue base has recovered, but the local government's income base has not been restored. On the other hand, there has been an increase in the number of tasks that take extra money, and the value of the money has changed considerably since 2009. We know that the Supreme Court has intervened in this matter and has decided that the state must provide the local governments with an adequate income base for the performance of their duties. And just because there is no such revenue base is now the main problem for our municipalities. You said that...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U139	Thank you. If it had been decided by now, there would be no need to analyse anything else, then I would say no right now, I would write down here and the subject would be down. Unfortunately, it's a little more complicated. No, we don't want to take money from other objects. This would also be a theoretical solution, but then we would have very many objects not done across Estonia, and we do not want that. So we have agreed that, since this road is a national priority, we would like to continue to work on its construction and also to take a slightly more open look at what are, in addition to the usual road-saving plan maintained by the Road Administration and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, additional opportunities for financing very large sites.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U140	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U141	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good candidate for Prime Minister, Taavi Kõivas! If you look at all the points in the coalition agreement, I believe that there are quite a number of people in this Chamber who have browsed through it or perhaps read it, the words 'weighing', 'look', 'thinking', 'negotiating' are almost at every point. Will the government that has been inclined to the right for 15 years now begin to analyse what is happening in the Republic of Estonia for the first time, or did something extraordinary happen in these negotiations, that you do not have a firm position on any of the points? Are you gonna do it or not? Or is it your smart plan to tell coalition partners that we are not really doing, because the result of the weighing could be negative?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U142	Thank you. Surely this government alliance is one of the largest of all time. In addition to these things, where we say very clearly that we are going to do this by this date, there are, by the way, very many of them, we have a number of issues that we want to deal with further, and we have written it here. We did not create this illusion from the outset that the detailed solution to all the challenges facing Estonia, even the smallest ones, can be put together in negotiations in 38 days, for example, and all members of the government and ministries can then simply follow the finger and do not have to bother themselves at all. We never made that assumption. However, we wanted to write down the topics that we will continue to deal with, which we did not get to the full details within 38 days. I would like to emphasise once again that the wording 'we consider' or 'analyse' also leads to the issue going into the government union's work programme. This plan is a government-supported document, which also includes deadlines, concrete responsibilities and concrete steps taken to achieve the stated objective. So it can be monitored in the future. But it is also true that all the things we are considering may not eventually come into force 100% exactly after consideration or analysis. This, of course, must be taken into account, otherwise there would be no point in considering and analysing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U143	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U144	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! There is a very important point in the coalition agreement regarding Estonia's rapid connections, and Rail Baltic is, of course, one of the important projects with which we have started. I remember how we met at the Stenbock house last autumn and discussed bottlenecks that prevent this project from moving forward faster. How do you feel about us in the current situation, next month, moving forward faster and getting closer to the main objective?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U145	Thank you. I mean, it's next month, but it's definitely during this period of government. Clearly, there are things in the construction of such a large object that depend on us, that is, Estonia. For example, where exactly the route comes from. We have had many debates and debates about this, and this matter has not yet been discussed in all counties. I believe that we can certainly continue this debate in the near future. But there are also things that depend on other countries. So far, as Prime Minister, I have done everything in my power to ensure that the Prime Ministers of Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, as well as the Commissioners of the European Commission, whose administration it belongs, take this issue as seriously as we do here in Estonia. I'm ready to go on like this if I have to. Every time a minister in the field says that apart from their own work, the Prime Minister needs the support of this particular big thing, say, push it forward or get going, I am, of course, ready to do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U146	Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U147	Mr. President-in-Office and Prime Minister-in-Office! You have given very enthusiastic and confident answers to quite complex questions today for a long time. What is the source of such good mood and self-confidence?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U148	Thank you very much for today's hardest question. But the answer is actually simpler than it seems at first: maybe I finally have the hope that this weekend I will see my six-year-old daughter as well. We'll see.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U149	Honourable Chairman! Dear Mr. Clothe! I will, however, take this opportunity to broaden your horizons in respect of a certain profession, because the minister who will be involved in this area is as much a specialist as you are. So you're gonna need it. The border guard's control chain, running down from the top, has been broken. In the meantime, police officers have been shoved and do not know anything about border guards or border guards. The Agency continues to bring together officers with higher education in the field of border guards, while for the fifth year, no person has received higher education in the field of border guard training at the Academy of Internal Defence. It was closed five years ago. Thank God, of course, your party failed to lose military service. But the abolition of border surveillance and border surveillance...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U150	Thank you. Yes, in the coalition agreement we did not really address this issue that way. I cannot say that most of the energy we consume comes from Narva at this point in time. If you open the website Elering.ee, you will see the production and consumption of electricity in real time. True, they are now almost balanced from a dash to the point of view of Estonia producing 1059.9 megawatts of electricity and consuming 1073.4 megawatts, including more than a quarter of wind energy. But both EstLink 1 and EstLink 2 are operating close to full capacity, and the connections to Latvia are working at a pretty high capacity. In the open market, it is very difficult to say whether the specific energy unit that lights this lamp is coming from oil shale electricity or windmill or from EstLink 1 or EstLink 2. Of course, a number of things are needed to achieve energy security. We have not formulated this particular issue as a separate point, but it does say that the connections as a whole, including the third electric line to Latvia, will be completed. And then, when we have proper connections, our energy security does not depend so much on the electricity produced in Estonia alone. This, too, is important for a variety of crises.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U151	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U152	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Clothes! The coalition agreement rightly states a lot about how to reduce the administrative burden on both companies and the public sector, which is excellent in itself. However, there are just a few examples of how this administrative burden would be reduced, for example, in small businesses or in the private sector at all. But my question is this: how is this consistent with the fact that there are more ministers in the new government than in the previous one? In fact, we have ministers at all now more than ever, and in the past we have managed 12 ministers.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U153	Thank you. First of all, you are right that a great deal has been dealt with about how the administrative burden on businesses is planned to be reduced. This is discussed in tax issues, the chapter on state reform and the chapter on e-services. The fact that businesses should not only have a lower tax burden but also a lower administrative burden is a general trend and must be observed. As far as the number of ministers is concerned, you may even admit that this is more correlated with the political priorities of the government and the level of addressing these issues. As in the previous case, there was no significant additional cost involved in redistributing ministerial responsibilities. Rather, the general trend is to keep public expenditure as a whole within reasonable limits and to increase the efficiency of this sector. One of the key roles of the Minister of Public Administration is to deal with this. The whole side of support services, so that we can do more with fewer people, is his direct responsibility. I think that if we put one person in charge, extra to deal with it, the sum of the sum will certainly help to reduce the real administrative burden and achieve savings.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U154	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U155	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Clothes! I will read this point in the agreement, such as 16.2: we will ensure that the Estonian language courses necessary to prepare the citizenship status are free of charge. On this point, I have a number of questions. In what year can this free service be expected, how much money will be available in the budget and what will be the Minister's responsibility to deliver on this promise?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U156	Thank you. I ask for a little more patience, because as soon as the government can take office, there will be a working plan for the government union. There is each specific chapter, each specific promise or step written out in such a way that by what time must be done and who is responsible for it. It also sets out what is being done, whether money is being allocated or a legislative amendment is being made, how it will be done, in particular, in the past. By the way, I have this point, which, although not written in agreement on my own initiative, would be unfair, including a personal connection. I remember 12 years ago when I worked as head of the office of the Minister of Population, we dealt with the fact that these courses would be free of charge for those who took the citizenship exam. Much time has gone by today, and many of the people who participated in the negotiations said that this money is not enough now, cannot be made in full free. In summary, this system needs to be developed further. I believe it will be done. If people living in Estonia can speak Estonian better, I think that the trend is very positive. And if, through it, they become Estonian citizens too, I think this is the right direction to move to.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U157	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Good candidate for Prime Minister! I would like to express my very great appreciation to the negotiators and to welcome the fact that the coalition agreement contains a very thorough and meaningful chapter in the cultural field. We all remember that the issue of hobby money has also been the subject of two previous coalition agreements. The Estonian proverb says that three are the law of the court, so two will not be left without the third. It is therefore particularly nice that in the first chapter, 'Improving the livelihood of families with children', we are talking about ensuring that each young person has the opportunity to participate in sporting activities, activities of interest, which once again brings this 'round money' to a nice tray. I would just like to hear here that the candidate for Prime Minister is also very close to the heart personally and that all government ministers will vote in favour of this decision when it comes to the subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U159	Of course it's important. The original idea of this point, as far as I know in the details, was to help more children participate in the circles. This is not only an economic necessity, but it is also that in some regions the implementation of such a measure will contribute to the creation of an offer. As a result, the possibility to participate in groups of interests may become more even geographically. It's not just a word. We have provided funds since 1 September 2017 and the first full year of the full year is then 2018 It is accurate to say that not in the budget, but in the Excel table covered by the sources of cover, which has already been asked about here before.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U160	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U161	Thank you. Now, if you start taking the row from the row, the answer's going to be long. But this statement that the municipal income base would never have been bigger than it was in 2015 is not true, I suppose you know that as a former local government leader. Coming to see whether the main problem is that money is scarce, or that it is somewhere else, I think that if we only gave more money to the current arrangement, it would still not make all the municipalities perform all the functions they should perform. There are large municipalities that would be very helpful. There are small municipalities that also have extra money to support, but who still have to cooperate with their neighbours in order to perform all their functions, in a way or in another way. Before we start talking about forced mergers of municipalities, as you called it, we also have an agreed deadline for them to be able to bring their cooperation to the next level, which is the time for the 2017 local elections. By then, I dare to hope, many municipalities have done so on their own initiative, especially if they know that accession support, which will help them solve structural problems, will double.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U162	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U163	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister-designate Taavi Kõivas! I would very much like to acknowledge that there are many points in the coalition agreement that concern carers and people with special needs, and also that the Socialists' proposal to increase the support of parents of children with serious disabilities went in there. Now I hope that this will happen, and in this Chamber everyone will vote for it. I have had this experience that, as a representative of the opposition, I tabled a draft that the government did not support, but the hall voted in favour of it, and this is the case with the cancellation of the student loan from 2014. I hope you also have the faith that the topic of perceptive care can be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U164	Thank you. I also thank you, Helmen, for your contribution to this agreement! You are right that the proposal for this particular point came from the Socialists, but it is now a common thing for all of us, which we all support together. It also has a real financial cover. And, of course, I would like to thank you not only for your contribution to this agreement, but for the whole year we worked together. I would also like to warmly thank the other ministers of the outgoing government, because this year or a little after what we have had was certainly very effective. I think it is not denied by those who participated in this government, nor by those who were on the other side of the thoughtline.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U165	Honourable Prime Minister-designate! I'm sorry for a moment, because the MP Laine Randjärv has a procedural question! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U166	Thank you. There have been many times today such precedents that the question has lasted a minute and a half, if not even longer. In the meantime, have we changed the Home and Working Procedures Act, which says that the time to ask a question is up to one minute?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U167	You see, good ambassadors, when I look at you with an understanding, because you're still asking questions for the first time, I get to fight, and rightly so. So I ask you to follow the paragraph of the Rules of Procedure Act, which allows you one minute to ask a question. The answer to the procedural question is this: the Rules of Procedure Act has not been amended in the meantime. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U168	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! I'll try to hold on to that time. My second question. In recent years, of course, one of the biggest issues has been the reform of working capacity. Its target group has been most concerned about the availability of the support services needed to work, i.e. a support person or a personal assistant, disability, etc. According to the law, these services should be provided by local authorities. Unfortunately, not all municipalities are able to offer the services needed to work and study in the same quality and optimal volume. Everyone has paid attention to this bottleneck, and it has been certain, but unfortunately nothing has happened so far. Now you promise to develop a framework for the quality of social services. Do you believe that it will enter into force from 1 January 2016 if the work capacity reform should also start?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U169	Thank you. Yeah, I hope it can be done as soon as possible. I agree with you one hundred percent that the emphasis you have mentioned is on the issues, that this reform is actually needed to solve them. If we were to do very well with the employment of people with special needs, we would not have to reform any capacity for work, then we could continue as we are now, see if there is a need to allocate some money, and life would be much easier. But we know that the current situation is not satisfying people. The laws have been passed, and I believe that here the political parties in Parliament, both the coalition and the opposition, have a common desire for this reform to actually enter into force so that people with special needs can really get a job. That it is not just a word or a political slogan, but that it actually enters into force because it has an impact on both the economy and the cohesion of society. So I really believe in the implementation of this reform, and all the detailed issues that are still poor at this stage must be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U170	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U171	Thank you! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! In accordance with point 8.47 of the Coalition Agreement, you aim to build the Tallinn highway in four lines until Mäon by 2020. To this end, you will analyse the possibilities of mobilising additional financial resources. What are these additional financial resources, are they being reduced or are some kind of additional tax imposed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-08_U172	Now, a question! It's been a long time.
