ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-30_U1	Good morning, good fellows. Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the fourth Thursday session of the first plenary session. I would first like to ask for a chair of speech for those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or enquiries. Please, Kersti Sarapuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-30_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of a member of the 24 Central Party Group, I will report an inquiry to Urve Palo, Minister for Enterprise. The subject is the increase in VAT on accommodation services. First of all, the new government coalition has come up with the idea of raising the VAT rate on accommodation services from 9% to the standard rate, which is 20% in Estonia. This step is expected to generate additional revenue that is felt in the state budget. The tourism sector is an important part of the Estonian economy, with indirect effects, it accounts for nearly 7% of Estonia's gross domestic product. About 6 million foreign tourists visit Estonia annually, who spent 1.35 billion euros on tourism services in 2013. The tourism sector accounted for 29% of services exports in 2012 and tourism accounted for around 10% of total exports. The Association of Estonian Hotels and Restaurants takes the view that the planned increase in the VAT rate for accommodation services will lead to a reduction in the country's tourism revenues, job losses and the deepening of the black economy instead of the expected increase in tax revenues. A study by the Institute of Economics clearly points out that if the VAT rate for accommodation services was 20%, prices would rise by 7% and the number of visitors would decrease by 6%, i.e. by almost 180000 people. Estonia has a warning example to take from Latvia, where the VAT rate for accommodation services was increased in 2008. As a result, the number of foreign tourists in Latvia decreased rapidly as the price of hotel services increased. There was also an increase in the provision of illegal services and businesses started to refrain from taxing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-30_U3	Good waitress, your time is up!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-30_U4	I'll ask you some questions...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-30_U5	Good waitress, your time is up!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-30_U6	Anyway, I'll hand it over for processing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-30_U7	Thank you. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Siret Kotka, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-30_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Centre Party Group, I would like to address the question to the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus. This concerns the situation of Estonian dairy producers. Today, our milk producers are in a situation where they are still affected, on the one hand, by the sanctions caused by the Ukrainian crisis and, on the other, by the European Union, by abolishing milk quotas for milk producers from 1 April. According to Statistics Estonia, for example, in February the buying-in price of milk was 40.3% lower than at the same time a year ago. The disappearance of quotas means that the pressure to reduce milk prices will increase further. Estonia has had the opportunity not only to help the European Union but also to support its own producers. Unfortunately, we haven't done that so far. Latvia and Lithuania, on the other hand, have supported their milk producers with several million euros. In addition, Estonian producers are likely to have to pay a surplus levy for the last quota year, which may amount to EUR 3.8 million. Dairy farmers and other farmers are forced to tighten up their activities and lay off their workers. Dozens of milk producers have already ceased their activities due to difficulties. According to the Association of Breeders, 28 cow herd owners are about to complete milk production. It is 3,500 cows, which account for 4% of the entire dairy herd. In relation to all this, we are asking the Minister four questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-30_U9	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Dmitri Dmitriyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-30_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The faction of the Estonian Centre Party initiates the amendment of the State Legal Aid Act. The draft act is motivated by the concerns of the people living in Estonia and the Chancellor of Justice's view that the conditions for requesting the language of the application for state legal aid prevent some people from going to court. Last time in this Chamber there was a debate on state legal aid in 2012 under the leadership of our former colleague, Yana Toom. What are the main changes proposed? The first objective of the draft is to ensure that all groups of people living here who need protection have access to justice to protect their rights. According to Statistics Estonia, approximately 30% of the Estonian population speak Russian as their native language. The draft therefore proposes that the residents of the country be allowed to apply for legal aid in Russian in addition to the Estonian language. Secondly, we would like to amend the procedure for submitting an application for legal aid in such a way that if the application is filed in a language other than Estonian or English, it cannot be automatically rejected. The law in force is not in accordance with the Estonian Constitution or the law of the European Union. This has also been referred to by the Chancellor of Justice, who considered that the rejection of an application for failure to comply solely with the language requirement could be contrary to the principles of the Convention on Human Rights and to the current case law of the European Court of Human Rights. Why are changes needed? The amendments are necessary, in particular, for the country to be able to fulfil its obligations under both the International Convention on Human Rights and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and to provide protection for all groups of the population in need of assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-30_U11	Good colleagues, there seems to be no more calls. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two inquiries and one draft, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. Today, after the end of the session, a meeting of the Estonian Farmers' Support Group will take place in this Chamber, convened by Siret Kotka. We're looking forward to active participation! Good fellows, please, let's do the presence check. 86 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 15. Dear colleagues, thank you for your cooperation in today's session. The sitting is adjourned. Good luck in our work! Closure of the sitting at 10.07 a.m.
