ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U1	Good afternoon. The final Question Time for this composition begins. Please, let's do the presence check! 38 members of the Riigikogu are present, 63 are absent. The members of the government who are ready to answer your questions are Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Economy and Infrastructure Urve Palo and Minister of Finance Maris Lauri. On the basis of the number of questioners, I will allow two additional questions to be submitted in the debate on each subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U2	The first question is to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas and is presented by Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U3	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! At present, in times of security challenges, it is very important that the government's security policy line is unified. In recent weeks, politicians in the government union have expressed different views on this. I want to get some details from you. Jürgen Ligi pointed out on Saturday in the Estonian Päevaleht that, according to his solid data, the Social Democrats did not support the policy of tightening sanctions at the extraordinary session of the government, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs has regretted it. Please tell me, Prime Minister, whether this statement by Jürgen Ligi on what happened at the extraordinary government meeting is relevant or whether Jürgen Ligi interpreted matters politically in the passion of the current elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U4	Thank you. I am pleased to announce that there are no differences between coalition partners on these issues. There was also a consensus at the meeting of the office referred to here, where we shaped Estonia's views for the extraordinary meeting of foreign ministers. These views were presented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in this form. It is very important that we interpret the events that occurred just before this cabinet meeting in Europe as an additional escalation. I was able to hear directly from President Poroschenko what really meant by the attack by Russian-supported separatists on civilians. This meant not only the numbers of the dead and the wounded, but a great tragedy. Unfortunately, it has to be said that the situation has not improved significantly. Although almost three weeks have passed and efforts have been made in the meantime to enforce the new peace treaty, unfortunately, I am very sad and anxious about the reports coming from Ukraine, including information that weapons with a quite large caliber are still being fired near both Debaltseve and Mariupoli. This is indeed a matter of concern and must be interpreted as an escalation. I am pleased that there are no differences in the government union on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U5	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U6	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! I think it makes sense if there is a government, whatever it is, on a common and unified line of affairs across the day. It is therefore a pity that you did not comment further on this statement by Jürgen Ligi when he presented a firm position to the public on the differences in government. But the Minister of Defence, Sven Mikser, has expressed regret in commenting on the same government meeting that this was a'reputable project'. He has expressed his reservations as to why it was necessary to convene this sitting in the first place. This is certainly a very important and central issue to which the government must commit itself, but I do not understand why in this case the Minister for Defence expressed the view that this session had been convened with the aim of producing day-to-day political and electoral ideas.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U7	Thank you. I have never commented on Facebook word wars between people before. It doesn't make sense to expect me to go along with it in the last Question Time of this House. This extraordinary government cabinet meeting was, in my opinion, very necessary and timely. The very pragmatic reason why this had to be done at this very moment was that Estonia had to confirm its positions for the Foreign Ministers meeting. This requires the consent of the government, which cannot only be done by the Minister for Foreign Affairs or by any minister who attends meetings of the Council of the European Union, which cannot be done alone, must also receive a mandate from Parliament, the Commission for European Union Affairs. Because of the extraordinary Foreign Affairs Council, an emergency cabinet meeting had to be held at this very moment. In addition, in my opinion, it was very important to give all the members of the Cabinet a detailed overview of what is happening in Ukraine. We all know this as a page reader and a television viewer, but some ministers who are directly involved in security issues, as you well know from your experience, are also very detailed about events the details of which we cannot read in the paper. This is the kind of brief we made for all members of the government, including those who do not come into contact with security issues every day. Very many members of the government came to tell me that this was very necessary. I believe that the good information of the members of the government is also valid if we make additional decisions to strengthen Estonia's defence capabilities. I thought it was a very important meeting in the office.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U8	Urmas Reinsalu, please, second additional question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U9	Thank you. I call on you, Prime Minister, that the members of the government and the leading politicians of the government union do not give rise to day-to-day political passion on issues such as security policy. Moreover, my suggestion is that both the government departments and the opposition parties, after the elections, enter into a national defence agreement to further strengthen Estonia's independent defence capabilities, as is currently being developed in the Republic of Finland. What is the government's position on this agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U10	Thank you. We have concluded an agreement within the government union which ensures that Estonia's defence capabilities are enhanced by the presence of its allies. We have agreed that in 2014 and 2015 and beyond we will contribute more than 2% of GDP to national defence. All that is necessary to ensure the presence of the allies will be added to this 2%, so that we do not miss any planned action in our national defence. This is, in my opinion, a very important agreement. Within this framework, we are planning to approve more than EUR 40 million of additional investments in tomorrow's government meeting, which will allow us to build a larger central polygon of the Defence Forces, so that it can be practiced not only with infantry combat vehicles but also with tanks. This is an absolute assumption that there will never be tanks in Estonia. Secondly, the construction of an additional barracks in Killa, so that at least two companies of Allied forces soldiers can be permanently present in Estonia. It also means building a headquarters next to the General Staff of the Defence Forces. This headquarters could be a NATO-flagged unit that plans to protect Estonia as a collective defence. These activities are still planned. I think it is very important that we have a consensus with the Social Democratic Party that we will all implement it. As regards the whole-out-of-security agreement, this is a beautiful objective. But it is very difficult for me to imagine that it would be possible to conclude this agreement with the Central Party that justified the annexation of Crimea.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U11	Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! In the future parliamentary term, at least three political parties, likely to be elected, will support progressive income tax. This gives hope that in one form or another, progressive income tax will apply in Estonia over the next four years. Your party and you, as Prime Minister for the last few weeks, didn't tell me about progressive income tax. Have you then chosen a bench of opposition for your party in advance, or are you willing to support progressive income tax on one condition or the other?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U13	Thank you. Yes, it is true that the Reform Party does not support progressive income tax. The Reform Party does not support an increase in the tax burden; we can see that progressive income tax is the safest way to deter well-paid jobs from Estonia. Today, too, we have seen quite a number of news about how foreign-owned companies create considerable jobs in Estonia. Today's news is, in my opinion, the most remarkable news about Twilio. It is a very serious technology company that creates 50 high-paid jobs in Estonia. When I went to San Francisco with Estonian entrepreneurs, I spoke to Twilio's leaders, including Estonians. The managers of both Twilio and several other companies have unambiguously said that if Estonia had significantly higher taxes on labour, these jobs would simply be created elsewhere. Then we can be sure that we will also miss out on additional tax revenues. If we miss out on additional tax revenue, for example, pensions cannot rise and we do not have enough money to cover public expenditure. So the progressive income tax unequivocally inhibits Estonia's future economic growth. Therefore, I cannot really support progressive income tax. There is still a very clear economic logic behind this. I believe that the people of Estonia understand that it is not justified to tax people's hard work higher.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U14	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U15	Thank you. Prime Minister! I'm coming back to this office meeting. In the social media, apart from a serious security policy debate, there was also a debate at the Cabinet meeting on how to take advantage of security policy in the electoral campaign. In particular, more emphasis should be placed on security policy and thus shift public attention away from those painful problems that have not been addressed by the Reform Party Government. I am thinking of raising the standard of living for the people, creating jobs and improving growth. Am I so wrong? Or should these messages be retrieved and shown to you if your press service hasn't brought them to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U16	Thank you. Yeah, you're very wrong, there's a short answer. But I'm also taking the opportunity to respond a little further. My life as Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia would be much easier if I did not have to deal with security issues from day to day. I'd sleep better, and I'd feel much better. When we created a government union, we agreed that our main topics were reducing labour taxes and raising child benefits, and we also have a number of very good ideas to promote Estonia's life. We would not have wanted to deal with such a seriously changed security situation. This is not a positive development in our opinion, and it is not good for the Estonian state either. We can see that our neighbor is at war with another neighbor. We see that people, not only soldiers, but also civilians, are killed almost every day. When I hear President Poroshenko talking about a wounded three-year-old boy who lost his hands in an attack on his house and survived only because his mother protected him with her body, I have no way of ignoring these matters. If you do realize that the war is really happening in Ukraine, then I think you also understand why Estonia must do everything in order to protect our country well. You should then also understand why statements such as the Allied military would be here only to solve the problems of the maladies, as I think one of your party associates has said very inappropriately, are completely unacceptable and why we must do everything to ensure that the Allied military are more here and that the Estonian people can feel confident.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U17	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U18	The next question is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Urve Palole. Lauri Laasi.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U19	Thank you. Madam Secretary! On Monday, we spoke to you in this hall about the large electricity bills of the Estonian people. I think your answers were a little scattered and confused. However, the limitation of Question Time requires a little more specific answers. I therefore ask again what are your next concrete steps to reduce the charges and taxes paid to the state on people's electricity bills.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U20	Thank you for your question. I'm glad you're worried about people's electric bills. I'm worried too, so we have a problem together. I hope that this will be a smoother way of resolving this concern in this House as well. First of all, people's electricity bills consist of three components: network charges, electricity prices and public taxes, i.e. VAT, excise duty and renewable energy charges. What have I done in less than a year to reduce people's electricity bills? First of all, last year's transmission network charges fell by 7% over the long term. Secondly, when we are talking about how we can reduce excise duties or renewable energy charges, for example, the Ministry of the Economy has developed concrete proposals on electricity market law and has also received a European Union state aid authorisation, which is a very big achievement. This was requested for over two years and I am pleased that I managed to bring it home last year. So there is a great deal in Parliament's hands right now. We have prepared for the amendment of the Electricity Market Act. If this change were adopted, the renewable energy charge would depend on the market price of electricity, and there would no longer be overcompensation. If the price is higher, the consumer will pay less. Secondly, we will only compensate for new sources in the future if we do not meet the standards set by the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U21	Lauri Laasi.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U22	Thank you. Glad to hear you have a plan. After all, the plan begins, although not with this coalition partner, who is more in favor of high than low home expenses, I imagine it will not be easy for you. But one thing still worries me. I read the Socialist Election Programme, but unfortunately I did not find any points there aimed at reducing people's home expenses. Why are you ignoring this in your program?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U23	Surely we are not ignoring this issue. Maybe you read the program, but this program is thorough. There is a completely separate point on energy, where there are a large number of measures that can reduce people's home costs in the future. For example, we believe that electricity production should take place across Estonia on a distributed basis. This means cogeneration of electricity and heat. Similarly, a gradual transition should be made to local wood chips instead of using imported fuel. Let me give you an example. When Tallinn Heating reconfigures gas boiler houses to chips, this means 20% smaller heat bills for people. So there are very specific options. When we are talking about energy savings, in the new period, I have allocated nearly twice as much European Union funds to the insulation of apartment buildings as it was in the previous period. This will cost EUR 102 million instead of the previous EUR 60 million. Estonia will certainly continue in this direction that we will synchronise our electricity grids with those of Western Europe. Currently, the third link to Latvia is under construction. The year before last EstLink 2 was completed. As a result, electricity prices will now be more favourable if it were on the captive market. The price on the closed market would now be about EUR 40, but we had an average electricity price of EUR 33 per megawatt-hour in January, for example. These are very concrete actions and are a plan to continue with them. Elering is investing heavily in creating capacity and also emergency capacity. Last year, Kiisa's power plant was completed. All of this is to ensure the security of electricity supply. We are talking not only about a favourable price for electricity but also about security of supply.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U24	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Let me remind you once again, who are you going to make your own questions, that this is a briefing of the Government of the Republic. Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U25	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I hope that the beautiful talk you have told us will be reflected in the consumer's electricity bills at some point, otherwise there is no point. IRL was in the government for seven years and their main election promise was 'Home expenses down! '. As a minister and otherwise a busy person, as it seems to me, would seven years be enough to actually reduce people's home expenses? With which political party in the next coalition would you think it would be most likely to reduce people's home expenses?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U26	Thank you. Indeed, the IRL election loosung 'Home expenses down! " became ridiculous and even farce, for it was only after its announcement that home expenses began to rise. I asked the then Minister of Economic Affairs, the Parts, right here in the Riigikogu Hall, as a Member of Parliament, what the IRL meant by reducing home expenses. Allegedly, the idea was that houses would be renovated and energy savings would occur. In itself, this is the very right approach. But I did a little math. I looked at KredEx's resources for the next few years to help people make houses energy-saving, and I calculated that it would have taken more than a hundred years for them to do so. I asked Secretary Parts what the point of their idea was, how they meant it, because I don't see the contents anywhere. Minister Parts admitted that it should also be in the verbatim, that yes, they thought that people themselves would heat their houses. Perhaps a slogan 'Home expenses down! " meant to ordinary people that they had a match with their own vodka. Of course, I don't think that's right. That is why I have increased support for renovation of apartment buildings almost twice. However, the development plan for the energy economy also envisages much greater public support for energy saving of apartment buildings and private houses.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U27	Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. As we know, the General Secretary of the OECD visited Estonia the week before last and made his recommendations. In order to develop more effectively, he recommended that Estonia take out loans and use this money to create jobs, develop infrastructure and contribute to productivity gains. The report said that Estonia is practically in deflation and demand is weak. In addition to structural labour shortages, emigration is an obstacle to economic development. Among other things, the state was advised to contribute more to energy saving and to help people make their homes energy efficient. What do you think of these suggestions?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U29	Thank you. I very much support this approach, because we must once start investing in our economies and in our people. That is precisely because the investment, as we know, means that this money will come back later. We don't have time to wait for things to sort themselves out. When it comes to insulation of houses, scientists at Tallinn University of Technology have calculated that if, for example, one third contributes to housing, whether it is renovation or construction, and two thirds comes from people or the private sector, then this one third comes back to the state as additional tax revenue. So the state must give momentum at first, and later we will see these funds as jobs that are already being added, as well as additional tax revenue in the budget. Therefore, one thing the state could borrow for and invest in is the renovation of residential buildings, at times also the construction of new ones. Perhaps the dismantling of old houses should also be considered, because our housing fund is very old, but it is in terms of quality of life that it is in which environment it lives and whether it can afford the desired environment. Therefore, apartment buildings built by the state, which are rented out, would also be one place for the state to invest. Of course, also infrastructure that we have out of date. We have been building the road to Tartu for years. It would certainly be very easy to make this Paiden four-line by 2020 if the country were prepared to put additional resources into it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U30	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U31	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. The cost of our people's homes is high, you might even say, high above reason. A recent analysis showed that our home costs are about 1.65 times higher than our home costs in Finland. Is it fair taxation when home expenses are subject to such high national taxes? Our great desire is to catch up with Finland from the standard of living. How many years will it take for our home expenses to reach Finland's home expenses?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U32	I think that the main concern in Estonia is that people's incomes are low. There is certainly a need to deal with the increase in income. The first thing is that the state must also take an active stance in wage negotiations. If it is very common in Finland that there are three counterparties in the minimum wage negotiations, the state, employers and employees, then in Estonia there have always been only employers and employees. It is high time for the country to go to the table and show what the country wants, how much the minimum wage should rise. Then the State should ask the entrepreneurs what they want in return, what they are missing, that they cannot raise the minimum wage. What is that? These negotiations should be such that it is agreed that the state will do something for its part and that businesses will do something for their part. We have no choice in Estonia; wages must rise; the minimum wage must rise. Imagine if in 2018 it would be possible to recruit a full-time person with a gross salary below EUR 800! This is what the Social Democrats are talking about. People who work should not live in poverty and go to the local government at the end of the month to ask for support. It is in the interests of all of us, so that people can live in Estonia with dignity and manage their wages. As far as housing is concerned, I would stress once again that state-built rental premises are certainly one of the tools to help many families stay in Estonia and not leave because they can live here with dignity and afford a modern living environment and a home. Some people might come back and get their lives started here to move on later.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U33	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U34	The next question is to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, which is presented by Kadri Simson. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U35	Thank you. Dear Taavi in the garment! The Minister of Finance, sitting at your right hand, said in the Riigikogu's Committee on Finance before the Greek elections that if the Greek elections bring a pro-Eurozone government to power, then the ministers of the eurozone are willing to consider granting Greece a continuation loan. The situation is different and Greece's problems are currently in a completely different context. The European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF) loan programme for Greece should end in s. February 28th. Greece has already received EUR 141.8 billion from the EFSF and a final payment remains. Of this amount, Estonia's guarantee amounts to 0.2784%, or nearly 400 million euros. What would be the compromise that the Reform Party-led government would support in the negotiations with Greece? How long would you allow Greece to carry out reforms?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U36	Thank you. I have also said publicly that there is no reason to believe that Estonia should go along with concessions that will end the programme's conditionality in one way or another or simply forgive the loan. This cannot be done. However, this is European taxpayers' money and must be treated with great responsibility. It is true, yes, that the party that has won the elections in Greece has declared that they will not continue with the steps approved by the previous government, even several previous governments, to reform the Greek state and to keep expenditure under control. That's very worrying. While fully respecting each country's democratic right to choose a parliament, to choose those who run the country, we certainly cannot accept that it is possible to vote free of external obligations in any way. This is not conceivable, it is an agreement between several parties, and agreements must undoubtedly be honoured. Unfortunately, the discussions on the situation in Greece have not reached much. This means, in fact, that if there are no clear solutions coming from another conference that has been convened, if I remember correctly, the day after tomorrow, then the Greek Government must still do as has been agreed. I don't really see any other options here. I believe that the Greek Government must also understand for itself that there are obligations to be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U37	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U38	Thank you. Dear Taavi in the garment! It is clear that Greece has not fulfilled its commitments. Greece's public debt was 175% of GDP in 2013 according to Eurostat and the general government deficit was 12.2% in 2013. At the same time, however, Greece has committed itself to bringing its budget into the 4.5% primary surplus by 2014. Wouldn't it be time for the Reform Party to admit that our Greek investment has failed and it is only a matter of time before some part of the guarantee goes into operation because Greece fails to fulfil its obligations? It is simply a question of when Estonia is in a situation where we must take responsibility for our guarantee promise.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U39	Thank you. However, I would point out that Greece's previous governments still made quite a lot of efforts to implement the programme. As long as they were on the so-called Friday, we also saw real progress, even though no one really believed in it. We have also seen that in Ireland, Portugal and other countries where this programme has also worked, these countries have also completed this programme, and it has brought them success. We are no longer talking about Ireland or Portugal as a potential insolvency in the country; they are over the worst of times. A few months ago, when I spoke with the previous Greek Prime Minister, Antonis Samaras, I also had the belief that he was really working hard to help Greece with this programme. The elections brought a new government, I am not afraid to say that a government with a populist programme, which, among other things, has promised a country a clearly overpaid minimum wage, which will further increase unemployment in Greece. I'm sure you'll find certain similarities to your party's program. But it doesn't mean any happiness to the people of Greece. I am deeply sorry that the Greek people believed these populist promises that it would be possible to fail to fulfil external obligations. I see that the reality is different and that finding out is very painful for the people of Greece. So that's a very good reason why not pick the poplars.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U40	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U41	Greece has proposed that they comply with 70% of the programme. You were in the government that gave guarantees to Greece for EUR 400 million. Yesterday, you really sent a pre-election announcement that Greece does not have any sense to expect Estonia to reduce its loans or abandon its reform requirements. I understand that before the elections, you need a national hardcore. But in my opinion, it was already made clear to Estonia in 2012 that Estonia's position was irrelevant and Article 4 (4) of the ESM Treaty clearly stated that a small country has no veto right. The French Finance Minister has already announced that he will support the relaxation of the conditions imposed on Greece. If European superpowers support mitigation, how likely is Estonia's opinion going to count?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U42	Thank you. These issues are complicated, and you've got some things a little mixed up. As regards the positions to be drawn up in the European institutions, in any case Estonia will have its say there. Nor is it right that you claim that the great powers of Europe are very supportive of Greece not having to fulfil its obligations in the future. There's no such feeling. We did not discuss this at the European Council for a very long time, but I had discussions with a very large number of colleagues in the Council's so-called costaars. It is quite unanimous, if not even to say that there is very unanimous support for the same positions that Estonia has. The reforms that Greece must implement are primarily in Greece's own interest: privatisation, keeping expenditure under control, and not spending too much, including the minimum wage already mentioned. It has been raised several times higher in Greece than Estonia's minimum wage, although the countries are quite similar from the level of wealth. This can't be sustainable. In my opinion, however, most European countries see these issues in exactly the same way. We cannot be sure of that until the end, but I do believe and hope that the Greek Government will do its utmost to save its country from financial difficulties. The only way that can be imagined is still to make progress in meeting the programme's conditions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U43	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U44	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! In order for Estonia not to have the same problems and problems in the future as Greece, we need to make decisions that are bold and forward-looking, such as decisions that would help the people to be healthier, the people to move and the health costs to be lower. I am talking about abolishing the special preferential tax on sports expenditure. So far, I dare say, the only opponent of the plan approved by the public, businesses, sports circles and also by many health professionals, the red light, has been the Reform Party. You have also repeatedly said that you do not support it. Please tell me what your plans are for the next coalition!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U45	Thank you. I would point out that the elections are still coming, and it is not yet clear who will form the next government. In an interview published today, the President of the Republic stated unequivocally that he intends to propose the formation of a government to the party that will win the elections. If we look at the results of the polls, there are two choices whether it's the Reform Party or the Centre Party. There is still a lot of work to be done to get voters to choose and show their support. As far as the specific tax credit is concerned, I am very sympathetic to the health sport. It's definitely something that connects us. I, of course, am far from being as strong in sports as a respected questioner, but we both have a love for sports. We certainly also have reason to discuss ways of supporting sport and mobility more in Estonia. It is certainly most effective to support various events, including public sports events, but also major sporting events, which the country has done more and more in recent years. Infrastructure should be supported, so you can be sure that the entire investment will go to the right place. After all, the biggest obstacle to introducing this tax exemption has been that there has not been a single solution that would reasonably have ruled out the spending of this money, let us say, for shoes for walking. It's just that a lot of money would go out of the state budget, but it wouldn't be used on an ad hoc basis. Since there have been no proposals with this level of detail, there has also been no debate. But I have nothing against the debate in the present and future Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U46	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The news agency Bloomberg called Estonia the opposite of Greece. In any case, I am quite happy with this comparison. If we, too, had built our own well-being on loan money or introduced a graduated income tax that deters investment, then it would not be much short of us getting into a situation where we have to carry out outside-pressed programmes and ask for help. But I still want to ask you about the prospects for Greece. I understood that the finance ministers of the European Union took a very rigid stance, that the programme had to be implemented under the current conditions and that there was no compromise. What are the moods at government level? Would the Council be prepared to offer any relief, even though I do not think there is a reason or a chance?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U48	Yes, I agree with the questioner that loan money can only feel more prosperous for a very short time. After all, the Estonian people have a very good say about this, which is about loan bread, lotfire and their similarity. As regards the attitude of the Heads of State or Government on this matter, we have listened to the views of our new colleague, the Greek Prime Minister, who described the events and the situation as he sees it all. But we did not open a very big debate on this, because we have decided to trust finance ministers who need to find a solution. Jeroen Dijsselbloem, the head of the Eurogroup, was also present and gave an overview of where the discussions of finance ministers had reached so far. Maris Lauri was just before the Council's meeting of finance ministers, and we received a fresh overview of this from the head of the Eurogroup. It was agreed when the next finance ministers' meetings would be held and what the plan would be for these meetings. We didn't open it up there any more, but as I said to the previous questioners, speaking in the costaars, I still felt that other countries understood things exactly as we did. No one sees an opportunity for Greece to abandon its reforms.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U49	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U50	Next, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure will answer the question posed by Siim Kiisler.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U51	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Economic Affairs! My question concerns in part the same subject that you have already talked about. I am interested in people's electricity bills and in particular in the unreasonable costs of renewable energy charges. You used the expression to stop overcompensating. I understand this in such a way that you think the current system is too generous for businesses, but it is harmful for the consumer. As you have pointed out, indeed, the amendments to the Electricity Market Act were in the process here, you have also tabled amendments, but the vote of the Government Union has interrupted the discussion of this draft in the Riigikogu and this law is not currently being passed. Why did this happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U52	Thank you. Now you are giving me a great deal of power, asking about Parliament's actions. As a minister, I am still the tool of Parliament and at your disposal. What is being done in committee and what decisions are being taken there, I can only help with advice and force. But decisions are made on their own. It is very difficult for me to comment on the decisions taken by the Committee on Economic Affairs, and I do not want to. As regards the proposals made by the Ministry of Economic Affairs on the electricity market law, I look forward to this law being adopted as soon as possible. Let's hope the new formation does it now. The amendments provide, inter alia, that there will be no overcompensation in the future in the sense that, if the market price is higher than a certain level, the renewable energy charge paid by the consumer will be reduced. Only to ensure that renewable technologies enter the market and that the market failure is overcome, but no longer, will be compensated. I am pleased that we have received a State aid authorisation from the European Commission for this scheme, which was a major piece of work. That's what we got in late autumn. I am sorry that the adoption of the Electricity Market Act has been delayed in the Riigikogu. Now this work will remain in the new composition. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the new formation will do this very quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U53	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I ask about the loan burden of the Estonian state. Over the last two years, the loan burden has increased by EUR 1 billion, which is now a total of EUR 1.8 billion, of which EUR 400000 will be secured by Greek bonds. We have put our money away for other countries. Wouldn't it have made sense, four years ago, to take out a loan for the construction of Tallinn's Tartu highway? This road would now have been built and the loan would have been repaid.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U55	Thank you. The figures you brought in seem to be overexploited and very large. It's very difficult for me to comment on them right now. Where did they come from? But when we are talking about the Tallinn-Tartu highway, the very specific amount is that if we were to build the Tallinn-Tartu highway in four lines to Paide, it would cost about 180 million euros. That's what's missing right now. Why am I saying by 2020 and until Paide? It's just really doable. There is no point in making utopian promises. The analysis further shows that until the ship, it is also possible, what it is called, a 1 + 1 line, where you can easily pass, but the traffic load and intensity of traffic are so high that it makes sense to build a path into four lines.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U56	Thank you. Siim Kiisler.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U57	Thank you. Good Minister of Economic Affairs! I come back to the unreasonablely high renewable energy charges that people have to pay. You rightly referred to the European Commission's state aid authorisation. I agree with you that you certainly cannot be held responsible for the outcome of the vote of the members of the Economic Commission as a whole. But that's what I'm asking. Why did your partymates, representatives of the Social Democratic Party, vote in such a way that the second reading of this draft was interrupted and this Riigikogu cannot, unfortunately, adopt this law? After all, your party associates created this situation here in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U58	Thank you. If we are going to talk 'you and me' here, I must remind you that these unreasonablely high charges were imposed under the leadership of your party minister, who was the Minister of Economic Affairs for eight years. However, on this issue, concerning the vote by my fellow Members, you must certainly turn to them. Once again, I do not comment on Parliament's work or on the work of Members of Parliament; I do not consider it appropriate. I may not be familiar with this work in the way you now expect. That's why I'm not gonna think anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U59	Thomas Tõniste.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U60	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I'm really sad that you're trying to pin everything bad on the last minister and put everything good on your account. It wasn't the high fees that Juhan Parts did, it was the previous set-up that did it in 2007. It really isn't worth putting all the bad things on others and showing them all the good things they've got to win. You blame Juhan Parts for having the courage to formulate a major concern in previous elections, a conflict, knowing that the price of electricity is rising because the price of electricity went free, and the cost of home is a problem, and you're only talking about one, though very positive, insulation program for apartment buildings, as if it were something you're doing a good job with now, but others couldn't do it. After all, there was still a law on the restraint of monopolies, which helped save millions, a plan to reduce the charges for renewable energy.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U61	Now it's time to ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U62	The question is that please talk about other things, not just about what has been cut out of the context very specifically.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U63	Thank you. I'm talking about the facts. When the IRL promised to lower home expenses four years ago, after that, home expenses started to rise. Those are the facts. One can bring concrete figures of how much the price of heat rose and how much the price of electricity. When we talk about insulation, he was the Minister of Economic Affairs for seven years, and during that time a few percent of the Estonian building fund could be insulated. They're just facts. When I had to sign the activities of the housing development plan for the last seven years in spring, most of the activities were zeros. Those are the facts. Why didn't they want to do that? I have always said that money has not run out either of the world or of Estonia. I assume that the former Minister for Economic Affairs did not want to deal with housing in a wider sense. They're just dry facts. What else can I say? When we talk about renewable energy charges, the former minister had seven years to bring them down. Seven years! During last year, I managed to obtain a State aid permit that had not been managed for several years. They're just facts. I don't think it would make any sense if I kept these facts under my feet. All the more so if you provoke your questions and allow me to talk about them. That's the way life is.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U64	Siim Kiisler.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U65	Thank you. Good Minister of Economic Affairs! I'm going to be more specific about your knowledge, though. Edgar Savisaar was the Minister for the Economy at the time these high renewable energy charges were introduced. That was said to you for information. However, I am surprised when you say, as Minister of Economic Affairs, that you do not know how and why your partymates vote in the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu. How's this cooperation going, anyway? You tabled 19 amendments to the draft electricity market law and expressed the desire for this law to be adopted immediately. Your party associates were against your will and voted in such a way that the draft procedure was interrupted. Is it not insincere then to say that you very much want to adopt the law and you do not know at all what your party partners are doing here in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U66	I have already answered that question. I say once again that I am not commenting on Parliament's work, that is what you have to discuss here among yourselves. But I'm gonna take a chance and ask you back. The IRL has promised for 12 years, each time before the elections, that a single parent maintenance fund should be set up. It's been one of Reet Rose's election promises he started 12 years ago. The IRL has been in power all these years except the last ten months. But you didn't do that fund. The Social Democrats have been in power for ten months and, under the leadership of the Chairman of our Social Affairs Committee, the proposal that the government should make the establishment of a livelihood fund was immediately adopted in the Riigikogu. Why didn't you do it in 12 years? You've been in power all these years. If I look at your election promises, which are repeated dozens of times every day on television, I'm just ashamed. You promise for 13 years in a row that you will make a living fund. Why should I believe you?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U67	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U68	We have four minutes before Jaan Õunapuu can ask a question, which is answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Urve Palo.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. My colleague Kiisler is so aware that the members of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure have very good cooperation between themselves. As far as the electricity market law is concerned, the problem was not those amendments that came from the Ministry of Economic Affairs but those that came at the end of the procedure and unexpectedly. But now my question. Madam Secretary! Among other things, as Minister for Economic Affairs, you have spoken on issues such as child subsidies and family issues in general, as well as fast-track loans, access to banking services in rural areas, people's emigration, state-supported rentals, etc. You've been working on these issues, too. Why do you think you have to deal with them as Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U70	Thank you for your question. It is a world-view question, but the Social Democrats and I, too, find that economic development depends only and only on whether we have human resources and what it is like. Unfortunately, the Estonian country has not contributed human resources for years and years, and the results are here. The birth rate is close to 1.5 children per woman of childbearing potential. Emigration picks up every year. In Finland, 70,000 Estonians already live officially, people who work there informally, whose number we cannot estimate, so we are talking about 100,000 people. Every year, 1,500 young people who have completed only basic education fall out of the school network. And so on. The right to live a dignified life and to receive a decent income, to live in a socially secure environment, to receive good and adequate education, all of which are not the result of economic development, but a prerequisite. The economy will not develop if we do not have people, if they are not born, if they have not received adequate education, starting from an education of interest, if they are not healthy and if they fail in Estonia. This is also borne out by employers in their latest manifesto, who say that the most important growth engine that develops the economy at all is a human resource that needs to be more valued. All these years in Estonia, the Ministry of Finance has been the star ministry. This isn't right. If we look at all our decisions in a couple of years' cost-benefit perspective, we cannot expect long-term and visionary decisions to be made. It is high time to realise that the ministries of expenditure play a significantly greater role in the development of the Estonian economy than we have ever thought.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U71	Thank you. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu, what a grateful activity at the end of the final Question Time! I am really pleased about this and I believe that you will be able to continue this activity in the next Riigikogu. We also thank the members of the Government of the Republic for participating in Question Time! Question Time is over. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U72	Dear Riigikogu, we will begin the Wednesday session. Does anyone suddenly have a mind to hand over drafts or inquiries? Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U73	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, According to § 36 (5) of the Security Authorities Act, the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities of the Riigikogu provides the Riigikogu at least once a year with an overview of the activities of the Committee and the supervision of security and surveillance institutions. On behalf of the committee, I wish to pass this review on to the honourable Riigikogu. The review shall cover the previous year and the first two months of this year. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U74	I have adopted a report on behalf of the Bureau. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 79 members of the Riigikogu are present, 22 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U75	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Code of Enforcement Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws 803. I'm opening negotiations. Neeme the Great, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U76	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Today, in the final vote, we have a very important draft of 803, which talks about the recovery of maintenance debts. I am very pleased that the Riigikogu has jointly understood that reducing child poverty must be one of the priorities of the Estonian state. This draft is also included in this principle. The draft contains a number of important measures that can reduce maintenance debts and put maintenance creditors in order and motivate them to liquidate their debts. These include improving the efficiency of bailiffs, including, for example, turning the recovery on the financial obligations of a third party, as well as measures which have received a great deal of social response, which provide for the right to hunt off a maintenance debtor, the right to drive a motor vehicle, the permit to acquire a weapon and the permit to acquire a weapon, the right to operate a recreational vessel and a jetty, or the fishing card. The last meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs had an interesting discussion on whether child maintenance is the only concern. We have come to realize that, in fact, maintenance debts also concern older and adult people who are not self-sufficient. The wording of the draft therefore changed in the final stage of the procedure. It's a groundbreaking bill. The Social Democratic Party supports it wholeheartedly, and I hope that it will receive full support from the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U77	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U78	Ladies and gentlemen, The Fatherland and Res Publica Association support this bill. But we recall that this is only one small step on the road so that parents can be sure that they can also complete what they are doing to a child in a good and safe way. Without a living fund, the steps that we are now, hopefully, confirming here at third reading will not be of great benefit. And on the contrary, a livelihood fund without these steps would be too much of a burden on the state. So, once again, let me remind you of the connection between these two things, and I also recall our most important objective. Our most important goal is that no child in the Republic of Estonia should feel either materially or spiritually deprived solely because his or her parents do not get along well with each other or because one parent does not have the will or the opportunity to support a child. So we call for not just what we are discussing today, but for long steps to be taken and, as soon as possible, for the question of a living fund. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U79	On behalf of the Group of the Valdo Randpere Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U80	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Since I had, I would say, good luck handling this bill as a committee judge in the Riigikogu to some extent, I can assure you that we have worked very hard on it. We met a lot of people involved. It's a complex, relatively complicated law. I hope that he will be very effective in practice in the future. If you look at how much work we put down there and how many parties we involved, it could be one of those drafts that have been made in accordance with good practice and very meaningfully and well. The purpose of this draft is that people who owe a living allowance to their minor child, to an adult child unable to work, or to their parents, and who otherwise feel no great enthusiasm for the payment of this maintenance debt, should be reminded at the moment when they are taken away from these more fun things in life, such as hunting permits, driving licences or whatever, that they have a moral and, in addition, a material obligation to someone and perhaps a spiritual connection with their descendants or their parents. At the same time, I would like to stress that, in the course of this draft, we have proposed between the first reading and the second reading, that in the future we will have a register of maintenance debtors. This means that all survivors are visible to those who are interested in it, whether it is a bank that wants to assess a person's creditworthiness, see if he or she already owes someone else something, or even the press, who wants to nail someone for not fulfilling their obligations to their descendants or parents. I, contrary to the previous speaker, do not hope that this law will be a first step, but hope that it will be a final step that will carry out our dream that maintenance debts will no longer exist or, at least, that their number will be reduced so that the creation of a livelihood fund becomes meaningless. In this good faith, we dealt with this bill, worked on it and, hopefully, in the final vote, we will adopt the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U81	I'm closing the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 803. I think we can go to the final vote with your kind permission. As the draft requires a majority in plenary for adoption, we are conducting a presence check. 77 members of the Riigikogu are present, 24 is missing. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the amendment of the Code of Enforcement Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in connection with this, the draft law amending other laws 803. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the Act, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The law amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure and related amendments to other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U82	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. This draft, too, requires a majority in its composition for adoption, which is why we are once again checking the presence. Currently 74 members of the Riigikogu are present, 27 are missing. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic 770. Please take a stand and vote. There were 76 members of the Riigikogu on the 770 side of the bill, no respondents or abstentions. The law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U83	The next item is the third reading of the Act amending the Local Government Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Local Government Election Act. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. It is now also a draft law calling for a majority of the membership. Please, let's do the presence check! 76 members of the Riigikogu are present, 25 are missing. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the draft Act amending the Local Government Organisation Act and the Local Government Election Act 788. Please take a stand and vote. 74 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of bill 788 and there were no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending the Local Government Organisation Act and the Local Government Council Election Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U84	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Prosecutor's Office and the Law on the Courts initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Valdo Randpere, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U85	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, This, too, was a draft that I, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, in particular, was fortunate enough to carry out and to deal with you here. I wanted to say a few words about this bill. When I spoke of the previous bill using only super-envelopes as a very good bill, this bill is quite a good one in itself. But he's a bit of a warning sign for us. The essence of this draft is that we change the name 'Administrative Assistant' by replacing it with 'Administrative Prosecutor'. The reason is that a lot of people have felt that "Administrative Assistant" doesn't sound serious, and they've still wanted to talk to a real prosecutor, and they haven't wanted to talk to a prosecutor. We're going to change that name now. But the tragic side of the case is that ten years ago, the name "Administrative Assistant" was replaced by "Administrative Assistant." What am I saying right now? I think we're making a very good change. But for future generations, if any of you should be in the Riigikogu in ten years' time and a similar bill will be processed again, that they want to turn the assistant prosecutors back into assistant prosecutors for whatever reason, remember my speech today and hold back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U86	There are no further requests to speak. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. The draft requires a majority of the membership to be adopted as a law. Please, let's do the presence check! There's 76 and there's no 25 comms. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Prosecutor's Office Act and the Law on Courts, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 802. Please take a stand and vote. There were 78 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the adoption of the draft 802 as a law, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The Law amending the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Law on the Courts of Justice has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U87	The next item is the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Rescue Services Act and related amendments to other laws 810. I'm opening negotiations. Neeme the Great, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U88	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! The 810 bill is quite substantial and contains a large number of good things concerning police, border guards and also the organisation of emergency services. This draft was particularly marked by the attempt by the initiators, the Ministry of the Interior and the Rescue Board, to change the procedure for paying the compensation for their night work. If, at the moment, the Employment Contracts Act provides for a higher rate of pay for night work of 1.25 times the pay .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This point was problematic in two respects. Firstly, because it would probably have been unfair to the rescuers themselves, but on the other hand because this point was linked to a collective agreement. In fact, the Employment Contracts Act also states that night pay can be included in the basic salary if this is agreed in a collective agreement. A collective agreement between the trade union and the Rescue Board had been concluded at the end of last year, and it was also beautifully stated that a separate fee should be paid for night work. If this bill had disengaged the workers' night wages from the contract of employment, it would have been like going through the back door, taking the legal basis from below, and this point of the collective agreement would have become trivial. Those arguments why the night wages of the rescuers could be included in the basic salary were also entirely there. The Agency will always have the opportunity to negotiate with the Salvation Trade Union and to amend this point of the collective agreement. If men are willing to accept it and understand it unambiguously, you can count the basic salary for the night pay. But the bill to go through the back door and change the principles of paying for night work was not right at this point. I am pleased that the negotiations were positive and that this point was withdrawn from the draft by the Committee on Legal Affairs. So in any case, it's a good bill. The Social Democrats support this and we also hope for it from the rest of our colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U89	There's no more calls. The Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. This bill also requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted as a law. Incoming check, please! There are currently 68 members of the Riigikogu, missing 33. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Rescue Services Act and related amendments to other laws 810. Please take a stand and vote. 67 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no votes against or abstentions. The law amending the Police and Border Guard Act and the Rescue Services Act and related amendments to other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U90	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Act on the Implementation of the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. The adoption of this law also requires a majority of the membership. Incoming check, please! 74 in position, 27 missing. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Act implementing the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic 776. Please take a stand and vote. 75 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending the Act implementing the Code of Criminal Procedure has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U91	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and other Acts initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Social Democratic Party. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask for a speech chair on behalf of the Group of the Grand Social Democratic Party of Neeme.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U92	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, This is also a groundbreaking moment. This bill sets the limit on the rate of charge of the quick-borrowing business. This topic has been in the Riigikogu for quite a long time in the proceedings, but this longer time passed when a bill with another number, or bill No 713, was processed, but unfortunately it fell out of the draft procedure. What do you call the cause of this loss? Was it an accident at work, a sloppy or rather a political cappulation that felt at the time? No matter how you count those who were not voting in the Chamber, but if, for example, the party speaks very insistently in the press that such regulation should be introduced, but none of its members are in the Chamber at the time, even though they are in the House, and none of them will vote, there is no other way to treat it as a political symbol. But, fortunately, we got over it quickly, the draft was re-opened, this time by the Reform Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group. I hope this bill can also be passed as a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U93	On behalf of the Group of the Ken-Marti Vaher Isamaa and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Since all speeches are received at third reading with great enthusiasm, I think we should do more this time. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! There is no need to be ashamed of this bill; it is certainly a step in the right direction. It was shameful, however, to vote on the previous draft of the same content when, regrettably, the coalition failed. That is why we stand before you here today and make another attempt. I assume there are coalition votes this time. The maximum percentage rate of charge has been applied in this Chamber for the last six or seven years. If you remember, in 2009, this issue was also regulated and one quite decent step was taken, it was determined that the excess of the upper limit of the APR would be contrary to good practice. The Ministry of Justice at the time and the then Reform Party Minister for Justice did not agree to proceed. For five years, this issue has matured, and now one step further has been taken and it has been clearly stated that a consumer credit agreement will be negligible if this ceiling is exceeded. There are certain reservations about the ceiling set in this draft itself, which is equivalent to more than three times the cost of consumer loans published by Eesti Pank. As we know, this percentage is close to 30%, which renders about 100% negligible. Unfortunately, I did not see the desire in the Commission or in Parliament to set a lower ceiling. We know that our northern neighbours have this limit much lower, at 50 to 60%. We will probably come back to this topic in the next Riigikogu, and then perhaps we will take another step forward. However, the implementing provisions, where the date of entry into force is set, are reasonable in all respects, so that the market can make timely preparations within the next four months. I hope that there will be little breach of this ceiling, because indeed, the law also provides for a clear definition for the courts that a consumer credit agreement is negligible if there is a conflict with certain clear conditions. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union has clearly supported both this and the previous draft, but I can unfortunately predict that the next Riigikogu will probably continue to deal with the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U95	Kalle Jents on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U96	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I promise I won't take long. However, I decided for a moment to come to this eloquence and also to remind the Central Party Group that this is indeed the draft that sets limits to the rate of charge. Although Ken-Mart Vaher has carried out a long analysis here, I will also say, just in case, that be good and vote in favour of this draft anyway. I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate the good Committee on Legal Affairs. This bill was also dealt with by the Legal Affairs Committee, but the best law prize was awarded to the draft revision of the Penal Code. I was honored to attend the award just a few hours ago. Congratulations to the entire Riigikogu, of course! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U97	There's no more calls. The Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 844. Dear Riigikogu, for the sake of both the verbatim and the accuracy at all, it would be clear to everyone what kind of majority this bill needs to be adopted as a law. He needs a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu. That's why we're doing the presence check. Please! Currently there are 70 members of the Riigikogu, missing 31. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and other laws initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Social Democratic Party 844. Please take a stand and vote. 74 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the draft as 844 law, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U98	The third reading of the draft Act 821 on the prevention and resolution of the financial crisis initiated by the Government of the Republic begins now. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. This bill also requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted as a law, so we will do a verification of the presence. 62 members of the Riigikogu are present, no 39. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law on the prevention and resolution of the financial crisis initiated by the Government of the Republic 821. Please take a stand and vote. There are 67 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 821 as a law, and there are no opponents or abstentions. The Act on the Prevention and Resolution of the Financial Crisis has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U99	The third reading of the draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and in this connection the amendment of other laws begins 809. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The proposal of the commission is to put the draft to a final vote on 809. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and in this connection amending other laws 809. Please take a stand and vote. There were 64 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the bill as 809 law, one against, no abstention. The law amending the law on foreigners and related amendments to other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U100	The third reading of the draft Act amending the Prisoning Act and the Penal Care Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Prisoning Act and the Criminal Care Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 804. Please take a stand and vote. There were 65 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the adoption of the bill as 804 law, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending the Penal Code and the Penal Code has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U101	The third reading of draft Act 822 on the Amendment of State Secrets and Secret Foreign Information Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the State Secret and the Secret Foreign Information Act 822 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 61 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft 822, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending the State Secrets and the Secret Foreign Information Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U102	We have come to the 12th item. The third reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Law and the Code of Enforcement Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Here too, it is possible to participate in the negotiations, but there are no requests for this. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law and the Code of Enforcement Procedure, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 750. Please take a stand and vote. There were 56 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 750 acts, 2 against and 2 abstentions. The law amending the Law of the bailiff and the Code of Enforcement Procedure has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U103	The third reading of the Act amending the Act and the Traffic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I'm opening negotiations. Mikhail Korb, please, on behalf of the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We all want to live in a country where we can feel safe. In March 2015, 20 years will come from the establishment of an assistant police officer. Over the years, relief police have helped the police in their daily work and provided support for major police operations. On behalf of the Centre Party, I want to congratulate all the good people who, in their spare time and enthusiasm, guarantee public order and help our society. I am pleased to note that the study commissioned by the Police and Border Guard Board in summer 2013 shows that there is a strong interest in the work of an assistant police officer. According to the survey, 7% of respondents were willing to consider becoming an assistant police officer over the next year. Although there has been a great deal of interest, the Ministry of the Interior considers that it is not enough motivation to increase the number of auxiliary police officers in society. According to the Ministry, the reason for this is too strict an educational requirement. This draft amends this requirement: instead of secondary education, an assistant police officer must at least have basic education in the future. The Centre Party considers that the person entrusted with public order must have at least secondary education. This is because different types of people are exposed every day to public order. Communication skills, knowledge, and a broad circle of eyes play a major role in such situations. Secondly, knowledge and a broad range of horizons are needed for prevention. It is strange, for example, to imagine a person with basic education facing the upper secondary school class who talks about how harmful drugs are. Thus, since the main tasks of an assistant police officer are to prevent and prevent offences, a stricter educational requirement is already due to the nature of the work itself. On the other hand, the relaxation of educational requirements affects the reputation of the entire police. Society is being signaled that being a lawkeeper does not necessarily require effort on the bench, but becomes a lawkeeper even more easily. Personally, I think that this should not be the quality mark with which we want to describe the police system here. The promotion of an assistant police officer's office needs to be stepped up and more work done to this end. It is difficult to recall the major campaigns that would have called for police involvement as an assistant police officer. There is certainly a need to come up with a clearer motivation package. Finally, the Centre Party does not support this draft, particularly because of the relaxation of educational requirements. We believe that, although the bill entrusts relief police officers with more tasks, which in a sense is a recognition of their professionalism, we cannot and must not accept the relaxation of educational requirements, all the more so when we talk about secondary education being compulsory for all in our society.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U105	There's no more calls. The Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 724. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the law on auxiliary police and traffic law, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 724. Please take a stand and vote. 57 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft proposal, 8 against, with no abstentions. The law amending the law and the law amending the law on traffic has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U106	The third reading of the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act, the Consumer Protection Act and the Study Grants and Student Loan Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, now begins. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U107	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will mark some of its most important places before this law is passed. This is a law that is part of a three-four-pack of law, the common name of which is the laws dealing with various fast-lending issues. It is a good thing that, as one of them, today we have a draft at third reading, with which we are creating a situation where it is no longer possible to do some of the things that were still possible. The first thing is that it is no longer possible to charge interest on late payment. It used to be a so-called geometrical option. It is now very clear that interest on late payment is not allowed. I think it's very important. The second thing that works now and that changes with this bill is that when letters are sent to potential debtors, it was possible to increase the additional claims in the form of 'ancillary' claims to a very large extent, often exceeding the basic debt itself. The law now sets out very clearly the compensation for recovery costs. It's very important, I think. There won't be a way to go crazy with the sidewalks. The third point that I want to make separately is that fines have also been set very clearly. If the percentage charged to the consumer exceeds the threshold prescribed by law, the legal person can be fined up to EUR 32000. It also makes creditors wonder whether it makes sense to go any other way outside the law. EUR 32000 is a relatively large amount. It is part of this big package and of the drafts that we have been working on here in order to make the market work better. Very sensible draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U108	There's no more calls. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 786. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act, the Consumer Protection Act and the Study Grants and Student Loan Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 786. Please take a stand and vote. 69 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one opposed and no one abstained. The law amending the Law of Obligations Act, the Consumer Protection Act and the Study Grants and Student Loan Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U109	The third reading of the draft Act amending the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I'm opening negotiations. I don't want to negotiate. The Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 818. Please take a stand and vote. 66 members of the Riigikogu, no one opposed, and no one abstained. The Act amending the Health Insurance Act has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U110	The next item is the third reading of the Act amending the Emergency Act and the Public Transport Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U111	On behalf of the Bureau, I am very grateful for the active participation in the negotiations. The time is now for us to close the negotiations. So we can go to the final vote on draft 807. Let's start preparing it. I will put draft 807 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 60 members of the Riigikogu, against 1, with no abstentions. The draft Act amending the Emergency Act and the Public Transport Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law. The item on item 16 is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U112	Let's move on to item 17. The third reading of the draft Public Transport Act 812 initiated by the Economic Commission begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? It is not advisable to negotiate, so we can go to the final vote. I will put draft 812 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. The draft Law on Public Transport, initiated by the Economic Commission, has been adopted as 812 law. 17th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U113	Let's move on to item 18. The third reading of the draft law implementing the Construction Code and the Planning Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There are no requests, so we can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 572 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 59 members of the Riigikogu, no one opposed, 3 abstentions. Draft Act 572 on the Implementation of the Construction Code and Planning Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law. 18th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U114	Let's move on to item 19. The third reading of Bill 758 of the Safety Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Is there a desire to negotiate? There are no requests, so we can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 758 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 63 members of the Riigikogu, there are no respondents or abstentions. Draft Act 758 on Safety of Equipment, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been passed as a law. The item on item 19 is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U115	Let's move on to item 20. The third reading of the draft law amending the Waste Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There are no requests, so we can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 790 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 59 members of the Riigikogu, against 1, with no abstentions. The draft law amending the Waste Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 790 has been adopted as a law. The 20th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U116	Let's move on to item 21. The third reading of the draft law amending the Name Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. I will put draft 831 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 69 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. Draft 831 Act amending the Name Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The item on item 21 is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U117	Let's move on to item 22. The third reading of the Act on Adult Education, initiated by the Government of the Republic, begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. I will put draft 798 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 65 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. Draft Act 798 on Adult Education, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been passed as a law. The 22nd item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U118	Let's move on to item 23. The third reading of the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and the Private School Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask for the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, Andrus Saare!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U119	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will quickly summarise the objectives of the draft and the solutions proposed before the final vote. A number of points in this draft would be more appropriate in the electoral leaflet than in the draft law. The word carrying the bill is 'flexibility'. It would be fair to replace'substitution'. There is no other way to mention the so-called flexible solution of using investment support for school support systems, either for hiring support professionals or for purchasing a service. With the exception of Tallinn and Tartu, in Estonian terms, the average local government receives a grant of 2000.3000 euros per year. The investment component is known to amount to EUR 9.7 per student. Can anyone in this hall name a single municipality who considers investment aid to be large enough to be enough of this EUR 2000 to repair the schoolhouse and to hire support specialists? What solution did the Socats, currently responsible for the Ministry of Education and Research, offer in previous PGS discussions, for example in June 2013? I quote their representative's speech: 'One thing is certain: the financing of school support specialists must be taken up by the state. Otherwise, we will sink not only the so-called inclusive education, but the whole system. " Very nice! The fact that there are problems with financing support services is obviously not disputed by anyone in this Chamber. Good social democrats led by the Minister of Education! Is this the solution you asked for when you were in the opposition, or is the movement towards it exactly what you propose when you are in the coalition? The right answer is no. Support systems don't actually get another cent of the money. In short, this is a pre-election principle, a bill that everyone wants to like, which lacks, firstly, an understandable long-term objective and, secondly, a sense of certainty, because several of the so-called flexible funding points that were written before the elections are written together with a word set 'if possible'. Instead, you could also write 'in case of an election'. I consider the financing of private schools to be positive. The financing arrangements for private schools will be changed so that the money will actually end up in private schools. It is in particular by supporting this last point that the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union is in favour of the adoption of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U120	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Mart Meri!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U121	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be very brief. This draft was in one form or another of the proceedings of the Committee on Culture for a very long time. In fact, the Committee on Culture was expecting this draft already during the previous minister's time. At the moment, the content of the draft is what the Committee on Culture was able to agree on. These issues are complex. Indeed, to the next composition, I would like strength and perseverance in order to move forward with the issues of school funding and the system of support specialists. But right now, that was the common part we were able to agree on. That's good. Work on all the issues that have been dealt with in this draft will, in any case, continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U122	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 799 to the final vote. 58 members of the Riigikogu, no one against, 3 abstentions. Draft 799 of the Law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act and the Private School Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been passed as a law. The item on item 23 is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U123	Let's move on to item 24. The third reading of the Bill 753 on Amendments to the Tobacco Act and related laws initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No, I don't. We are going to prepare the final vote. I will put draft 753 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 59 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. Draft Act 753 on amendments to the Tobacco Act and related laws initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. 24. the item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U124	Our 25th item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do you want to open negotiations? I'm opening negotiations. Please, the representative of the Central Party Group, Marika Tuus-Laul. On the spot? From here in the Riigikogu speech chair? Please! You're joking with the manager!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U125	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U126	I'm sure we'll welcome him!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U127	We really don't understand why we need to make such a cosmetic one-word legislative amendment now to replace the word 'annual coefficient' with 'insurance share'. There's nothing substantive about it that's gonna change. Everything's gonna be the same. The injustice that small earners will continue to receive an unfair and humiliating small pension will persist. The question arises as to whether Minister Kütt wanted to make fun of people is that suddenly there are naive people who think that, since this law is now open for discussion and the pension index is being discussed, suddenly something is being changed to the benefit of the low-wage earners. Unfortunately, that is not the case. I am very sorry that the legislative amendment proposed by the Estonian Centre Party Group, that one year of work corresponds to one year of pension insurance, or coefficient 1, was voted down. Actually, that's what's most expected. People keep saying that they expect changes so that people who receive a small salary can receive a fairer pension in the future. They, too, are doing a very necessary job, which is for a small salary. It is not normal, for example, that a person who holds a teaching profession earns a pension that is one and a half times less than an IT specialist. It's not fair! Very many people, including shop sellers, carers, teachers and many others, live in fear of a low pension and part of them leave Estonia in order to get a better salary and earn a normal pension. Our pension system is, we know, structured in such a way that the size of the salary, i.e. the size of the insurance unit, becomes increasingly important, and that means that the state old-age pension depends more and more on the size of the salary. We see that there's more and more stratification. I am very pleased that the Postman opened the debate on this subject, finding that this is no longer the case. The former pension law makers themselves say that something needs to be changed in order to reduce this stratification. We think so, too. We are, of course, very sorry that the current government, the Reform Party and the Soviets, voted down this point and the IRL did not actively intervene. But we want to address this issue very thoroughly, and we have also promised it to the voters. Wage injustice must not be passed on to the injustice of pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U128	Thank you. I now ask for the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, Aivar Koka!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U129	Good manager! Good guys in the hall! I don't think that's a bad law. Putting in place what the annual coefficient, or now the insurance unit, means. Of course, there have been opinions that this annual coefficient should be one way or the other. But there is, of course, one mistake in this bill. The principle of counting the coefficient on the average wage is still maintained. I hope that if a new Riigikogu arrives in this hall in a month's time, it will correct this error as one of the first drafts. The weighting should start on the minimum wage agreed between employers and employees. Then there would be no more of this inequality and people should not wonder how it is possible that you work full-time, but the annual coefficient is still less than 1.0. I wish all those who sit in this room in the next composition, luck and strength! I hope that you will tackle this law and vote in favour of the annual coefficient of the person receiving the minimum wage being 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U130	Thank you. As chair, I am still looking forward to speaking, especially perhaps from the people of Jõgeva and Tartumaa. Representatives from all political groups are welcome. However, there are no more requests. Got it. I shall close the negotiations and begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 808 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 56 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, there are no respondents, 1 member of the Riigikogu is impartial. Draft Act amending the State Pension Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 808 has been passed as a law. Today's 25th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U131	Let's move on to item 26. The following is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Medicinal Products initiated by the Social Committee. I open negotiations and ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party Marika Tuus-Lauli!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U132	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian Centre Party has always believed that the pharmacy service is a type of health care service and that the pharmacy can only be run and held by specialists with specific education. We have worked together in this area with both the Estonian Association of Pharmacists and the representative organisation of pharmacists, who are primarily guided by professional ethics and professional knowledge. They are also pharmacist pharmacists. To date, Estonia has developed this unfortunate situation, where foreign wholesale pharmaceutical companies own nearly 200 retail pharmacies. If absolute free market rules remain in force, it will only take a few years, and all the pharmacist pharmacies that are still working now will be forced to shut down or comply with the orders of the businessman owner. Of course, such a thing must not be allowed. Pharmacies would pile up in larger cities and shopping centres, with a large number of rural areas where the pharmacy is still present missing it. This has also happened with banking services and post offices. I have been speaking here in the Riigikogu for 12 years that only pharmacists should be the owners of pharmacies, not random businessmen without special education. That is why I am very pleased that our most important change today, that the pharmacist becomes a majority member of the pharmacy, is based on the Central Party proposal. After very long and in-depth discussions, the Coalition Party and the Social Democrats also contributed to this. They helped to clarify the draft law and we can approve it together today. Our amendment today that pharmacists become owners of pharmacies has been criticised by the Competition Authority, the Office of the Chancellor of Justice and some other state agencies. At the same time, these same agencies have repeatedly criticised vertical integration, wholesale and retail chains only for a system built on profit interests. I am pleased that together in the spring we adopted the law that vertical integration will be demolished during some transitional period. This is the right time to give a guide to whom the supermarkets should sell. Our clear view is that in the area of health care, professional decisions must be paid, and those decisions must not be influenced by a businessman's owner, who puts the owner's income first. However, the pharmacist has taken an oath and is primarily based on the needs of the buyers. Today's amendment, which we are making together here, has become called a bad-for-nothing revolution in the field of business. I'll disprove it. The field of activity of the pharmacy is not the area of free entrepreneurship. It does not have all the features of free entrepreneurship, because the price of medicines in the pharmacy is not competitive; it is established by national law. So it is not right to talk about restricting entrepreneurship and inconsistency with the Constitution, because the state makes maximum use of its rights to regulate pharmacy services, but it also fails to comply with its obligation to regulate the provision of services, i.e. the number and location of pharmacies in Estonia. If we look at how things are elsewhere in Europe, it turns out that 29% of European countries have a pharmacist 100% sole owner, we have a lower figure. In 21% of European countries, the pharmacist must be the majority shareholder. The rest are subject to all forms of establishment restrictions: so-called demographic, geographical and chain accession restrictions. Our Chancellor of Justice and the Supreme Court have declared these restrictions unconstitutional. One minute more time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U133	Yes, please! One more minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U134	If we think a little bit, we wouldn't want a family doctor to be subject to a foreign entrepreneur, for example. And there is a parallel: why should we want pharmacies to belong to foreign entrepreneurs? So let us make a fair decision together today and put a property limit on it. Let's vote for the pharmacists! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U135	Thank you. All right, any more calls! No, it's not. I'm closing the negotiations. We will begin the preparation of the final vote on draft 782. I will put draft 782 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 49 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 3 against and no abstentions. Draft Act 782 amending the Law on Medicinal Products initiated by the Social Committee has been adopted as a law. Today's 26th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U136	Let us move on to item 27, which is the third reading of draft law 795 on creditors and intermediaries initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. We are going to prepare the final vote. I will put draft 795 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 48 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft Law 795 on Creditors and Credit Intermediaries initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. Today's 27th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U137	We will move on to the 28th item, which is the second reading of the draft Act 833 on Accession to the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Criminal Law Enforcement on Corruption initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Jüri Morozov, member of the Legal Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U138	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft Act 833 on Accession to the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Criminal Regulation on Corruption has been on the table twice in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 26 January and 16 February. The Commission has been informed that no amendments were proposed within the deadline for the submission of amendments and that the Commission has proposed a final vote on the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U139	Thank you. Any questions? No, it's not. Any requests? No, it's not. Let us begin the examination of the amendments. No such draft 833 was received. The position of the commission is that a final vote should be taken. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 833 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 49 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft Act 833 on Accession to the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Criminal Regulation of Corruption, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law. Today's 28th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U140	Good fellows! Before we move to the 29th item, I announce that the Management Board of the Riigikogu has received an important letter. On 18 February, Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, and not Erki Nool, Vice-President, will present the draft law on ratification of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol at second reading. Signed by Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Environment Commission. This is the unanimous decision of the Commission, as I understand it. I now ask for a presentation by Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu, who will report at second reading the draft law on ratification of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol initiated by the Government of the Republic 838!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U141	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law on ratification of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 19 January 2015. The first reading took place on 11 February and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 12 noon on 13 February. No amendments to the draft were tabled. At its meeting on 26 January, the Committee on the Environment decided to submit the draft for second reading and to propose that the draft be put to the final vote on 18 February. I would ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U142	Thank you very much. There are also many questions. Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U143	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good waitress! I don't remember what the contents were. Please speak a few words! [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U144	Thank you, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee. The Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol aims to combat global warming. However, it should be noted that ratification of the Doha Amendment does not entail an additional emission reduction commitment for Estonia, as the EU's and its countries' emission reduction commitments are based on the climate and energy package adopted in 2009 in the European Union, which is clearly stricter than the global Doha package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U145	Thank you. George Ratas has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U146	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! How do you assess whether, in this case, the Kyoto side or the Doha side is more important?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U147	Thank you. I am pleased to see that the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu is like a lightning from behind already in the large hall. But it is clear that, when it comes to the draft law on the ratification of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol, Doha is still more important.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U148	And please, Valdo Randper has another question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U149	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I have a question as to which interested parties were involved in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U150	Jörgen Talkop, Head of Climate and Radiation Department of the Ministry of the Environment, Adviser Anne Mändmets, Head Specialist of the Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs Leelo Männik, Head of the Fish Stocks Department of the Ministry of the Environment, Kaire Märtin, and Lawyer Helen Holtsman.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U151	Thank you very much. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U152	I have a problem. What happened to my colleague Erki Arrow?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U153	Erki Arrow is quite present today and makes the next point the bending exercises. I understand he's getting ready for the next point.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U154	Any more questions for the waitress? It's all clear now. Thank you, Rainer Vakra! Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. No amendments to the draft were received. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 838. We are preparing for the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law on ratification of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 838. Please take a stand and vote. 51 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U155	Our next item, then 30, is the second reading of the draft Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the European Agency for the Operational Management of Large-scale IT Systems in the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia. Mr Andre Sepa, member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, would you like to present the speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U156	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of this Act is to ratify the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the European Agency for the Operational Management of Large-scale IT Systems in the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice in Estonia. The first reading of draft 839 was completed in this Chamber on 11 February. The Committee on Foreign Affairs continued to deal with the draft at its meeting on 16 February. No proposal was submitted by the deadline of Friday 13 February for amendments. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft law on ratification, make a final vote and adopt it as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U157	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions this time. Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. No amendments to the draft were received. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. Let's prepare for the final vote! Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote to the final vote on the draft Act on ratification of the Headquarters Agreement between the European Agency for the Operational Management of Large-Scale IT Systems in the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Estonia, Freedom, Security and Justice 839. Please take a stand and vote. 49 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U158	Our 31st item is the second reading of draft 840 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon' presented by the Government of the Republic. Aivar Riisalu, Vice-Chairman of the National Defence Commission, would you like to present the chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U159	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed this draft before submitting it to second reading at its meetings on 9 February and 16 February. At its meeting on 9 February, the Commission adopted by consensus the text of the draft second reading. At its meeting on 16 February, the National Defence Committee unanimously approved the draft explanatory memorandum to the second reading. More about the text of the second reading of the draft. In points 2 and 3 of the draft, the word 'Republic' has been deleted after the country's name Lebanon as a technical specification, bringing these points into line with the title of the draft. This clarification is also in line with the wording of the decision adopted by the Riigikogu on 11 December 2014 concerning the UNTSO mission, which led the Riigikogu to mandate the Defence Forces to participate in the UN-led peacekeeping mission in Lebanon in 2015. One of the tasks of UNIFIL is to ensure the security of this UNTSO observation mission. The author of the bill supports the clarification of the National Defence Commission. The draft also involved a meeting of the National Defence Commission on 10 February, attended by Lt-Gen Riho Terras, Commander of the Defence Forces, and other representatives of the Defence Forces, who gave an overview of the activities of the Estonian Defence Forces in international mission areas, including the situation in Lebanon and the preparation of Estonian Defence Forces units to participate in UNIFIL's mission. According to the draft, a unit the size of the Estonian Defence Forces team is participating in UNIFIL, a United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon, where 10226 blue helmets were active as of February. As a member of the United Nations, Estonia contributes to peace in crisis regions. On 9 February, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose that the second reading of the draft under discussion be terminated, that the draft be put to the final vote and that the Riigikogu adopt it as a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U160	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Aivar Riisalu! Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. No amendments have been received. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 840. We are preparing for the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the UN peacekeeping mission in Lebanon', as presented by the Government of the Republic, draft 840. Please take a stand and vote. 54 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U161	Today's 32nd item is the second reading of the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Principles of Estonian Sport Policy until 2030' presented by the Government of the Republic. Lauri Luige, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U162	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic initiated the Riigikogu's decision 'Principles of Estonian Sport Policy until 2030' in the draft. a January 12th. The fundamentals of sport policy are a strategic document at the level of the Riigikogu, the possibility of adoption of which is laid down in § 20 of the State Budget Act. The development of the fundamentals of sport policy stems from the need to determine the vision of Estonian sport policy, the national target and the priority trends. Moving and a healthy lifestyle is one of the pillars of survival, which also has an important educational, entertaining and social dimension. The development of sport and exercise activities significantly diversifys the fields of cultural and youth work in Estonia, contributes to the economic environment and employment, and contributes to better integration of the various parties involved. In short, about the vision of Estonian sports policy and the national objective. In 2030, the mental and physical balance and well-being of Estonians should correspond to Nordic levels. That's the goal we're trying to reach. We will then have a living environment conducive to physical activity, along with appropriate services that will support people's healthy lives, self-realization and economic growth. The draft defines sport as a promoter of vitality, the creator of wealth and the designer of the good reputation of the state. The draft also sets out the main values of movement and sport: fair play, cohesion, inclusion and openness, including volunteering, healthy and active life, lifelong self-development and, ultimately, responsibility as a matter of great importance. Four main trends have been identified: firstly, that the majority of the Estonian population is moving and sports; secondly, that movement and sport are also an industry and an employer; thirdly, that movement and sport must be the bearer of spirituality, coherence and positive values; fourthly, that Estonia is represented effectively and with dignity at international level. The first reading of the draft was on 21 January this year. The members of the Riigikogu, political groups and committees did not submit proposals by the deadline for submitting amendments, 4 February. The Committee on Culture discussed the draft for the second reading on 9 and 16 February. As a result of the debate, we decided, on behalf of the Commission, to propose two amendments to the draft, both editorial: firstly, the draft will be editorially and technically specified, and, secondly, the draft item on reporting will be redrafted. On 9 February the Committee on Culture decided to submit a draft for second reading at 828nd reading on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu by 18 February, to propose that the second reading be closed and that the draft decision be put to the final vote after the second reading has been completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U163	Please ask a question, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U164	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Of course, it is good to have the fundamentals of sports policy approved in the Riigikogu, but this document is very general and, in my opinion, more literary reading material. But here's my question. Do you agree that the biggest drawback of Estonian sports policy is that the role and responsibility of the state in organising and financing sport is undefined? In fact, by confirming these fundamentals, we do not get any clarity on this fundamental issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U165	It is undoubtedly crucial that the responsibility for this area is clearly defined. The field of variety is known to be the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture in Estonia and therefore the Ministry of Culture is the department that curates the field of sport. Local authorities have a very clear responsibility for human health and for dealing with sport. The law does not oblige local authorities to support sport, but I think it is elementary. If we look at statistics, we can see that the contribution of local authorities to supporting sport has started to increase again since the global economic crisis eased. So municipalities understand its importance very well. Indeed, this decision is a rather general document. It is a concentrate of a 40-page working version that went through a discussion at the Estonian Sports Congress at the end of last year. The decision is consciously general. When we look at other similar policy documents, their wordings are broad-based and very comprehensive. But the principle is that all these political documents are accompanied by operational programmes and action plans, which are already much more specific. They contain a series of objectives and actions on how to move towards them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U166	Thank you. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U167	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I have a very specific question. As a sports specialist and author of this document, can you explain to me what the Land Sports Association is and what the City Sports Association is? I know the RV Force exists. But can you tell me what a city sports club is? And what's the difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U168	As long as the sport is done, this is the most important thing. But we also have a union of cities and a union of rural governments, I think you can look for these basics somewhere there. It is important that every sport has a responsibility, such as the sports federation. For example, the Estonian School Sports Association is responsible for school sports. I think it is very nice that there are many umbrella organisations that are responsible for sport activities, either by sport or by region. If they succeed and their work is effective, it is very good.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U169	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U170	Thank you. Good waitress! It says nicely that employers will be given a more favourable legal environment so that they can offer workers mobility and sports opportunities. Likewise, such beautiful, round talk. But what I understand is that there is actually talk of abolishing the special preferential tax on expenditure on sport. Is it written in here so round that the Reform Party is against it? It's still the wish of the sports people. Is that why it's put in there so we can sneak away from it again?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U171	There is no doubt that nothing has received a letter here with the aim of evading it. Rather, it is because it is considered important to further develop. And what specific action to encourage sport in the future will be legalised, it is in our hands. The current vision paper sets the framework and the direction we should move towards. As we move in this direction, there is indeed a need for more private capital to be involved in sport, so that companies can better motivate their employees. So, in one possible direction, it has been deliberately pointed out here, not at all, in order to circumvent anything, but rather to move forward firmly.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U172	Thank you. Helir-Valdor Seeder, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U173	Thank you. Honourable waitress! There is no Land sports association Force in Estonia, there is the Estonian Sports Federation Force. I will say this for clarification to one of the previous questioners. But you're a sports specialist now. I have not understood so far how much national sports policy is being implemented by the Ministry of Culture and how much by the Estonian Olympic Committee and how much by someone else maybe. Speaking of funding, you said that local authorities should be interested in promoting sport and their role is very important in organising sport. State, local authorities and sports enthusiasts, parents, can you tell me how the volume of funding has changed in proportion between them over the last ten years? How much funding does the state, how many municipalities and sportsmen, amateurs themselves, parents? Whose share has grown the most?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U174	Thank you very much. First of all, thank you for calling me a sports specialist for the second time. I don't know where this definition comes from, but it's nice to hear it in itself. If you take this document's explanatory statement, there are some pretty thorough graphs. I know where your question is going: you want to say that people's own participation in sport has increased in recent years and people are contributing more to sport. It's good in itself. If we look at the years that followed 2008 and 2009, which were very difficult financially, then the contribution of municipalities to sport has now started to grow, and so has the state's contribution. The specific percentages and other figures can be retrieved from the explanatory memorandum from there you can view them. But I've already described the general tendencies. In my opinion, it is important to motivate even more private capital to engage and motivate municipalities that are not currently sport-friendly to contribute more to sport. I do not necessarily consider it necessary for the municipalities to have all the things that are reasonable to do prescribed by law. In my opinion, without this, any normal local government leader should stand for the people of his municipality or city to be healthy, happy and want to live in that municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U175	No further questions. Thank you, Lauri Swan! Do you want to open negotiations? Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U176	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that sport has finally become so important for the members of the Riigikogu that we are today adopting the fundamentals of Estonian sports policy until 2030. This is due to the serious work of the sports community for two years, during which professionals in the field have mapped out concerns and made proposals on how to proceed and have reached consensus. Yes, it is also a concern that the foundations of sport policy could be a more concrete document, but it is also a good step. A healthy, active and athletic nation This is one part of Estonia where, I believe, we all want to live. If people moved more, health costs would be lower. So actually, it's a lot easier than it looks sometimes. The main problems are that Estonian sport is not actually run. This also came out of yesterday's debate on sport, organised by the Olympic Committee. When I asked if anyone remembered any ministers of culture for whom sport had been a priority, no one remembered anyone. That's actually why we're stopping. If we look at the budget lines related to sport, they have remained relatively stable. Only one figure that has been added to sport at third reading will change. It is good that there are many athletic people here in the Riigikogu who find that sport is underfunded. They are channelling additional resources, but there is also a small problem: the distribution of all money could be much more transparent. I think it's gonna be a win-win. A situation in which politicians are elected presidents of sports federations so that the tax money paid by me, all of you and the whole people can be distributed, hoping for a post or more votes against it, I don't think, is pretty. Especially not in sports where we talk about the rules of fair play. I've been involved in indirect corruption myself for me, if I may say so, but I don't feel good about it. The proposal to abolish the special incentive tax on expenditure on sport has been an issue for years. The sports and movement support group of the Riigikogu, or whatever its name is, has in fact dealt with two main problems or set two major goals: the introduction of a wage supplement for coaches, the valorisation of the coaching profession and the abolition of the special preferential tax. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U177	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U178	Fortunately, at the last moment, we began to offer solutions to the coach problem, but the special bonus is still at the expense of sport. As a result, our country is losing much more money than the Minister of Finance has so far feared, the sums that we can actually lose in the budget are some hundreds of thousands or million euros, but what would be replaced is five to eight times higher. To conclude, according to our decision today, the Minister will attend this Chamber at least once a year to report on what he has done for sport and why nothing has been done. This is a big step forward. I hope that this is only one initiative to ensure that we all value sport considerably more. I hope that the next minister responsible for culture and sport will work harder and want to contribute more to sport, understanding how important this is for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U179	Thank you. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Two amendments to the draft had been tabled by the lead committee, and we will review them. Amendment 1, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Proposal No 2, the lead committee has taken this fully into account. The amendments have been examined. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 828. We are preparing for the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic on 'The Fundamentals of Estonian Sport Policy until 2030' 828. Please take a stand and vote. 46 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, there was no one against, 1 member of the Riigikogu is impartial. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U180	Our item on agenda No 33 is the report on the implementation of 'Criminal Policy Developments until 2018' 2014. Before we go to it, I'll introduce you to the procedure. First, the presentation by the Minister of Justice is up to 20 minutes, followed by questions. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. Subsequent negotiations involving representatives of the political groups will take the floor. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. I would like to present the speech chair to Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U181	Dear Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The so-called door-to-door studies have also revealed that crime no longer offers as much talk in Estonian society as it did ten years ago. Only 7% of people think crime is a problem. Only a few years ago, this figure was more than 40%. There are several reasons for this. I would also like to mention here a numerical figure, which can only be welcomed on the eve of the anniversary of the Republic: in independent Estonia, both before the war and after the 1990s, the number of killings per 100000 people has never been so small. At the end of the 1930's, this figure reached just over six deaths per 100,000, while last year there were three deaths per 100,000. It has been smaller only during the occupation period 1960-1964. until 2004, when the number of killings on Estonian territory was even lower. Now for the report. As usual, I'll start with an overview of the crime situation. Before diving into the world of numbers, I would like to say that I believe that the objectives and activities of criminal policy should be summed up in a single task, and that is the task of reducing crime. In a low-crime country, people are safer to live, and there must be a sense of security both at home and at school, both at work and on the streets. It is clear that the activities of the justice system can only form one piece of mosaic in pursuit of and securing such a situation, but, on the other hand, the same mosaic is also the reason why the Ministry of Justice does not only pursue penal and procedural law, but also actively participates in the development of social and educational policies that help reduce crime. Now the world of numbers. In 2014, 37787 crimes were registered by the investigating authorities and the prosecutor's office, 5% less than a year earlier and a third less than ten years ago. The reduction in the number of registered crimes has been significant and continuous in Estonia. 2008 was the only year in which the number of crimes increased slightly in the last decade. This is usually the place where skeptics say one of two things: that the laws have changed, or that people no longer report crimes to the police. Of course, the Penal Code has changed, but if we count the legislative changes, we will see that the list of criminalised acts has increased over the last decade, not decreased. Similarly, in the case of thefts, making the border a criminal offence or qualifying them as a misdemeanour has not overall increased the amount of these offences. However, the problem of not reporting crimes is undoubtedly present in Estonia. As a result, the Ministry of Justice is also commissioning a victim study along with recorded crime statistics, which helps to explain trends in crime through people's interviews and allows an assessment of how many crimes people still report to the police. These studies show that information about more than half of the crimes, unfortunately, does not reach the police. In 2014, 44% of the victims of the theft and 40% of the violence reported to the police. However, the situation has improved in this regard as well, and the number of victims who turned to the police is increasing year after year, rather than decreasing. The 2009 victim survey showed that 23% of the violent crimes were reported to the police, and 25 to 38% of the victims reported the main types of the theft. Significant changes in the structure of crime have also taken place in ten years. The share of theft has decreased significantly, but the proportion of violent acts has increased. Many external factors play a role in crimes against property, such as changes in people's daily habits or in the aftermarket. The ever decreasing volume of cash settlement has increasingly led to the transfer of crimes against property to cyberspace. Last year, nearly 16,000 thefts were registered in Estonia, which is 4% less than in 2013. The number of shoplifts and vehicle thefts increased over the year, but the number of car thefts was reduced. According to the victim survey, 2 to 4% of the population were the victims of the theft. In terms of the number of crimes against property, Estonia is approaching the European average, but the number of thefts will probably not decrease sharply. If we want a breakthrough change, we need to find more effective ways to deal with people who are addicted to drugs. The geographical distribution of crime didn't surprise me. Within a year, crime fell in eight counties and grew in six. As before, crime is more common in Tallinn and Ida-Virumaa. Regarding Tallinn, where there are people, there are also victims and criminals. For Ida-Virumaa, however, it should be noted that the region is characterised by the simultaneous manifestation of various risks more than elsewhere in Estonia. There too, crime is the result of social problems and circumstances. This also means that people are not only exposed to crime there anymore, but also feel safer than elsewhere in Estonia. Last year's Estonian social survey showed that 12% of households consider crime to be a problem near their place of residence. This figure has decreased significantly in ten years, for example by 28% in 2004 and 21% in 2007. Fortunately, these figures have also improved in North-East Estonia: in 2014, 23% of the households there perceived the crime problem. In conclusion, Ida-Viru County is five to ten years behind the rest of Estonia in terms of its crime and sense of security. Now I come to the main theme of the report, or violence. I am not highlighting this issue solely because prevention of violence is very important to me personally. First of all, reducing violence is an important factor in developments in criminal policy. Four points are all about measures and objectives in this regard. No other area has received so much attention in this document. There is also reason for this, because the problem of violence is a major problem in our society and it must be the focus of attention. At the same time, the subject of violence was at the forefront of the Ministry of Justice last year because, when I took office, I set two major goals for myself and the Ministry to prevent violence. One important objective was to sign the Convention on Combating Domestic Violence against Women, the Istanbul Convention, which was signed in Strasbourg on 2 December. For our country, it is not just a symbolic signature, but an obligation to fight domestic violence structurally, using the interaction between legislation and executive power. The victims must be helped and the attitude towards violence and its victims changed. Much work remains to be done, but I am convinced that commitment to this area will reduce violence not only in homes but in a much wider sense. Another important objective was to develop a new development document to reduce violence as Minister of Justice. This was a lot of work last year, and that is what I will talk about in my next speech. I will stop for a moment at the review of penal law to mention the main changes to the Penal Code on violence. Since 1 January, committing an offence against a person is an aggravating circumstance in the presence of a child. This is one measure, among others, which will help to break the vicious circle of violence and end the situation where children see the use of violence in family relations and start to view it as normal. Another important change now is the separate punishable physical abuse committed against a person in a close relationship. From now on, there will be a harder sentence. Preparations for the transposition of the EU Victims Directive should also be noted from the past. I am sure that this will improve the situation of the victims in Estonia. However, substantive discussions on this subject are already in the next Riigikogu. I see the need to work to ensure that we live in a country where all victims are guaranteed safe shelter where necessary and timely social and legal professional assistance. Last year was also special because the biggest campaign to prevent domestic violence started so far 'Open Your Eyes! ', which will continue this spring. Now back to the numbers. Every violent death is at the same time a personal tragedy and a loss to society as a whole. In other words, every life saved is a great victory. This is also due to the fact that there is both bad and good news in last year's killing statistics at the same time. As I said at the beginning of the report, 55 killings and killings were registered in Estonia, which is seven fewer than in 2013, and historically one of the smallest figures. Killing resulted in 40 deaths last year, most of the remaining cases being attempted killing. On the one hand, it is too much for our small country and population. At present, there are only two countries in the European Union where the level of violent deaths is higher than in Estonia; these are our southern neighbours Latvia and Lithuania. When we passed the other Baltic countries in the last decade, it will probably take another decade to catch up with Finland, Bulgaria or Romania, for example. For us to be at the European average level, the number of violent deaths should not exceed 20 per year. We have to work hard to get to it and keep our people safe. On the other hand, we have to see where we're coming from. 20 years ago, there were more than a year of killings in Estonia, i.e. almost ten times more than today. In 2013, 52 people died as a result of violence. So we have also taken a big step forward in comparison to one year. The reduction in the number of killings was certainly the most satisfying one in criminal statistics last year. Looking behind the figures, we see that the number of killings decreased mainly due to a reduction in domestic cases: in 2013 there were 19 domestic violence killings, last year 10. The total number of reported violent crimes decreased by 6% last year after three years of growth. 7489 violent crimes were registered. According to a victim survey by the Ministry of Justice, 2 to 3% of the population suffered violence within a year. Given the statistical nuances, it is between 16,000 and 36000 people. This shows again that most cases do not reach the police. Alcohol is the main risk factor for violence, while reducing drug dependence would help to reduce early crime. More than half of the acts of violence in general and more than 80% of the killings in Estonia are committed in a situation where at least one participant is intoxicated. Family violence crimes account for 36% of reported violent crimes, i.e. one in three violent crimes dealt with by the police is within the family. Last year, 2721 domestic violence crimes were recorded in Estonia and, unlike the rest of the violence crimes, the number of domestic cases decreased, remained at the 2013 level. Two thirds of cases of domestic violence are related to violence by current or former partners, 16% of cases of violence by parents against their children or adoptive children, and 10% of cases of violence by children against their parents or grandparents. Preventing domestic violence, responding to domestic violence and helping victims were a priority in 2014 and will certainly remain at the forefront of the future. Alongside violence, developments in criminal policy focus much on the prevention of juvenile delinquency and the reduction of repeated crime. I will speak in a few words about these areas as well. Supporting the prisoner after release is an important issue in reducing repeated crime. Three things are well known that favour re-crime. Firstly, if a person is kept in prison for a very long time, secondly, if he is separated as far as possible from free life and society during imprisonment, and thirdly, if he is released from prison suddenly and without the support and supervision of any state. If these so-called conditions are met, it is quite likely that a person released from prison will commit a new crime within a few months. That is why the government, following the guidelines of the Riigikogu, has acted to make the release of a person from prison as smooth as possible and to reduce the risk of committing new crimes. In this context, the opening prison of Tartu must first be noted, which will be completed in a few months' time. Although opening prisons are still missing in Estonia after that, we are still taking a big step towards ensuring that the adaptation period spent in the opening prison is part of the normal process of release. Another important activity in 2014 was the development of support services for those released from prison in order to alleviate the problem of non-residence and support reintegration into the labour market. We have now announced two procurements that we want to use throughout Estonia as a support person and provide accommodation services for those who are free of residence. In other countries, practice has shown that supporting release in key areas of life reduces reversibility. It has also been a very good year to prevent juvenile crime. Never before has there been as much money invested in prevention as last year. We supported families, municipalities and youth organisations, special schools. But we also made final preparations to launch an intensive family program to help the most difficult minors and their families. Experience from other countries shows that this multidimensional family therapy will deliver better results than the social programmes used so far in the justice system. I am sure that this will allow us to keep a large number of young people away from closed facilities and reduce all juvenile delinquency. I would stress that this is a fundamental change in our criminal justice system. Instead of focusing only on the child, we are actively engaged in the whole family. I will therefore finish my review of the developments in criminal policy in 2014. For more information on the crime situation, see the "Crime in Estonia 2014" collection, which should be on your desks or on the literature table behind the door, and the accompanying material, which provides a more detailed overview of the activities by purpose. On behalf of the Ministry of Justice, I thank members and officials of the Riigikogu for their cooperation in developing criminal policy in 2014!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U182	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U183	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I certainly congratulate the Minister for Justice and the whole group once again for a good overview that is well read and well monitored. However, I ask such a slightly more general question. I see that the increase in the total number of crimes is largely due to various forms of counterfeiting. I wonder if some kind of larger wave has started or what it's about.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U184	Counterfeiting is certainly mainly related to economic crime in the criminal world. And in economic crime, counterfeiting is a good opportunity for tax crimes, for example. What are the links between counterfeiting and economic crime and how to better prevent counterfeiting as a growing form of crime, an analysis will be carried out at the Ministry of Justice in order to provide guidance to law enforcement authorities in the coming years on how to better combat this type of crime, including through law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U185	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U186	Thank you. Mr. Minister for Justice. In your speech, you informed us of what was happening in Ida-Virumaa, and you also gave him a rod. But your report will cover activities until 2018. My question to you is: what are you thinking of doing in Ida-Virumaa in the next three years?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U187	Thank you. That's a very good question. Unfortunately, Ida-Virumaa has always been one of the children of concern in shaping Estonian criminal policy. This is particularly the case with social programmes and support to combat crime. In my next speech, when I talk about a strategy for preventing violence, I will also touch on those sub-objectives that will be pursued more intensively in the future in Ida-Viru County. It must also be borne in mind that if we want to reduce violence and change the attitudes of society towards domestic violence, this work must certainly be done in several languages. Russian-language information also needs to get to the people better. I said earlier that we are beginning to reach European level in reducing crime, especially I stress, in reducing violent crime in terms of our laws. There is nothing to blame for our Penal Code or perhaps the Code of Criminal Procedure, which in itself must, of course, be in constant development. At the same time, there is a need for a variety of programmes to help people emerge from the spiral of violence. It is certainly important that a person should not face his problem alone as a victim. This is one of the most significant goals of domestic violence, that the victim should be assisted. He must, as they say, hold his hand so that he can feel the support and not be afraid of the person who is violent against him. He must have the courage to speak to a social worker about it; he must have the courage to ask for legal aid and, after all, to conduct the whole procedure. One problem has certainly been that in Ida-Virumaa, these support systems have so far not developed as quickly as elsewhere in Estonia. We are taking the development of women's shelters across Estonia, with 13 women's shelters already, but there are very few in Ida-Virumaa for the population there.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U188	Please, Etti Kagarov!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U189	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Since the talk went to Ida-Virumaa, my question is as follows. I know you have translated many laws into Russian, but how can free legal aid be obtained in the new period in Ida-Virumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U190	There are a number of measures to this end. At the Ministry of Justice, we have launched an analysis of how to offer more free legal aid to people who need it. I have been forced to go to court with the Estonian Bar Association. At first instance, the Ministry of Justice won the barristership, and it was about budgetary resources aimed at legal aid. When we talk about the future, one of the results of this analysis should be a recommendation on how to improve regional legal aid opportunities. This concerns both North-East Estonia and South-East Estonia, where the number of lawyers is not so high as to provide the necessary legal aid. The second measure is that, from 1 January, the Estonian online environment became very well established, in addition to juristtaitab.ee, an analogous Russian-speaking environment. Judging by the number of turns, we have received quite good feedback. In the course of a few working days, the person will be given help online, and he will be placed in the right gutter, letting him know what legal conflict he may be in, whether it is a conflict at all, and what steps he should take in the future. I think this is a first but very important step to improve people's knowledge of their rights and obligations. This avoids the situations that I saw ten months ago by visiting the premises, including the courthouse in Narva, where I was given examples that people had come to court with an application, for example, under the Russian NFSV Civil Code of the 1970s. This shows that people's legal awareness is unfortunately low and that raising legal awareness must certainly be the responsibility of the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U191	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Andres Anvelt. Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The debate on this item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U192	The next item on the 34th item is the debate on the strategy for the prevention of violence 2015 to 2020. I ask again for a presentation of the speech chair by Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U193	Madam President! Greetings again, honourable Riigikogu! Next, I will report to you the strategy for preventing violence prepared by the Ministry of Justice and reviewed and confirmed by the Government of the Republic in 2015 to 2020. Before going to the content of the strategy, I will explain why I consider it important to tackle the reduction of violence and why a strategy for preventing violence has been drawn up at all. I believe that helping those experiencing violence, reducing and preventing violence should primarily be a national priority. If the country is focused on the problem, explains it and works to reduce violence, it is also possible to influence the general attitude to violence. It is certainly a necessity in our society to be clear to all of us: violence in all its nature is deplorable, and the perpetrator must be given great attention. People need to realize that violence is a disgrace. I therefore consider it my duty to constantly emphasise the nature of the problem, and I courageously stand up for family violence, including violence against children, violence in the relationship, sexual violence and all other forms of violence to be noticed and to deal with the harm caused by their consequences. Studies show that almost one in three Estonians knows about their family and friends who have fallen victim to domestic violence. Of women aged 15 to 74 years, 40% of children have experienced physical violence and 10% have experienced sexual violence. According to a recent male study, 55% of men aged 16 to 55 have been exposed to physical and 3% sexual violence in childhood. In general, this would mean that almost 30 of the members of the Riigikogu, for example, feel the potential victim of domestic violence and the parties have been physically abused in childhood. It is a game of numbers, but it clearly shows that violence in Estonia is not a pseudo-problem, it affects every layer of society. A misconception that sometimes interacts with the media is that it is only the concern of the poor, not the people who can handle themselves. In particular, when it comes to violence, I am concerned that violence tends to recur and that it is difficult to get out of the circle of violence. Children who are victims of, or witnesses of, violence are more likely to be exposed to violence in adulthood, either as victims or as perpetrators of violence. I'll come back to the numbers for a second. It is worth remembering that if we compare the spread of violence reported by the population survey with official criminal statistics, it turns out that only a small number of cases of violence can be seen from the perspective of police support organisations. I would like to draw attention to another nuance concerning violence: there is a clear distinction between certain types of violence. There are more women among the victims, and in addition, violence has often been more severe and the consequences worse for women. In general, the spread of violence in society is largely linked to gender inequality. The gender differences in violence I have seen with my own eyes while working for the police and I think it needs special attention. Therefore, in this strategy, we have paid close attention to violence against women in particular. This is also illustrated by the fact that tens of indicators of the strategy express directly the planned changes in the treatment and assistance of victims of violence against women and domestic violence. Estonia's efforts to prevent violence are supported by international guidelines. It is worth mentioning the Council of Europe Convention on Combating Domestic Violence against Women. I also recall that it was only at the end of last year that we ratified the Council of Europe Convention on Trafficking in Human Beings in this Chamber. Neither of these documents is solely for formal enforcement, both of which oblige countries to fight violence more widely and to adapt their laws as well. Now, on the main issue, on the content of the strategy to prevent violence. The strategy aims at reducing violence in Estonia by 2020, especially in five areas: child violence, child abuse, domestic violence, sexual violence and human trafficking. In particular, we assess the achievement of this objective on the basis of the number of cases of violence and the tolerance of violence. Equally important, however, is awareness of the possibilities for assistance, good quality of support services, victim-friendly handling of cases of violence and reducing the relapse of perpetrators. All of this is regularly measured to assess the effectiveness of the strategy. Although most people in Estonia deplore the use of violence in close relationships, a tenth of us still think that it is sometimes inevitable. This attitude especially stands out among young and non-Estonian men. Moreover, just over a fifth of people feel that domestic violence is an internal matter of the family, where outsiders should not intervene. This shows that we still have much to do to change people's attitudes and the general idea pattern. This can only be done by actively and regularly holding the subject in the picture, through campaigns and other information and training activities. More attention needs to be paid to children and young people who have grown up and whose attitudes and behaviour are more likely to change. In the case of violence between children, school violence has been one of the most important areas of discussion. According to various studies, between 1 in 4 and 5 schoolchildren have been victims of school bullying. There are signs that bullying is transmitted to cyberspace. It has also been confirmed that the worse the child's social skills, the more divided he has with his friends and parents, and the worse his relationship with his parents, the more likely he is to commit offences and be victims. Although many forms of violence, such as school bullying and dating violence, relate to student relationships both within the school territory and elsewhere, we focus on prevention activities organised through the school. Child abuse occurs primarily at home or in an extended family circle. Unfortunately, there are other cases of sexual abuse. In almost half of the cases of sexual crimes in contact with a minor victim registered in 2014, the suspected perpetrator's child's family member was, in nearly a third of cases, familiar. In police cases, the victim was on average 10 years old, and the abuse at that time often lasted undisturbed for years. To protect children in the best possible way and to rule out their abuse, responsible adults need to have their eyes opened. The eyes of people who are unaware that their role is to help a child and that they can do so if they notice and listen. You must knock on the conscience of people who are aware of abuse but do not have the courage or the ability to intervene. Without waiting for further appalling acts, treatment, counselling and rehabilitation should be offered to those who may be potential abusers. In the area of trafficking in human beings, most cases of sexual exploitation of women have come to light, but more and more talk about occupational exploitation. To prevent and respond to such incidents in a timely manner, children and young people need to start educating how to defend themselves. We can also see great benefits from involving companies. Trafficking in human beings as a crime has soon been in place for nearly three years. At the same time, unfortunately, this issue is still somewhat alien to ordinary citizens, or potential victims, as well as to those who identify them, i.e. practitioners and aid organisations. In order to reduce violence, we are planning to make changes through four major blocks of action: changing attitudes and educating people, protecting victims, solving cases of violence and treating perpetrators in a certain way. Firstly, we want to change people's knowledge of violence and to shape general attitudes in this area. The notion that violence is not accepted in our society must reach everyone. Knowledge of the nature of violence and its long-term negative impact must reach both the general public and the narrower target groups. Practical information must also be provided on how to protect yourself or your loved ones from violence and where to turn for help. To prevent child risk behaviour, children's social skills must be developed so that they can resolve conflicts without violence. The issue of children's e-security needs to be consistently addressed in order to protect them from online threats, including cyber bullying and other forms of violence. Schools need to implement anti-bullying and other evidence-based violence prevention programmes with public money, the results of which we can already be confident. In other words, programmes showing results elsewhere should be preferred. Special attention needs to be paid to professionals in kindergarten, school and healthcare systems, as well as to children's special needs institutions, in order to notice violence. Secondly, the main focus of the strategy is a victim-centred approach to the safety and assistance of victims. In order to ensure the safety of victims and avoid further suffering, victims must be fully supported in social, health and legal systems. As in society as a whole, attitudes towards victims and violence play a major role in providing services and other support to victims. There is a widespread view that women who are victims of violence are also guilty of violence themselves. This attitude must be vigorously combated because it reduces the courage of victims to talk about violence and seek help. I would point out that the victim can never be responsible for the crime committed against him himself. An unambiguous service system is essential for effective assistance to victims, and it must be known who, where and what service is provided to victims of violence. To this end, it is important to organise a system of national victim support, health care institutions, municipalities and non-governmental organisations. We also need to create services that are lacking so far, such as special assistance for victims of sexual violence. We must ensure the sustainable financing of women's support centres and the flexibility of the system and the mobility of services. Provision of information on the possibilities for receiving aid needs to be improved. A recent study showed that 15% of Estonian women surveyed have not heard of any organisation providing assistance to victims of violence. Those who were familiar mostly knew women's shelters, much less victim support and women's helpline. There is no proper overview of whether the services currently provided meet the actual needs of the victims. As a result, in the coming years, we will, among other things, look at how to improve assistance for victims. I consider it important to ensure protection against new forms of violence that have emerged rather recently, such as stalking or harassment through modern technology. As early as next year, we hope to stand before the Riigikogu with amendments to the Penal Code in order to ensure more effective protection against harassment and persecution for the victim. Thirdly, successful resolution of cases of violence often requires cooperation between different authorities and a joint response to violence. Last year, the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior and with the police, victim support and support centres for women, started setting up county networks for domestic violence. This year, the Social Insurance Board will continue to work on the new network, and by the end of the year such initiative groups will be established and trained in every county. For very serious cases, the Ministry of the Interior is developing a case-by-case network work model. Thus, in the future, there should be a significant reduction in the possibility that some complex cases of violence will remain outside the scope of the various authorities and the victim will not receive any assistance. Fourthly, the attitudes and patterns of behaviour of the other party, the perpetrators, must also be addressed. The treatment of perpetrators must take into account that there is no single solution that works for everyone. Programmes, advice and other forms of intervention must be introduced, both inside and outside the prison system. The process of drawing up the strategy clearly showed that we must jointly argue where the line runs between a reasonable penalty and the necessary treatment or other intervention. However, the aim is the same for all options, namely to stop the cycle of violence. In parallel with changing the attitude of perpetrators, we need to change the attitude of professionals in society towards punishment and its alternatives. Finally, I will briefly mention a few other activities that will bring about major changes in the near future. In the near future, we will probably be most affected by the transposition of the Victims' Directive, which will bring about changes in work practice, both within the administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Justice and Social Affairs. The organisation of a system for the treatment of juvenile offenders has also been underway, with high expectations from the Ministry of Justice, Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and Education and Research. A few words about the strategy and further plans. I think this plan is a good example of how to avoid decisions born in silence in the cabinet and successfully involve people from different walks of life to those who assist victims of violence, investigate violent crimes or who engage in violent activities. There were more than 40 co-thinkers from different areas and their contributions were high and very relevant. I would like to point out here that the total planned cost of implementing the strategy between 2015 and 2020 is close to EUR 14 million. I believe that we will get a good result at relatively low cost. Of course, simply by approving the strategy, the work cannot be considered to have been done. On the contrary, work is just beginning. An implementation plan for the strategy for 2015-2018 has been drawn up, but it is complemented by one year each year. Sectoral networks have been set up to involve experts and practitioners. They will meet at least two or three times a year to discuss issues in the field that need to be resolved. By the way, anyone who is interested in joining the network can join it and is welcome. You, honourable members of the Riigikogu, can join the network. I would like to thank all the NGOs and officials who have contributed to the strategy. There have been both engaging debates and serious disputes during this process, which resulted in the completion of a strategy that I am presenting to you today with a strong feeling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U194	Thank you very much. There's a question for you too. Please, Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U195	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, Once again, I congratulate the Minister of Justice and the Ministry for their serious work and I ask whether you can explain in a few words the future of the coming years, if you have an overview. The cost of this programme, as you mentioned, is 14 million. What are more precise plans to ensure more long-term funding for women's organisations, or the third sector? These organisations are known to be good partners in the country. From the budget negotiations, we remember that the funding of the support centres was at one point a little bit out of the question. The problem has been solved by now, but what are the plans for the future? Just maybe a word for an overview.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U196	Yes, it is actually one of the most important expenditures needed from the state budget to implement the strategy to prevent violence. Firstly, it must be very clearly predictable for the centres themselves to have public funding for women's crisis centres. So far, many of the activities of women's crisis centres have been project-based and will certainly continue. A great deal has been helped by the Norwegian State. The Ministry of Justice and our partners know the prices of these services. We need to be able to predict, looking at the indicators of violence in the face, how many people can be helped by women's crisis centres and other shelters next year. It must be taken into account that the more we identify the problem of violence in society, the more victims we need to help. It's not because these victims are getting more in real life, it's just because these people come looking for help with their worries. Another important objective is to ensure the sustainability of hotlines. For example, the same women's support centre's phone 1492 and the victim support line, where people can essentially tell their concerns 24/7 and hear the first encouraging advice that they still have to go to the police and do something about it. If we look at both this strategy to prevent violence and the implementing acts relating to the Istanbul Convention, given that the proportion of female victims is worryingly high in our society, the budgetary allocations must be implemented with the aim of ensuring the uninterrupted functioning of women's asylums and relief lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U197	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt. I would like to ask for a co-report from the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Neeme Suur.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U198	Madam President, please. Ladies and gentlemen, After such an in-depth review by the Minister of Justice, I am not trying to show you the content. I will do what is the role of the representative of the Social Affairs Committee, which is to present the debate that took place in the Commission. A debate took place in the Commission on Tuesday 17 February. We had come to present the strategy for the prevention of violence by Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt, Minister Advisor Andri Maimets, Head of the Analysis Department of the Criminal Policy Department, Jako Salla, and Adviser to the same department, Kaire Tamm. The Minister took stock of the strategy. We learned that the strategy deals with violence between children, child abuse, family violence, including violence against women, close-up violence, sexual violence and human trafficking. Measures are proposed to prevent violence, protect victims and address the consequences of violence. It was noted that various ministries, research institutions, representative local government organisations and representatives of NGOs were involved in the development of the strategy. The representatives of the Ministry of Justice also answered questions to be specified by the members of the Commission. Our main focus of the debate was on the position of violence against women in this document. We have received a quite comprehensive overview and an answer to our question of the extent to which the document reflects the fight against violence against women. It was explained to us that, in fact, violence against women is one of the most common forms of violence that occurs in the context of domestic violence, close relationship violence, sexual violence and human trafficking. Consequently, a large part of the strategy's actions, as well as the evaluation criteria, are linked precisely to the fight against violence against women. We also touched on issues related to violence against children, talked about relations between law enforcement bodies and the population, i.e. how often cases of violence are not reported, how to build trust in national bodies, support structures and local authorities, and how to increase the number of information activities. We also touched on a subject such as the conciliation procedure. As stated in the Commission's meeting, we have a conciliation procedure that has just become centred on domestic violence, but that should not be the case. In the case of domestic violence, conciliation is, in a sense, problematic and the conciliation procedure should take account, in particular, of areas relating to violence between young people and children. There is still much room for improvement in this area in the conciliation process; there are still many ways to reduce violence. Finally, we also touched on the places where the strategy was to be implemented. A large part of the strategy's guidelines will be implemented at local level, in cooperation with local authorities. We wondered whether some part of this EUR 14 million had been accounted for as expenditure on local government budgets, and we learned that this was not the case. This amount, EUR 14 million, is directly the State's contribution to the development of the sector, and local authorities are expected, in particular, to continue to do well in the actions they are still doing. Local government officials and partners are trained, campaigned with them, targeted at information programmes. So the work of local authorities can certainly be made more efficient, but it is not expected that they will spend much more on it. No direct proposals were made by the Commission to complement the strategy. On 10 February, procedural decisions had already been adopted: to conduct the strategy discussion at the plenary session of the Riigikogu on this day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U199	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Our debate on the 34th item is exhausted. We took note of this strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U200	Next, we will hear the report on the implementation of the 'Estonian Security Policy towards 2015' in 2014. For a presentation, please, Minister of the Interior of the Chair Hanno Pevkur! For information, the report of the Minister of the Interior lasts up to 30 minutes, each member of the Riigikogu can ask him an oral question and subsequent negotiations. Please, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U201	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am trying to make much shorter than 30 minutes, which does not mean that security policy cannot be discussed for a long time, but a concentrated summary of last year is certainly reasonable. When you look at the figures, 89% of the Estonian population think that Estonia is a safe place. This is the average level in Europe and places us among the developed countries. There is still a very high level of trust in law enforcement authorities. The three most trusted state institutions in Estonia are the Rescue Board, of whom 96% of respondents said we trust, the Alert Centre • and the Police and Border Guard Board with 86% of the respondents. Now to the main lines of security policy. Seven years ago, the main orientations of security policy until 2015 were established, and the aim has been to make Estonia a safer place for all our residents. Next, I will try to give a very concentrated overview of what was done last year to increase security. Let's start with law enforcement. In this area, the reform carried out by the police is probably the most relevant and important issue for the people of Estonia, the changes of which entered into force on 1 October last year. The central objective of the amendments was to review the work of regional constables and local police leaders. As a result of this review, the provision of police services can be much more decided at regional level on the ground, taking into account the specific characteristics of the region and the needs of the community. Another very important change last year was the entry into force of the new Law Enforcement Act, which significantly broadens the concept of public order and imposes responsibility for ensuring public order for all of us. While, according to the usual understanding, public policy is limited to meeting the requirement to behave in a public place, the new law on law enforcement deals more broadly with public order. This concerns all living spheres and individual and collective legal benefits. I very much hope that, although the first amendments to the law on law enforcement have already been made, the period of its implementation will give us the assurance that this was the right and necessary legal order to change. The Ministry of the Interior also developed a draft law amending the Act on Assistant Police Officer, which was in the Riigikogu at third reading today. This amendment will make it easier to become an assistant police officer and involve help police officers in prevention. This gives everyone the opportunity to contribute voluntarily to Estonia's security, because an assistant police officer does not necessarily have to patrol the street; he also plays a very important role in prevention. Secondly, I am talking about internal security. The conflict in Ukraine has also brought about changes in Estonia's internal security field. Last year, in cooperation with other ministries, the models for resolving the crisis were improved and worked to improve Estonia's resilience. Several exercises of crisis took place last year and are planned to be organised this year as well. Emergency plans were also reviewed and adjusted where necessary. But, of course, this work is also ongoing, and this year it is planned to bring the new emergency law to Parliament's table. Last year, we know that broad-based defence principles were adopted, which, in addition to military action, also put in place coordination between internal security and other areas, such as health, economic and defence cooperation plans and investments. Thirdly, I will briefly talk about migration and citizenship. Thanks to the amendments to the Aliens Act that enter into force, foreigners can work at the same time with several employers and, after the end of their residence permit, they can stay in Estonia for another three months and apply for a residence permit on a new basis. The transitional period for foreign students, researchers and lecturers who graduated from a higher education institution in Estonia is even longer, more specifically six months. We also had the opportunity to develop an adaptation programme for new immigrants, which will help these people to integrate better into Estonian society and everyday life. The changes to the Citizenship Act have been completed, which will make citizenship more flexible since the coming year. For example, from the beginning of next year, children of parents of undefined citizenship will receive Estonian citizenship by naturalisation from the moment of birth. The conditions for obtaining citizenship are also less stringent for applicants over 65 years of age. At the end of last year, we were remembered to be the first country in the world to issue digital identity cards to foreigners. You could say the project's started quite nicely. As of last week, 840 people have already applied for digital identity cards. We've been able to issue 690 documents. By the way, applications have been received from 60 countries: most of course Finland, namely 302 as of last week, 137 from Russia, 49 from Latvia. But as an example of where a digital identity card has been requested, be it New Zealand, Japan and Mexico. A few words about the border guard. Of course, last year's keyword in this area is the setting of the border. The priority of border policy for both last year and subsequent years is undoubtedly the organisation and construction of the land section of the Estonian-Russian control line. It is worth remembering that Estonia is guarding the Schengen external borders for 1,100 kilometres. There's a land border of nearly 350 miles. If you look at how far we have come with our work, by now nearly half of the 135 km of the south-east region has been cleared and we are moving on quite nicely thanks to the State Forest Management Centre. I am very pleased that there is now also a very clear vision of how we will guard the border in the future. But, of course, from now on. What is important here is that border guards are one of the main priorities of the Ministry of the Interior this year and certainly also of the next few years. A little bit in the rescue area. The main direction of the rescue work last year was prevention. A new strategy for the Rescue Board was adopted, according to which we should do everything we can to reach the Nordic level also in terms of accident deaths. But the important thing is to put the emphasis on prevention. A new internal security development plan has also been built on prevention, which we will soon be talking about here. Looking at how many people left their lives on fire last year, there were 54 of them. When examining the reasons for this, 19 of 54 cases were related to careless smoking, 11 cases were due to careless use of open fire. Sixty percent of the victims who left their lives in the fire were missing a smoke detector at home. From the point of view of prevention, it is very important that the Rescue Board continues its activities. As for last year's fire safety supervision, all rescue officers started making home visits. A total of 8,500 homes were visited, where heating and smoke detectors were checked, and people were given advice on how to make their homes more fire-proof. In addition to the checks carried out under fire safety supervision, more than 10,000 homes have been reviewed in Estonia, which hopefully will now be significantly more safe. This year's goal is to visit 15,000 homes. Several important steps were taken to ensure that aid could reach those in need more quickly. Estonia is one of the few countries in Europe who have brought the Alarm Centre and the operatives under one roof, literally. Of course, this is done to provide a better service. For example, the common building of the Alarm Centre and the Rescue Board was completed in Annelinna in Tartu and Lasnamäe in Tallinn. The PSAP last year introduced the GIS-112 geo-information system, which is certainly a very important tool to identify the caller's location faster and to send the closest or fastest donor. All of this was a prerequisite for the planned transition to the common emergency number 112 at the beginning of this year. Since last week, it works, and people can forget about the old number 110 that they could call when the police needed help. Any help, including police, rescuers and ambulances, can now be called to one of the emergency numbers 112. But, of course, we're gonna give everyone a guarantee that number 110 will stay in business. If anyone calls there, the call will be automatically forwarded to 112. But people, like I said, it's important to remember number 112. Finally, I will also talk a little bit about people and assets in the area of internal security. There were quite a lot of investments last year, with a total of EUR 17.1 million in real estate. As I mentioned, the common building of the Rescue Board and the Alarm Centre was completed in Lasnamäe and Annelinna in Tallinn and Annelinna in Tartu, as well as the building of the police station in Keila. Houses on Vormsi Island and Võru, as well as the rescue building on the Häädemeeste, are about to be completed from the common buildings. The construction of the site for the storage of findings and evidence in Narva and the renovation of the Paide detention house and the Piusa cordon is underway. Reconstruction of the Narva border crossing point will continue. We also continued to upgrade the internal security fleet. The average age of inland vehicles decreased by 4.1% over the year and now the average age of the vehicle is 7.4 years. It is worth pointing out that a very important investment was to get the Rescue Board six new ladder cars, which cost EUR 3.3 million and which will be used by the rescuers this year. If you look at the salary figures, we can see that the emphasis was on raising the salaries of the lower-wage operatives. Significant wage increases were possible because the state budget also allocated additional money to internal security payroll funds at an early pace. I also want to thank very much the Police and Border Guard Board, which, in order to organise its structure, directed the resource precisely to the increase in the wages of police officers who assist people. We can now say that the minimum wage in the police has risen from EUR 750 to EUR 975, both in police and border guard services. The document on the main orientations of the security policy adopted seven years ago set out the activities until the end of this year. Last year, we developed a new internal security development plan involving many partners and organisations, bringing together issues related to the design and implementation of internal security policies under a single roof. The aim of the development plan is, inter alia, to implement the principles of the current security policy. I have the opportunity to introduce you to the new development plan very soon from this very remote control. This was the overview of the implementation of the security policy last year. You can read more about the book Estonian Security Policy, which has already reached your tables. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U202	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U203	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. There are quite a number of companies in Ida-Viru County where there are processes related to the chemical industry. I want to ask you how you appreciate the preparation of our rescuers on the one hand and their equipment on the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U204	Mostly, I would like to focus attention on these companies themselves, and prevention is always cheaper than dealing with the consequences when we talk about large companies, not only chemical companies, but also mining companies in Ida-Virumaa, but it is precisely in companies themselves that we need to pay very much attention to safety at work. We know that the Labour Inspectorate has also started a more in-depth inspection of compliance with occupational safety requirements in Eesti Energia. I very much hope that all companies in Ida-Viru County, either in the chemical industry or in the mining industry, will think about this very seriously. I am very pleased that some chemical companies have contributed to their ability to save. If you look at the state services, the chemical defence equipment of the professional commandos of the Rescue Board has improved year after year and can now be assessed for chemical pollution capability. I don't say very good, I say good. Surely this situation can be improved. But first of all, we're going to pay attention to getting new cars by planning the Rescue Board's investments this year. About 80 new cars are planned for rescue this year, half of them are main cars and the rest are divided into tank cars, container cars and universal cars that can be used as both tank cars and container cars.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U205	Any more questions? No further questions. Thank you very much. Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Today's 35th item has been dealt with and the information has been taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U206	The next item is the debate on the 2015-20 civil society agenda. I ask for another presentation of the speech chair by Secretary of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U207	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! In 2002, the concept of the development of Estonian civil society was approved in this very hall, and the Government of the Republic has in turn approved the civil society development plans concerning specific periods of time as framework documents. The draft civil society development plan that is currently before you concerns the years 2015 to 2020. The Government of the Republic presented it to the Riigikogu for discussion in January, and I am very grateful to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which made a number of comments, which have already been incorporated into the text. These comments will hopefully be discussed at length by the chairman of the committee. After today's discussion here in the Riigikogu's plenary session, the draft development plan will be approved by the Government of the Republic. The development plan was born in cooperation with a large number of NGOs, public authorities, experts and other interested parties. A total of around 300 people and organisations participated in the discussions that took place last year. Thus, the development plan is a kind of agreement with NGOs, which the government plans to do in order to contribute to the development of civil society. Although this plan does not offer all the solutions necessary for the development of civil society, we have come to a reasonable compromise, taking into account the possibilities, which activities are important in order to shape a more inclusive society in Estonia. As regards Estonian civil society, it can be said in general that it has developed strongly. This is also characteristic of other Central and Eastern European countries. However, it is good cooperation and a legislative environment that can be highlighted when compared with other countries. Similarly, we have a strong support system and positive media coverage. However, there is still a need to place a great deal of emphasis on making civil society organisations more operational and economically capable. More attention should also be paid to the participation of civil society organisations in policy-making, their involvement, social entrepreneurship and social innovation, and the development of the potential of civil society organisations as public service providers. The capacity of civil society organisations to mobilise the necessary resources for their activities, as well as the development of a support structure for the protection of their interests, is of no less importance. Compared to previous development plans, this time we have chosen a clearer focus and focused on less and more concrete but most important activities. Consequently, the new development plan has two priorities instead of the previous five: firstly, participation and secondly, the impact of civil society organisations on preventing and solving societal problems. The other areas will support civil society as a support structure, i.e. provide the means and prerequisites for its development. The general objective of the development plan is more operational civil society organisations and socially active citizens. The development plan also has three sub-objectives, but it should be stressed that two of them are equally important, while the third one contributes to achieving the first two. Let these three sub-objectives also be mentioned. Sub-objective No 1 is worded as follows: Participation of civil society organisations in policy-making is natural and valued in society. For this purpose, it is important to focus on cross-sectoral and cross-sectoral cooperation, as well as cooperation between public authorities and civil society and civil society organisations themselves is a prerequisite for well-designed decisions. It is also important to stress that, although the sub-target does not intend to deal directly with individuals but primarily with civil society organisations, the level of the individual is also covered. No civil society association can exist without the people involved in their activities. Sub-objective 2: The impact of civil society organisations on preventing and solving societal challenges and improving people's well-being has increased with the provision of social innovation, social entrepreneurship and public services. In order to achieve this objective, it is essential that the services provided by civil society organisations are customer-centred, high-quality, resource-efficient and innovative. For this reason, the sub-target indicators will also focus on these three issues. The role of Sub-Objective 3 in the development plan is to ensure that there are capable civil society organisations in Estonia who have sufficient resources to develop and operate effectively. This objective supports the achievement of the first two objectives, as inefficient civil society organisations do not contribute to synergy, which must improve the quality of life of Estonian people. Here I will mention three examples of activities which are important for the development of civil society and which will certainly continue in the next period. Firstly, the activities of the Civil Society Foundation. The Foundation for Civil Society has proven to be a strong source of funding for civil society and has confirmed it as a 'competent centre'. Secondly, consultation of civil society organisations in the counties. This is one of the activities that has helped to make Estonian civil society stronger when it comes to Central and Eastern European countries. Thirdly, the development of a legal environment conducive to civil society and the recognition of volunteers and their inclusive civil society organisations. Of the more significant activities that civil society organisations will also consider important in the coming years, I will also highlight three. Firstly, testing novel forms of cooperation and methods of participation to contribute to well thought-out and high-quality decision-making. Secondly, increasing the capacity of civil society organisations so that they can and can provide public services where necessary. We are not saying that civil society organisations must provide public services, but this is one way of helping to ensure that public services are of high quality and meet the needs of the target group. Thirdly, to become clear about the term social entrepreneurship, in order to contribute to the desire of civil society organisations to earn their own profits and less dependent on public money. As regards the costs involved in implementing the development plan, the implementation of the activities of the new development plan will cost around EUR 1.6 million this year. The Civil Society Foundation has a budget of €1.3 million. EUR 160000 is foreseen for the second half of the year to support the activities of the civil society foundation and the consultants of the regional development centres and EUR 130000 from the Ministry of Internal Affairs budget to support the activities of the country's strategic contract partners. The planned amount for the implementation of the activities of the development plan is expected to increase every year for the years 2016 to 2018, which would mean that if the state budget allowed, the budget for the implementation of the development plan would increase by more than EUR 2.1 million by 2018. The topic of funding will continue to be one of the development plans for specific activities, which is the implementation of the principles of the Community Financing Guide. This guide helps funders of civil society organisations to make their funding process transparent, accessible and effective for all. The aim is to gain greater confidence that every euro that is issued to support civil society organisations really goes to what it is most necessary for. Before I finish, I would also like to say that I am very pleased that we received the framework agreements concluded at the beginning of this year with our support partners for a very long time, both in the field of voluntary rescue, helping police officers, the Estonian Neighborhood Watch, the Estonian Association of Non-profit Associations and Foundations, the Estonian Council of Churches and the repressed fund. This long-term presence of support partners gives certainty to the state, on the one hand, and to NGOs and umbrella organisations, on the other hand, that their activities are necessary and that the state supports it as an umbrella organisation in order to develop these areas. I hope that the members of the Riigikogu will also give feedback on issues related to the development of civil society during today's debate. I note that all members of the Riigikogu will certainly be able to contribute to the development of civil society by thinking, for example, about how the activities of political parties and civil society organisations are involved and how the Riigikogu can contribute to the transparency of the decisions taken and the views of all parties concerned have been considered. However, as I have already said, I would like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has made a substantial contribution to the text of this development plan, which the Government of the Republic will hopefully endorse tomorrow or next Thursday. That's all for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U208	Any questions for the Minister? There are no questions. Thank you, Minister Hanno Pevkur. I would like to ask for a co-presentation by Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U209	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to § 156 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, the action plan or development plan submitted by the Government of the Republic must be reviewed by the commission and will be placed on the agenda of the Riigikogu plenary on the proposal of the leading committee. The Steering Committee, in this case the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, discussed the civil society development plan for the period from 2015 to 20.20, which was approved by the Government of the Republic on 22 January this year, at its two meetings on the first time on 26 January and on the second time on 9 February. At the first session, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered it necessary to make some improvements to the development plan concerning the treatment of political parties in the development plan. The point was that the original version did not deal with political parties as part of civil society. We did not think it was right that this would have been an artificial confrontation between political parties and civil society, although political parties are a form of manifestation of civil society. The second point, and this is a more important issue, was the creation of a database of civil society organisations receiving public funding. Since about one third of civil society organisations are also using public money, it would be right to have an appropriate database so that the use of this public money is as transparent and verifiable as it is in other areas of public life. The Constitutional Committee also expressed doubts as to whether the closing Riigikogu could approve this development plan or whether it would be more appropriate to leave it to the next composition. However, the Ministry of the Interior made the necessary improvements as a matter of urgency and asked for the development plan to be re-tabled on the agenda of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and for the development plan to be approved. The association of non-profit organisations and foundations representing civil society, whose leader, Mr Jõgeva, expressed this view at the Commission meeting, was of the same opinion. The Ministry of Internal Affairs found that it is important for the development of civil society if the development plan process comes to an end during the current Riigikogu, otherwise the start of activities would be delayed. This would lead, for example, to the lack of a strategic basis for the Foundation's Civil Society Foundation (CSA) to plan, prepare and carry out calls for proposals. This is also important because the EESC supports about one hundred civil society organisations and projects submitted by them every year. At its meeting on 9 February, the Commission stated that the comments made had been taken into account, and since the parties themselves wished to move forward, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, after some reservations, agreed to this and decided to refer the agenda to the plenary by 18 February and to appoint a speaker as rapporteur. I do not need to begin my task of describing or commenting on the importance of civil society in a democratic country, all of which is thoroughly, thoughtfully and well-argued in the development plan itself. All I am saying is that one country is as strong as a strong, organised and accountable citizen of that country. I wish civil society as a whole every success in implementing the development plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U210	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Let's go to the negotiations. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Maimu Berg.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U211	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The great interest our fellow Members have in civil society today is clearly visible in this Chamber. Civil society may be interested in other citizens, but citizens who are fortunate to be members of the Riigikogu do not seem to be particularly concerned. At the same time, it is extremely nice that there are also those in the Riigikogu who have been very active in this matter, thanks to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs! And it is also time to take civil society issues very seriously. It's a good thing this development plan has been completed. I would say that people are afraid of politics and often afraid to participate in the civil society movement. They say it's all so complicated, we don't understand it, these terms, these legal hooks, they don't want to interfere, I'd rather stay away. Yes, of course, there is a great deal of difficulty in politics, is what requires special education, which requires knowledge that requires knowledge of erudition and many things. But politics is also very everyday, and I would say ordinary. In my opinion, politics is also about me rumbling along the pierced streets of downtown Tallinn and feeling that someone has failed to do my job, or that when I slip on ice-covered puddles, and again I feel the same way that someone has failed to do their job. We really have to make sure that we give people back to the country, people have to feel that if they want something or they expect something from the country, the state will listen to them, because they are the forces in that country. Yesterday there was an extraordinary meeting of the Tallinn City Centre Administrative Council. The Administrative Board is a kind of buffer between civil society and senior bodies. The debate was on the question of the district manager in the city centre, namely that it is alleged that there has been corruption because the money in the city centre has gone to Valga for an election campaign. The members of the administrative council were present by the quorum, but they were not the district manager of the city centre. I mean, you can whistle on an administrative body, you can whistle on the whole of civil society. That is why it is especially good for us to give people courage and confidence through such development plans. If they read this plan, get acquainted with it, get up to date with the activities of the KÜSK and can be sure that they will also receive financial support, they will feel that they really do exist, that they can speak, that they have something to say and that they will be heard. I don't want to go into any kind of pulpit here, it's being done too much, I think, and that's the kind of ordinary person I've heard relatively rarely about this remote control. I will try to remain human this time because we are talking about civil society, about people. It is good that such a thing comes about that this development plan has been designed, that people who really know it have worked hard on it. All we can expect is for all of this to be implemented. It is a good thing that people who may have lacked courage so far are encouraged. The success of this development plan requires that people be active, courageous, smart. So we wish our people every success in building civil society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U212	Thank you very much. I'm asking for a speech chair in Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U213	Thank you very much. Good listeners! Dear Minister, I have for some time represented the Riigikogu and my party's SA Foundation for Civil Society, or the CFEL Council. I am convinced that this connection is necessary and is operational. I share the view that, thanks to the call for proposals of the EESC, the sustainability of the national umbrella organisations and networks of civil society organisations has increased. They have contributed to the negotiations on the conditions for structural support for the European Union. They have been gratefully involved with volunteers in their work, and the share of donations has increased. I support the direction of the new development plan in moving from consultation to participation and cooperation. Therefore, inclusion will be seen as one method of implementing the action plans and not as a separate objective. It has already proven to be a source of funding for local civil society; it also works to advise civil society organisations in county development centres. It makes sense to move towards a more systematic, programmed approach. This will enable better results to be achieved than individual operations. At this point, I will bring to you some of the topics and decisions of the last meeting of the Committee's Council so far. For example, we unanimously supported the NGO Kodukant project 'Maapäev', the NGO Civitas project 'Citizen's Initiative creates society' and the SOS Children's Village project, which contains the organisation of a conference 'Help the child from thoughts to actions'. We supported all the applications to the tune of thousands of euros. We also decided on the technical conditions and award criteria for the procurement of the study on the operational capacity of Russian-language NGOs commissioned by the KÜSK and the evaluation committee. In this context, we also considered the possibilities of using the data collected in Estonia in 2014 from the research and development centre of civil society, which has already received support from the UK. The members of the Supervisory Board also took note of changes to the terms of the competition for good ideas. We were given the idea that, in order to submit more large and effective projects to the competition, a "support" or "incubation" system should be created for ideas coming to the competition with the help of some partners. The Council unanimously endorsed the financial plan, the action plan and the results for the year that the EESC started, with only a few minor changes. I also consider it important that the CFEL prepares a plan to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia. In the near future, an idea bank will be opened for ideas to be implemented in the framework of this preparatory work, and the EESC has been invited to organise one or two competitions to support the realisation of the ideas received. These ideas, of course, must fit in with the objectives of theSKA. For my part, I added the idea that, in connection with Estonia becoming the Presidency of the European Union in 2018, it is worth thinking about spreading the good practices of Estonian civil society in other countries of the Union. Thus, thoughts and discussions will continue for the new members of the Riigikogu, who will represent the parliament in the CFEL Council. I wish these people strength and will in advance! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U214	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U215	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! It is a pleasure to note that in Estonia, the civil society's self-consciousness, as well as the understanding and practice of cooperation between the NGO and public authorities based on representative democracy have taken long steps in the last few years. In order for this development to continue, the Reform Party will surely want to further develop the curriculum of social education at all levels of education, but mainly in primary school and upper secondary school. It must be more linked to everyday life practice and implemented not only theoretically, but also in the form of seminars and practical activities. There is certainly a need to revise the curriculum for preparing teachers of social education and to link it better with today's life in Estonia, so that it is not too theoretical or formal either. I am convinced that these steps, once they are done, will further develop the cooperation of representative democracy and participatory democracy in Estonia with long steps. I am convinced of this because, above all, the first steps that have been taken on this path have, in a few short years, taken forward the activity of the civil society and the mutual understanding of civil society and state power at a faster pace than we once dared to hope in preparing for the concept of civil society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U216	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. I would also like to thank the Minister of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior for the initiative and presentation today, as well as, of course, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, its chairman, its members and its staff. The debate on the Civil Society Development Plan has been closed and the 36th agenda item has also been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U217	Let us move on to the 37th item, which is the debate on the Internal Security Development Plan 2015 to 2020. I would like to ask Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of the Interior, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U218	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am honoured to begin my last performance before the composition of the XII Riigikogu on a very important subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U219	In a proper hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U220	Yeah, in a regular session. Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chairman, that's a good point. The Riigikogu has an internal security development plan for the years 2015 to 2020. It should be stressed that this is a document of the Government of the Republic, which deserves the attention of Parliament in our codecision process. Parliament can play a part in guiding the development of internal security. At the end of last year, together with a large number of partners in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, we were able to complete the text of the development plan, which aimed to bring together under one roof the issues related to the design and implementation of internal security policies and to establish even closer cooperation between the various parties. Here I will give a brief overview of the new development plan and what we are planning to do in the field of internal security over the next five to six years. But I'm gonna start a little bit wider, and I'm gonna talk about the definition of security. As we prepare a development plan, we have set ourselves a great goal for the people of Estonia to feel that they live in a free and secure society. In order to create security, we must first define what the security we create is. Security is made up, on the one hand, of a sense of security, or of faith, and of the fact that the state guarantees each one certain values, and, on the other hand, of a personal experience of whether these values are actually guaranteed. Traditionally, security is considered to be the main components of national security and protection from offences, but equally important is belief in economic and social coping and faith in ensuring justice and freedom. For example, a person who loses his or her job is more likely to feel unsafe in society, despite the fact that our streets are enlightened and our overall sense of security is quite well guaranteed. But now the institutions are working together. In order to create security, it is important to ensure interconnectivity between the different sectors and to develop and enable the parties whose main activity is not necessarily directly guaranteeing security but who can contribute to this within the framework of their tasks. This requires the individual contribution of the different areas of government, the private sector, the civil society and everyone. Another very important direction in the new development plan is precisely the involvement of everyone and their contribution to ensuring the security of the community. Two thirds of the Estonian population believe that it should remain the responsibility of the police and professional rescuers to take care of their safety. At the same time, alongside the responsive capacities in the countries we have taken the lead in internal security, we are seeing more and more people's own role and increasing it to ensure security. This resource is largely unused in Estonia. There is also a question of options. We cannot always meet society's expectations and increase the number of policemen and rescuers and buy more technology. It is not always appropriate to increase responsive capacity, because when people are aware of and are able to avoid threats and when they come to the understanding that security is also a matter for everyone, much of the damage can be avoided instead of dealing with the consequences. I am talking in a very concrete and concentrated manner about the design of the development plan. The Internal Security Development Plan focuses on eight important issues. First, safer communities. This means that the state, together with local authorities, will create a reliable and open cooperation model, where everyone understands their role and place in ensuring security and ensures smooth cooperation between public authorities, local authorities, businesses and NGOs. Secondly, in order to ensure effective rescue capabilities, the development of a rescue network will continue, inter alia, by extending marine rescue capabilities through rescue teams. Let it be said here that last year, the fourth rescue command was created with marine rescue capabilities, and this year it is planned to be built for four more seaside commandos. The third major issue is the organisation of stronger and faster assistance. The availability and continuity of the emergency number 112 is essential for creating a sense of security for citizens. Therefore, the development plan still sets out a working direction to ensure that the reception and delivery of emergency calls is rapid and professional. It is certainly important to complete the GIS-112 project on short-term activities. To date, the system is connected to ambulance and rescue capabilities, and during this year, it is hoped that the police resources will also be connected to the system, which means that every member of the Emergency Response Centre will automatically be able to see which ambulance, rescue or police unit is closest to the scene and who is best advised to help. Of course, positioning and further development are also important, depending in particular on the capabilities of mobile operators. The ability of cable operators, or cable network, is already good enough to identify who is in trouble at the same time as receiving a call. Fourthly, crisis prevention and emergency preparedness. Our aim is to deal together with threats and crises, both at national and international level, through prevention, preparedness and operational cooperation. Be mentioned here in this year's major exercise CONEX 2015, which will take place just before the great training of the Defence Forces on "Silver 2015." Fifthly, with regard to the direction of internal security improvement, all factors that may pose a threat to national security will be systematically analysed and possible risks mitigated. It is also a block where the internal security development plan contains an element protected by state secrets. Sixth, a balanced citizenship and migration policy. From an internal security point of view, migration and citizenship have a significant impact on the overall functioning of society, and it is therefore important to address these areas in a holistic and knowledge-based manner. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Parliament has adopted legislative amendments allowing the creation of a PNR system for air passengers in Estonia. We are also going much more knowledge-based this year with the topic of the Migration Research Centre. Seventhly, with regard to reliable and secure identity management, the aim of the development plan is to create prerequisites for Estonia to have a user-friendly and secure identity management system and to be the world leader in electronic identity management. We can safely claim that we already have a digital identity card and hopefully by 1 April it will be possible to obtain digital identity card, or e-residence, from Estonian embassies around the world. This applies to the so-called one-contact principle, which is certainly unique in the world. The eighth and final direction is more efficient border management. As an external border control officer of the European Union, Estonia stands firm for the protection of the Schengen uniform visa space and for ensuring border control and security of the external borders in accordance with the requirements of the visa space. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Very important work has been done to prepare this development plan. I would like to thank the people and organisations who have contributed to the drafting of this Riigikogu. But, of course, our very great goal is to implement these ambitious plans as well. As the implementation of the development plan is a process of time and the related activities are not stoned, I would like all those who implement it to have a flexible mind and the ability to cope with all the challenges facing us in the field of internal security, according to changing circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U221	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Jaanus Tamkivi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U222	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. My question is about voluntary sea rescue. This area is very rapidly evolving and more men are coming to work on it, to be prepared daily. In Saaremaal, voluntary marine rescue groups or points are created throughout the island; men can perform such daily activities. But how can they still acquire all this technology, all this special equipment, which is very expensive? What assistance can the state provide here and how can this issue be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U223	As I said in my review of security policy, it is very important for us that our strategic partners develop with us different thematic areas. The Voluntary Marine Rescue Association, or Estonian Voluntary Marine and Lake Rescue, is certainly a very good partner for the Ministry in this work. When concluding a long agreement with them, it was also said that the umbrella organisation would receive basic funding to train members of maritime rescue associations and find ways to develop the organisation. As far as financing of the reacting units is concerned, I very much hope that, like the Rescue Board, the Police and Border Guard Board will have very clear and firm principles that we have already talked about. There must be bounty-based or cost-based financing, including a certain investment component. But it is clear that in the case of voluntary rescuers, including marine rescuers, we cannot talk about the possibility of acquiring the entire inventory being guaranteed by the State. This capacity will certainly not be created by the state. Above all, we are trying to man and equip professional commandos and, of course, to ensure the marine rescue capabilities of the Police and Border Guard Board, but in the case of volunteers, our primary objective is that the umbrella organisations have a basic agreement. In deciding on permanent funding, including for voluntary marine rescuers, we got very far at the end of last year. It has been clearly understood that such basic funding is necessary, even in order to bring the watercraft under the shed somewhere during the winter period, to cover the wind, rain and snow. Such basic funding should also come to maritime rescue companies. Hopefully, this will help to move forward step by step, so it is really possible to say one day that investment capacity will develop.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U224	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U225	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I have this question: how do you comment on the sentence that has been included in the development plan and concerns the rescue capabilities of the rescue commandos? It says that our goal is to do more with less. What could that mean? Are we expecting the same wave of layoffs as the police?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U226	Now you've got things very wrong. The aim of doing more with less means, above all, contributing to prevention. In previous years, the professional rescuers did not go so massively to people's homes, only a few visits. Last year, 10,000 home visits took place in the framework of a fire safety inspection, and this year we have planned 15,000. The preventive work of the Rescue Board means that we may have spent a little bit more fuel to drive people into their homes, but we have won a lot more with it: a huge cost has been lost because smoke detectors have been installed, houses have not gone on fire, human lives and property have been spared. I hope that this gave you an overview of how more can be achieved with less. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I understand there are no more questions. I would like to thank you for having had the honour of standing before the XII Riigikogu as three different ministers. There has been a very pleasant cooperation. Thank you. A successful election for all of you! Congratulations! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U227	Dear former Minister for Social Affairs, former Minister for Justice and current Minister for the Interior, we thank you very much for this effective cooperation. But now we are going firmly forward, I would like the Chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by the Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee, Neeme Suur!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U228	Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, We discussed the Internal Security Development Plan in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 16 February. Before that, we had also met and had already taken procedural decisions to ensure that this plan could come to the debate at the plenary session of the Riigikogu today. A substantive debate took place on 16 February. The development plan had been presented by Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, Madis Timpson, Chancellor Leif Kalev, and Raivo Küüt, Deputy Chancellor of Law and Migration Policy, from the Ministry of the Interior. The representatives of the Ministry led by the Minister gave us a thorough overview of the internal security development plan and this was followed by a discussion. Questions were answered. For example, the substantive differences between the main security policy directions and the internal security development plan were explained, the level of security in Estonia compared to other countries of the European Union was discussed, how the resources needed for cooperation between the state and local governments are guaranteed and what the number of constables should be. There was also talk of providing rescue capabilities on land and inland waterways, and answers were received to questions concerning marine and flight rescue capabilities, a secure identity and more efficient border management. If I go to specific concerns now, I will start with the concern of Commissioner Valdo Randpere that the overall objective of the development plan has been formulated in a way that is difficult to understand. The letter states that the overall objective of the Internal Security Development Plan is to ensure that Estonian people feel that they live in a free and secure society, where everyone's value and involvement and contribution to the security of the community create a safer country in Europe. We had a discussion about what it means when everyone's value, involvement and contribution create a safer country in Europe. Does this mean a safer country than at present, a safer country than any other country in the European Union, the safest, or safest, country? It is therefore also proposed that the wording of the general objective could be revised again before the Government of the Republic finally endorses this document. But it was kind of a editorial note. In essence, we discussed Kalle Laanet's proposal to include in the main challenges of the development plan a section on changing attitudes in organisations that ensure internal security, i.e. the development of an internal culture of organisations. This area is currently excluded from the development plan and the Commission was of the opinion that such a point could be included in the list and with it the relevant measures. We also talked about how there is contact between citizens and security authorities and how enhanced PSAPs could operate. We were happy to see that the development plan provided for a further gradual increase in the number of constables. In general, we proposed a re-examination of the points of contact between citizens and security authorities, and an addition to the chapters in the development plan. We also talked about how the development plan would be implemented. There was just one point in attention: if the development plan states that local authorities are to employ special security officials, they should probably also be provided with budgetary resources for this purpose. We stressed that the chapter on the implementation of the development plan must be carefully considered and, if necessary, supplemented. If the implementation of the development plan requires the conclusion of agreements or contracts with representative local government organisations, they must also be concluded in the implementation chapter. Such concrete proposals will then be made by the Commission. First, they concerned changing the institutions' internal attitudes, i.e. developing the institution's culture, but further implementing the development plan, partnership and local authorities' involvement in everything, as well as reviewing the text of the overall objective of the development plan. The Commission did not have any concrete proposals on the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U229	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? It's what you want. I open negotiations and ask the Riigikogu to speak to Mikhail Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U230	Mr President! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Internal security and ensuring it is a very important issue in Estonia. In a protected society, people feel well and stable, nervousness decreases, and people can focus on their core activities. The new development plan places considerable emphasis on disaster prevention and on the development of caring behaviour. But we can't count on it. No smoke detector will replace the savior if the situation needs to be contained. The important thing is that we have a functioning police and border guard system. People need to be 100 percent sure that when they call the emergency number, they will receive help as soon as possible. We can't be sure of that right now. The development plan points out that the number of employees of the Police and Border Guard Board decreased by 19% between 2006 and 2012. The Rescue Board has made 12% of its employees redundant. The question arises as to how internal security can be improved if we reduce the number of people. Who should ensure our safety? We'll take the saviors. We are now in a situation where the number of rescuers has fallen below the optimal limit. But the whole game is supposedly about raising the wages of the existing rescuers. However, the Saviors have been intimidated because they have been raised in the past, but a number of bonuses have been abolished, which has meant that the result of the salary increase has not reached the bank account. The Rescue Board promised that all employees of the Rescue Board will raise wages by at least 2% this year. Nice! However, I have received an extract from the bank account of one of the rescuers working in the Tallinn Rescue Command, by which it could be established by simple calculations that his January salary increased by 0.032% over the year. If we round this number, we're going to get a round 0. The rescuers also fear that their ranks will be thinned and the rescue commandos will be shut down even more. The question arises as to how people can feel secure in such a situation. Do you have to rely on a smoke detector or quit smoking? If, in the coming years, the goal of saving is to do more with less, what are we even talking about? Or we could reorganize the police. Since October, more than 200 police officers have lost their jobs, most of whom were in driving positions, but the so-called reform did not leave the lines of police constables open. People are already wondering if it is really possible to make more redundancies in the police. Isn't their number too low already? If the wages of the police are low, should we not find extra money from the budget instead of increasing the payroll at the cost of the redundancies of other policemen? At the same time, the Ministry of the Interior is increasing the number of employees, which shows that the talk of austerity and redistribution of funds is not very serious. In conclusion, the development plan drawn up does not inspire much confidence that internal security, which has not even been objectively mapped, could be significantly improved. We improve, we ensure, we strengthen these are the keywords that look back on the development plan. In reality, we see low wages, reduced workers to the last limit and ageing techniques. I honestly cannot imagine what surprises we must be prepared for in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U231	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. At the same time, I would like to thank the Minister of the Interior, the Chairman of the Ministry of the Interior, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the other members of the committee, as well as all the members of the Riigikogu who have helped prepare the debate on this important point, the Internal Security Development Plan 2015 Our 37th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U232	Let's move on to item 38. I hope everyone involved is ready. This is the second reading of the draft law amending the Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and in this connection the other laws. While we have on the agenda that the rapporteur is Mr Erki Nool, Vice-President of the Committee on the Environment, the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment has sent me a letter saying that he himself, the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, is a rapporteur on this agenda. So please ask Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Environment Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U233	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On 1 December 2014, the Government of the Republic initiated a draft Act amending the Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act and other laws in this respect. The first reading was closed on 17 December and the deadline for submitting amendments was 6 January 2015 at 4 a.m. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees; the Committee on the Environment itself finalised nine Commission amendments. Representatives of both the Tallinn Environmental Board and the Association of Rural Municipalities participated in the discussion in the Commission on 19 January 2015. At its meeting on 9 February and 16 February, the presentation of the Commission's amendments was discussed. All Commission meetings on the draft have been attended and explained by representatives of the Ministry of the Environment. At its meeting on 9 February, the Committee on the Environment decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for second reading, to propose that the second reading be stopped and, if the second reading of the draft is completed, to refer it to the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U234	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. I'm sorry, there's a question. Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U235	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Can you shed some light on what the Commission was talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U236	The Commission finalised nine Commission proposals, shared on all tables and well monitored numerically: starting with No 1 and completed with No 9. No proposals were received from political groups or other parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U237	Thank you! No further questions, you can leave. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let us begin the examination of the amendments. Nine amendments to the draft 800 have been received from the commission: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9. The amendments have been examined. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. The second reading is closed and the 38th item has also been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U238	Let's move on to item 39. This is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Advertising Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Kristen Michal, member of the Economic Affairs Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U239	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! At least it's plural. Draft amendment to the Advertising Act 780 was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 17 November and its first reading took place on 17 December. One amendment came from a member of the Riigikogu, Kalev Kallemetsa, by the deadline for submitting amendments. The draft received many opinions from operators in the sector and from broadcasters. I will give a brief overview of the procedure for the verbatim report, because there are not too many interested people in the Chamber. In addition to the Commission's discussions, the working group of the Economic Commission met on two occasions. On 15 January, we met representatives of the initiator, reviewed the opinions and proposals received and discussed the law more generally. The second working group meeting took place in s. On 4 February 2004 it aimed to hear the representatives of the interest groups addressing the Commission. The main points of discussion were the relevance, proportionality and impact of regulation on competition among consumer credit providers. It was specifically pointed out that the subsequent monitoring in the area of advertising has not been effective so far, since the dispute is mostly about the advertising campaign that has already ended, while at the same time the following advertising is already being made public, which also does not meet the requirements. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications was therefore asked to prepare the draft amendment for consideration by the Commission, according to which financial services adverts should be coordinated with the Consumer Protection Board in order to prevent inappropriate adverts from being broadcast. In advance, this proposal received the support of the Commission and is among the proposals for improvement today. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft before sending it to second reading. a meeting on 9 and 17 February. On 9 February, we took stock of the procedure, discussed improvements, suggestions and ideas that had come with letters from market participants, and also why this draft has remained so close. On 17 February, we discussed with representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and with the initiators of the draft, the latest letters received. The originator's representatives said that the arguments set out in the letters were not such as to necessitate amendment of the draft, they did not support the proposals made and were not included in the list of amendments. The Commission also discussed the date of entry into force of the draft. However, it was considered that since the draft had considerable economic impact, in addition to having several dates of entry into force at different stages, in terms of legal clarity and in order for everyone to be able to make the necessary adjustments to their activities, it would be reasonable to set 1 January 2016 as the date of entry into force of the entire draft as a law. In this context, we also excluded the transitional period provided for in the draft, because the later date of entry into force will remove the need for it. This proposal was also supported by the Commission, with 7 votes against and 3 abstentions. The representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications also considered this point acceptable. Now a word on the draft procedure before I finally get a brief overview of the procedural decisions. I will say right away that these are the individual observations and convictions that I, as a member of the working group and a member of the Commission, have expressed as much as I have done in the Commission. Firstly, in my opinion, this bill and its success cannot in any way be regarded as worthy of the special prize of good regulation. I did not have the conviction that the restrictions laid down in this draft would be fully and thoroughly considered, not to mention its effects, along with other drafts of the same package. It is a reminder that the two drafts, which are part of the government's SMS loan limitation package, have been examined today. Not to mention that there seemed to be a lack of discussions. I wouldn't even point so much fingers at the draft preparers, I realize it's gotten a little busy in time. The draft, which is not actually long, just over the page, says that certain advertisements are not allowed on radio and television. The objective is understandable, it has been formulated in the same way by two governments, but the introduction of restrictions must always be carefully considered. In order to make it figurative, we ban the SMS loan, but the provision of leasing, mortgage, credit card, trademark and sponsoring information remains acceptable. For example, everyone's favorite love film can be consistently supported by OÜ Malle Honest Loans, along with the text that he gives a loan. Or advertise your leasing, if such a product is, for which experts in the working group thought that this product would come about immediately. As you can see, after a three-hour debate in the working group on the draft that arrived here, we learned more about how to circumvent it if you wish. Sneaking by is when the purpose of the law is not reasonably discussed with market participants and broadcasters, so that everyone can understand in the same way what the boundaries agreed upon in society are going to be. At the same time, the broadcasters themselves have told us that they understand that there is nothing in the advert where the child's voice says that Daddy, buy me a sled, and Daddy's voice answers that a child, we take a SMS loan for it, does not really make society better. They had checked all the ads before Christmas so we wouldn't have to hear or see similar things again. So that's what our media makers should be commended for. You could say that there is a first pattern of self-regulation. With this law, it may happen that the effect is quite different when it is planned to do the law, and it would not be worthy of good regulation or a good result. More thorough preparation usually eliminates such problems. Secondly, the draft has considerable economic impact. It certainly has a financial impact on the incomes of Estonian TV and radio stations, there are estimates that up to a decade of advertising revenue. If something has such an impact, it must be thoroughly discussed and given time. In the Commission, we found that if the entry into force is at the beginning of the next financial year, it will give everyone the opportunity to set their plans, then it will be nine or ten months. Third, implementation of the law. This law is, in fact, part of a larger plan, which includes the supervision of companies active in SMS loans in the Financial Supervision Authority and much more. If such a plan is to be implemented, there must be an interplay between all parts of the plan. As a result of the group's discussions, relations with the initiator, we in the Commission decided that consumer protection should be reviewed before financial advertising. In fact, consumer protection should already deal with all problematic advertising. If we did, we wouldn't do that law here. After all, advertising that is in line with good practice does not raise any questions in practice. One or two too eager borrowers will be able to bribe the entire market. The inclusion of consumer protection is even slightly counterbalanced by the lack of uniform treatment in the advertising market. The initiator, Minister for Economic Affairs, Urve Palo, with whom we discussed the issue, said that his original proposal was that, in the future, this topic of the debate could be treated in the same way as print media and internet advertising. In short, there are actually many questions about this bill and there is almost no time. Mechanisms for implementing the law must also be considered by the new government, and if better solutions are found, there will be sufficient time to turn to the legislator. There's, like, nine or ten months. Even half that's enough if you want to think this through. Now for procedural decisions. The Commission decided to place a draft of 780 on the plenary agenda for second reading by 18 February, to propose the termination of the second reading and, when the second reading is closed, to send the draft to third reading by 19 February with a proposal to put the draft to the final vote. For all decisions, the vote was in favour of 10, against 1. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U240	Thank you. There's a question for you. Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U241	Thank you. Honourable waitress! There is no good feeling about this law, because it is born in a hurry and, as you yourself mentioned, the analysis of the effects is incomplete. Those who want to circumvent the law are likely to find a way to do so, making honest entrepreneurs suffer. Hence the question. We have had a great deal of writing written by market participants, many people and organisations who see here a very important barrier to business freedom and unequal treatment. How do you feel about it, is there a contradiction with the Constitution or with the freedom to conduct a business? Maybe we should take some time off and rethink these arguments before we introduce new regulations again with the big hurrah.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U242	Thank you. As Chairman of the Economic Commission, you know as well as I and everyone in the Chamber that it is no longer possible to take time off on this draft, because this Riigikogu will complete its work. Because of European regulations, we could not have dealt with this draft before today and tomorrow. It wasn't our choice in any way. The government sent the draft to us in this form, setting the deadline for notification on 16 February, which means that we could not discuss it before the 18th and 19th dates. Is there a latch? I think there's definitely a latch. There are certainly questions about uniform treatment in the market, why one of the advertising channels has been chosen, why not the others. This has been explained in the draft itself and in the same way in the explanatory memorandum. Once again, I think that the solution is that the new government will adopt this law either way. I think that, since the Commission set a later date for entry into force, the new government must, in any case, work on the implementation mechanism, and I do not see any other solution. I recall that in another debate on the same package, I think Ken-Mart Vaher went to the remote and said that the subject of SMS loans as a whole must, in any case, be dealt with further. So regardless of what the government is, this is a matter that needs to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U243	Aivar Riisalu, do you really want to ask?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U244	Yeah, I sure do.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U245	Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U246	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I very much liked the courageous position of the Chair of the Economic Commission, Arto Asa. As chairman of the committee, he was of the opinion that such a draft by the government was not a sensible draft, however, that it had been done in haste. Does this give us the hope that in the future, if we have such politicians at the head of the committees, we will really be showing ourselves as a parliament? That if the government brings us a bad thing, then we reject it and do not let it pass in this form? Can I hope that in the future we will be stronger in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U247	Thank you. I think that Parliament has already acted strongly in this regard on previous drafts, which have not deserved it. Now, I say once again, the goal is understandable, the goal has gone through two government treaties. The same plan was in the IRL, which you're wearing today. I don't think we have any disagreements about that. Maybe this particular solution isn't the best one, but maybe it's also unusual for me to say it as a biller. I certainly think that with the chairman of a committee such as Arto Asa, we have a great deal of hope.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U248	Yes, he has also led the Committee on European Union Affairs, so, indeed, he has a wide circle of eyes. Arto Aas, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U249	Thanks for the compliments. More specifically, the issue now concerns restrictions on advertising for SMS loans. After all, the purpose of the law was very noble at the beginning: to put certain restrictions only on SMS loans, to those that are really, in fact, over the curve and very massive. The result of the draft procedure has now been that, in fact, a much wider range of services is regulated, that all kinds of financial services are covered. In itself, lending and credit, leasing is a natural part of the economy. We shouldn't put these things down in any way or show them it's all criminal. The same ex-ante control of adverts that now received the majority of the Commission's support as a proportionate restriction that is now? Allegedly, there are 15,000 pieces of advertising that should be coordinated and controlled by consumer protection for all services per year. Is that reasonable?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U250	Thank you. My personal conviction is that consumer protection in Estonia could be much stronger, regardless of the specific mechanism. I have said this before and, in many debates, thought that consumer protection could also be a little in the administration of the Ministry of Justice, for example. As regards how we came to this coordination or ex-ante control mechanism, the background is the same as I described in the report. The bill we are discussing today says that certain ads are prohibited for television shows. Within three hours, it became quite clear in the task force. The market participants described and these are legitimate market participants, how easy it is, in fact, to circumvent the provisions of this bill. Once again, in my opinion, such laws, which are two-to-one, always put in a difficult position the law-abiding behaviours, let's say, in economic activity, those who want to advertise, or television channels, radio stations that want to sell their ads, which is their normal economic activity. The only way to achieve a level playing field for the whole market is to ensure that the Consumer Protection Board evaluates different financial adverts so that the service leading to the granting of a SMS loan is not disguised. It's been an idea. Whether this is the best solution, I can't say. This is the solution that has been put together now, but I think that this whole area needs a more thorough review.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U251	Question two, Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U252	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I sincerely like the strength of both of you, Arto Asa, and of you to criticise this bill. What saddens me is that you, as a waitress, also claim that this process can no longer be stopped. Can you formulate for me why we should vote in favour of this bill tomorrow if we already know he's not good? Why don't we vote against it tomorrow and get back to work in April? Wouldn't it make sense? What will prevent us from rejecting this bill if, after all, we collectively find that it is not good?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U253	Thank you, Aivar! Maybe I'm unusually straightforward, but I suspect that the voters against this bill will be labeled as helpers of SMS loans in the e-elections starting tomorrow. It could be an obstacle. Sometimes it can be a barrier to good regulation that you cannot explain what the problem is with the law. I think that this law must work in any case. But once again, the objective is formulated in two government agreements; we do not argue about the objective. Work must be done on this solution. So maybe that's a very honest answer to why.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U254	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. They want to open negotiations. As manager, I will do this and open negotiations. The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U255	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I never thought it would be a hot discussion here at the relatively late hour of the last day. But I also have some views on this bill. I have been involved in the draft restrictions on SMS loans that have already been finalised in the Committee on Legal Affairs. The first was about setting an interest charge, the second was about putting the SMS lenders under the control of the Financial Supervision Authority. That's the question I've come up with. If, on the one hand, we have set an interest charge and said that okay, below it can be offered a loan, on the other hand, we are companies that do it, subject to control by the Financial Supervision Authority, and they have to follow certain rules, follow certain practices, and we say okay, then why are we still restricting them? Now we find that these two previous drafts are inadequate and we turn the screws on these companies even more, we put even more restrictions on them. As a representative of the liberal world view, I do not like this idea at all, that we are banning someone from advertising our service, even though we have approved the content of this service ourselves. If we find that the restrictions are inadequate, we will go back to these two previous drafts and then we will start pushing again. As far as the precensorship is concerned, it seems completely incomprehensible to me. This cannot be in line with the principles of a free market economy or any kind of freedom. I don't think that's compatible with the Constitution either. I would rather take the risk of saying that I am in favour of advertising SMS loans than taking the risk of voting in favour of a bill that I think is a complete failure from start to finish. I find so many places there that are completely wrong and contradict my outlook and my understanding as well as that of the lawyer of what the legislative process in Estonia should be. We're talking about prohibitions. We really want to ban things, even though we know that such bans usually lead to jock schemes. We've seen it. Last good example: in Estonia, there is a ban on political outdoor advertising from a certain date before the elections. The Social Democrats found a side road, went and put their ads up in Finland. It's okay. This is the yokk, the Estonian law does not extend Finland. So the same SMS loan advertising can be done on Finnish television, whatever the content, and directed here in Estonia, putting it up online. We're not gonna limit that. This in itself creates an absurd situation where prohibitions lead to people starting to think only about how to circumvent them and, in fact, the whole meaning and content of the law gets ridiculed. By the way, seeing Kalev Lillo standing out there, I'm gonna remember another subject. No one has touched on this draft, nor has anyone touched on a branch of activity like pawnshops. There are no restrictions on them. The mortgage house is actually a materialized SMS loan. That sounded like a very good definition! Because the profits and interest that are earned there are huge, though not directly expressed, as we are measuring them here as interest on consumer credit. We are not restricting this activity to anything at all. To sum up what I have said, I do not have the power from the group to propose that we interrupt the second reading here. But I will be honest with you that I intend to vote against this draft tomorrow in the final vote, and I call on everyone else to do so, too, who thinks that the Riigikogu should not be involved in law-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U256	Thank you. Aivar Riisalu, are you a representative of the IRL in the negotiations? Aivar Riisalu, a good fellow official, I would like to congratulate you, as chairman, on your knowledge of our law on home and working procedures. Indeed, at second reading you do not need to be a representative of a group; here all members of the Riigikogu can negotiate. Please, Aivar Riisalu, you have the floor! You are well aware of the Home and Working Procedures Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U257	Thank you, President-in-Office, Jüri Ratas, Vice-President of the Riigikogu for life! Indeed, over the course of eight years, I have learned that at second reading, the MP can speak freely and on his own behalf. But I like what's going on in this hall, even though it's late. The subject of SMS loans is surrounded by passions and we are trying to influence one of the areas of activity targeted at a slightly weaker target group in society by these regulations. That is what SMS consumers are about. I remember that in my business I often get letters from bailiffs, being an employer for quite a dozen people, and some of them are such regular bailiffs. Whenever a bailiff's letter comes up, I can tell you, by choosing about three names, that this person's SMS loan has been recovered once again. In fact, there have been discussions here today that the subject will have to be dealt with in depth in the future. That's very nice. It's the same interest rate limit that I think we finally realized that it could be about 103%. I guess that's what went into the bill. When we talk about cowboy capitalism and the fact that Estonia has been using large gold chains and people talking with a loud voice to settle economic relations in the last 25 years, especially in the 1990s, it has to be borne in mind that even then, in many cases, the interest rate of the so-called tax administration has been used to solve problems. I know that there are a number of court decisions where one side and the other are trying to make a lot of money on each other's account. Even then, the case law has been based on the so-called "tax office's interest rate, which is 0,15% per day. I argue that the granting of SMS loans as an industry and the same pawnshops that a good colleague named Valdo Randpere spoke about are, in fact, economic sectors at the expense of the weaker people in society, the people who are not able to regulate their economic affairs. In fact, they're kind of predators. It is up to us to protect these people and to teach them to live in such a way that they do not fall victim to such a predatory system. As a result, all measures, ranging from restrictions on the content of borrowing and on the advertising of borrowing to the fact that people are being educated, are good. In general, however, those in work who live relatively active lives are enslaved. I know that the main time to take a SMS loan is the closing time of nightclubs when a man has to prove to a girl that he's capable of ordering a taxi or whatever. In fact, this issue is insanely painful and, as a small country where we almost all know everyone, we could really continue to deal with it in depth. I bow to the representatives of the liberal worldview, Arto Aasa, Kristen Michal and Valdo Randpere, who have dared to say that this is a problem. I think it's up to us to protect those people who are victims of such a predatory industry. Let's get on with it! In any case, it is one act acceptable to God. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U258	Thank you. Now there's a line, because Aivar Riisalu named Valdo Randpere. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U259	Since I was mentioned twice, I think I have the right to two lines.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U260	No, you're entitled to one line.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U261	But I'll put these two lines together. Unfortunately, the previous speaker has not fully understood what we have previously regulated. He said that we have regulated the interest rate and that the interest rate on the quick loan is now 103%. It's deeply wrong. We've regulated the percentage rate of charge, and that's a whole different thing than the interest rate. This does not mean at all that you can lend a loan to a person at an interest rate of 103%, because in that case your APR may still be in thousands of years depending on the period in which the loan is granted for a long period. So this is a complex problem and it may be difficult to understand, but we have not defined a ceiling here that would be very inhumane. All the more reason I find that since we have set a ceiling that is actually relatively reasonable, it could be advertised. I don't see the problem. Hence my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U262	Thank you. As manager, I have to make sure there is no noise in the hall. I'm sure as Mr. Riisalu's understanding person, you will understand your point and you will find a common language. Arto Asa speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U263	I'm taking this opportunity to speak on this remote perhaps for the last time and also to dispel the risk of the hall going to be tagged. What really makes me hesitate? After all, the purpose of the bill is noble and acceptable. Aggressive SMS promotions with an interest rate of 4,000 percent really trample on a social sense of morality and have exceeded the threshold of pain for many. Let's draw a line! However, real life has become more complicated. Firstly, it has not been possible to define or specifically formulate what a SMS loan is. This has been done as precisely as possible, but it is still not possible to say what is a SMS loan, which we seem to have set as a political target for advertising. There have been certain exclusions that a SMS loan does not mean, for example, a mortgage or, I do not know, a credit card, for example. Still, it's quite a gray area. This raises new questions in many other areas. We've done quite a lot on our own in the last few days. We have set a limit on the cost of credit; we have brought all these companies under the control of the Financial Supervision Authority. Most market participants believe that this is what will clean up the market, as the Financial Supervision Authority's work is so good and efficient that the effect is guaranteed. Perhaps it would be better to wait six months and see what happens when the Financial Supervision Authority controls the fast-borrowing companies. Maybe there's no need for any new restrictions. However, the biggest concern is still due to the last-minute amendment that absolutely all advertisements in social media, allowed channels and on the Internet have allegedly 15 000 units per year This is quite a burden on the budget because it is dozens of officials. But this is still a small thing, apart from the fact that the requirement means a pointless administrative burden on a very large part of Estonian companies. This is an additional burden on the entire financial sector. We are complaining about the state of things here and are struggling to think about how to make the Estonian capital market and the financial sector more vibrant, how to attract new entrepreneurs, new service providers. We're all dreaming, I don't know, about government bonds and anything. At the same time, we are putting on top of the new totally disproportionate restrictions and demands. I say that I don't give a shit about SMS credit companies, but it bothers me that completely legal, completely normal parts of the economy, completely normal companies, with their financial services, have been the subject of this bill. In fact, it is not well thought out enough, either legally or economically. That's a lot of hesitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U264	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair Rein Lang, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U265	Good manager! The previous speaker, Arto Aas, spoke of a sensible approach to national regulations, and I would like to say very briefly to you, good members of the Riigikogu, that the following sentence is written in black in white in the Estonian Constitution: 'There is no censorship. ' Consequently, any review of the executive power imposed on any element of freedom of expression is clearly unconstitutional. If you now make such a decision to impose a review of advertisements in Estonia by someone, my question is why not impose it on the advertising of toothpaste, alcoholic beverages or any other services. However, since the Estonian Constitution is still in force, I am not sure that it will remain in force during the next Riigikogu membership, I propose that this draft be forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U266	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let us now begin the examination of the 780 amendments to the draft. Three amendments have been received. The first author is Kalev Kallemets, the position of the commission: to be disregarded. The proposal is not to be voted on in accordance with the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. The second amendment is from the lead committee, whose position is to take full account of it. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U267	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of the political group, I ask that we vote on this because the Liberals disagree on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U268	Thank you. Let's vote. Looks like we don't need a break this time. Dear colleagues, I am pleased to welcome you to the Chamber of the Riigikogu! We have reached the second amendment. I shall put to the vote the second amendment tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, which has been requested to be voted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 19 members of the Riigikogu), 28 against and 2 abstentions. The amendment was not supported. [[Let's hear it.]] The third amendment is from the lead committee. I'm still looking forward to active participation! With this, we have examined the amendments. Dear colleagues, the position of the commission is that the second reading of draft 780 should be completed. The second reading is closed and the 39th item has also been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U269	We are now going to the next item. The 40th point is the second reading of the draft Law amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels and the Tax Administration Act 841. Let it be said that there have been 12 amendments to this draft. I would like to ask Rannar Vassilyev, Chairman of the Finance Committee, for the speech of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U270	Thank you. The draft law amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels and the Tax Administration Act was initiated by the Monetary Commission with the aim of mitigating the situation of the users of the specially labelled liquid fuel which, from the beginning of this year or 1 May, may no longer use the fuel with preferential excise duties. The draft mainly concerns persons who, under the law in force, should not use specially labelled fuel for heating and electricity production after 1 May. The proposal, which has been sent from the Commission to second reading, provides for a much more lenient transition to the use of so-called conventional fuels. The draft was launched by the Commission in January of this year, namely on the 21st of the year, and has been dealt with at a rapid pace. The first reading took place on 28 January and three amendments were received from the Riigikogu, two from the IRL Group and one from the Central Party Group. These proposals were not supported by the Commission. The Government of the Republic gave its opinion on the draft, and the Ministry of Agriculture also addressed the Commission with proposals. At the end of the first reading, the Commission discussed the draft on 10, 16 and 17 February and made nine amendments. After the amendments, the content of the draft is summarised as follows: Households and housing cooperatives can use their current fuel residues in a proper stationary tank without any additional obligations, i.e. they do not have to measure, declare, pay excise duty or pump and sell back, as is the case under the current law. For households and housing associations receiving their heat from district heating companies, a measure is also foreseen to ensure equal treatment, i.e. they would be subject to the same principles as those mentioned above. Additional excise duties can also be used for the production of electricity in so-called backup generators until the end of the fuel which has been specially labelled and not yet paid. In the remaining cases, instead of the obligation to sell back or dispose of it, the difference between excise duties is allowed. On a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture, the draft also lays down the procedure for treating specially labelled fuel for agricultural use as State aid, including the procedure for exchanging and registering relevant data, which also changed the title of the draft. These clarifications do not change the current principles of the use of specific fuels in agriculture. In addition, the draft allows specially labelled fuel to continue to be used in dryers for the processing of agricultural products. All amendments are explained further in the list of amendments. The Commission's consensual decision was to conclude the second reading of the draft and to make the third reading of the draft at the Thursday session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U271	Let's get to the questions. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U272	Good manager! Good waitress! This bill cannot be processed in the Chamber at the moment. In my opinion, reading should be interrupted because there is no material. No one can take materials from the back of the hall to get into this subject and the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U273	Thank you. Unfortunately, I cannot get involved in this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U274	Aivar Chef, a good co-worker! Do you want the trial to be suspended, or is it enough for you to have this material on your desk three seconds ago? Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U275	Thank you, good manager. That's enough. That's enough. Good waitress! The question is, where did this mind suddenly come from so fast that it still can't be measured? I've been driving around Estonia, and I know at least one school and one big sports complex where two years ago there was land heating, but their tanks are full of the same labelled fuel oil. What are they supposed to do, do they have to do something now or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U276	According to the law, they should actually pay the excise difference because they are legal persons. In the case of natural persons, or rather households or housing associations, they will not be subject to additional excise duty as a result of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U277	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U278	Good waitress! According to the Ministry of Finance, there are ten heat companies in Estonia that, according to this draft, cannot consume all the specially labelled fuel free of excise duty, but must measure it and pay excise duty according to the amount of district heating not consumed in households or housing associations. Such heat companies are located in poor municipalities, such as Kallaste, where children's institutions and schools consume the rest of the heat. Do you not think that this distinction by the government is disproportionate and, in fact, should allow everyone to continue to consume specially labelled fuel?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U279	Thank you. We in the Commission had quite a long and thorough debate on this issue. On behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I have already asked for the corresponding calculations before this debate with the Ministry of Finance. The problem arises primarily because of the impact on the state budget already adopted. If, according to the current draft, this impact is EUR 1 million negative for households and housing associations, the impact would be almost three times greater if it were extended to legal entities. This is actually the problem. At the moment, we have a current budget, and this extension would also lead to the need to change the budget. The Ministry of Finance has estimated that EUR 1 million could be a reasonable limit where no change would be needed. But there really was a long debate on this in the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U280	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U281	Thank you. The last time this issue was analysed, you said in answer to the questions that you thought it would be a sensible solution where no additional excise duty should be paid on the fuel already purchased. Please tell me how you yourself voted in committee on the IRL Group's amendments. Did you support those amendments that, for example, would have given these children's institutions the opportunity to use specially labelled fuel without paying any additional excise duty to the end?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U282	Thank you. I have not specifically said in this Chamber whether they are households or housing associations, for which this is reasonable, or also for legal persons. What I referred to first and foremost in the Commission, and I think that is also the basis for many of the members of the Commission who made up the majority, is the impact on the budget that I touched a moment ago, this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U283	Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U284	Good manager! Good waitress! At the first reading of this law, it was said that we have all kinds of measures to rebuild heating systems for individual houses and that it is possible to receive support. But I don't see anywhere a support option that would allow housing companies to rearrange their boiler houses. When I look at Põltsamaa, for example, it has happened exactly so that at one point Felix narrowed down, some apartment buildings abandoned central boiler houses, they rebuilt their houses on oil boilers. Now they have to reconstruct something else, some alternative. Right now, it's only possible to rebuild the city on gas. Can you suggest which way they might turn to be supported when replacing boilers?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U285	As regards the various subsidies to switch from specially labelled liquid fuel to another source of heating, the development and implementation of these measures are within the remit of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. So it is probably the most sensible place to turn to such questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U286	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U287	Thank you. Good waitress! I sincerely doubt that overdiding the fuel that Kallaste has specially labelled as one of the poorer municipalities' heat companies and paying excise duty from it would save the state budget. What is the real reason why such small consumers are allowed to overmeasure their fuel and pay excise duty on it? This over-measurement and its control cost far more than it makes a profit. Is it just meant to bully these local governments? This was also not understood in committee discussions as to why this was being done.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U288	Thank you. The answer to the question is that this regulation is not made for the sake of just one municipality, and the amount that is spent on the budget comes not from one municipality, but from all legal entities in Estonia. That is why almost EUR 3 million is coming together, namely 2.8 million. Does this overmeasurement cost more than there is an additional financial gain? I'm sure it doesn't cost that much. In some individual cases, overmeasurement may be more expensive than the revenue from the additional tax revenue to the state budget, but the entire benefit of the measure still needs to be taken into account and compared with the costs of specific measurements. If the measures were not implemented or if there were no legal basis for their implementation, this revenue would probably not be generated.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U289	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Riisalu, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U290	I have a warrant, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U291	The second reading does not need to be...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U292	It could be now. This is a very important mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U293	One moment, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U294	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U295	One moment, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U296	I'm on time, Mr. Vice President of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U297	I can give you more time if you want.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U298	I would like to speak on behalf of the group.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U299	Right now, you're confusing me because you don't need a warrant. I'll give it back to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U300	Can I have it as a memory?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U301	You won't get the microphone until I give you my word. You don't have a microphone in you, wait a minute, don't be so impatient. I'll give Aivar Riisalu five minutes in the chair. Now, Mr Aivar Riisalu, you have the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U302	Mr. Longtime Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is an ugly legal work. How it all went like that, it's hard to say afterwards. Probably a little motivated by the procedure for this same draft, we have in the meantime had the brains to adopt a legislative amendment, which says that any tax changes must be known in advance for at least six months, if not a little more. In recent times, the position of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association has clearly been that home expenses have to be controlled. This was also reflected in our slogan 'Home expenses under control! ', which has been taken to ridicule quite a lot here, but in fact it has the Fatherland and Res Publica Association's view that home expenses must be taken under control, very deep content. Who are we going against with this bill? We are going with this bill against those people who have built a house deep in Soviet times, in the 1960s, in the 1970s, maybe even in the first half of the 1980s. These are the best people in Estonia, whose home is relatively likely to have children or grandchildren. The arguments that this bill has been through here are one more funny than the other. The final result was how we dealt with this pumping, additional measurement and all of this. This makes it quite clear that legislators should probably try to relate a little more to practical life than they have done so far. For the simple reason that in the end, we came to the triumph of reason in a sense, but by its very nature, this whole situation is still very comic in sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum. I would like to talk a little more about the fight against the climate of private consumers in the country where they live, i.e. Estonia. As we know, we have a rather uncomfortable heating period compared to the countries of southern Europe. I remember very clearly when the Estonian state even promoted electric heating in the late 1990s as the most favorable, cheaper, reasonable, domestic and whatever else. Hundreds of people had this propaganda put electric heating in their homes, including me. I dare say it all collapsed in a few years. How much we've talked about gas, gas independence, how much we're talking about oil heating is an outdated rudiment! We have to agree to that. My question, however, is above all how long it will last. Pellet production is actually quite energy-intensive and uncomfortable... Mr. Vice President, I can see clearly that I need three minutes of extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U303	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U304	Now it's a beautiful fashion word, but do we really know to the end how much energy is actually needed to produce a pellet and how much can the price of a pellet change when it becomes a common type of heating? The position of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union is that it is not possible to adopt laws that strike the part of our population that has behaved in a responsible manner, built normal conditions for their own home. We should support these people, but not go to them with such strangely rude draft laws that affect their state of life. Because I'm sorry, but the price increase is 38%. And when here, with shaky lips, we talk about some kind of support measures and how everything can be reconstructed and redesigned, well, that's not the case. It is so difficult to pursue these measures that normal people will lose their minds first. This is not good practice and this is not a sensible draft. We have to consider where we live. We have to consider who the people it is hitting, and we have to think in the big sense that it is not wise to come up with such sillyly-looking drafts that fill a rather small amount of the state budget. I think the IRL has made very clear proposals here. We have proposed that we postpone for a year. In principle, however, we are of the opinion that it may be a mockery when we are talking about controlling home expenses, but in a way or another it has been our wish. We have been saying that in our climate zones, we really should support all kinds of activities that would enable people to pay less for heating their homes. With a law like this, we're not helping this thing any further. If we had the authority, we wouldn't let such a bill pass. I think that the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, for whom it is important that the lives of the people of Estonia are good, that their home is their fortress, cannot support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U305	Thank you. Please, speaking on the spot, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U306	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I think this is a serious issue and that this draft, on which the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs was not ashamed to say that the idea is simply to scrape up money, and what is being relaxed now, is not really necessary. All this tax increase should be thrown into the trash. That is what we are asking for with our amendment. The vice president laughed, but I have to say this is a serious matter. Several people in Harju and Raplamaa, the owners of the individual home, have contacted me. This question concerns hundreds and hundreds of people and I think it is a serious matter. We now, in the last days of this Parliament, have the opportunity to reverse the course of this amendment, which we are going to vote through on the IRL proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U307	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Aivar Koka!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U308	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, When I came here, I was wondering what we were gonna do. The people have chosen 101 members of the Riigikogu and then we decide that one day we need to increase the household's heating costs by 38%. Is it real? Someone here is talking a lot about standing up for people. Is that what it is to stand up for people when we raise heating costs? Someone is talking about Northern Estonia. If there is Northern Estonia, it should be very clear that it is cold in the north and often it is necessary to heat eight months a year to get your home warm. One side is the subject of labelled fuel oil being discussed here today, the other is the rise in gas excise, which is planned for the years to come. When I look at the neighborhood where I come from, I wonder what's gonna happen in Põltsamaa City in spring. At present, there is no measure to transfer apartment buildings to alternative heating, and there is no support for this, only private houses have support. How can we support them? Is it possible that every apartment building in the city has a pellet container and a boiler house and smoke everywhere, or is it logical that there are central boiler houses and the price is quite normal? However, central boiler houses are currently on oil heating and apartment buildings, which have been cut apart from central boilerhouse pipes for various reasons, have also been transferred to oil heating. Peter was asking about the Peipsi area. In the shoes, which is one of the poorest municipalities, where people are unable to pay well for their heating, a boiler house needs to be renovated. So, what should we switch to? It is not possible to switch to ground heating everywhere; solar energy does not produce enough heat to withstand it in the cold winter months; gas is not everywhere; furnaces must not be built everywhere. We talk more and more every day that CO2 must not be blown up and that stove heating must be eliminated in cities. So what is the best option we should use for heating in the future? There is no such best option, but there are different options in each region, and every landlord tries to use the most favourable option to heat his own house. Why does it have to be the country that makes the decision for us to burn our kettle? If anyone says there's gonna be some kind of profit here, I don't get it. If we get anything on the excise duty on labelled fuel oil now, if we transfer everything to another fuel, there will be no more money on that excise duty. We've spent some money, but there's no revenue for the country. If anyone says the state's gonna make a profit, they're gonna lie. We are now making a harmful decision for the state and a more harmful decision for our people. I dare say that this is literally a hostile act against the people of Estonia. I hope that when the amendments are voted on here, the representatives of 'Definitely forward for Estonia' will vote for our people to be able to warm up their homes with confidence next autumn. Otherwise, our elderly people and our young families, who are already struggling, will be even more difficult next year. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U309	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U310	I do not think that anyone in this Chamber would want our people to be difficult and show us in the last two weeks, which has remained until the end of the election campaign, that we are precisely the ones who are putting on the heating costs again. I dare say on behalf of the IRL Group today, as I said at first reading: our firm position is that, if this law is adopted tomorrow, one of the first drafts in the new composition is to withdraw all this law and to cancel all this increase in excise duty. There is no point in placing a burden on our people that they must start rebuilding boilers that they may have built just a few years ago. It is not that everything that comes from outside Estonia is bad. If everything that is bad outside Estonia is bad, none of us should drive our car, because in cars we use the fuel that is not produced in Estonia. We're not going to heat cars, motor cars and drive wood gas, we're still putting gas in there that comes from somewhere else, diesel coming from somewhere else, or gasoline coming from somewhere else. There is still a moment to consider whether this Riigikogu will go down in history by putting even greater burdens on our people. I'm telling you the truth, I can't imagine where people take the money to rebuild their boilers. And the worst part is that there are currently no measures for all options. Support is for private homes, but all other, very large apartment buildings also need support. I asked before what were those schools, kindergartens or sports complexes that stopped heating with labelled fuel oil several years ago and switched to ground heating. How does the IRS know there's any oil in that tank, because it hasn't been bought last year? They're supposed to be really stupid in those municipalities if they volunteer and say, oh, we're still full of fuel oil, come and take the money from us. However, the State has not allocated any cents so that the municipalities could have taken account of this extraordinary cost. I wish you all a sense in the final procedure for this draft, and I dare say that the IRL cannot support such a draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U311	There is no further wish for negotiations, I will close the negotiations. There are 12 amendments to the draft; we have an obligation to revise them. The proposals of the Committee on Finance have been fully taken into account: the first, second, third and fourth proposals. The fifth proposal has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and has been disregarded. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U312	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of our group, I ask that the honourable hall be able to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U313	Clearly, we will put to the vote Amendment 5 tabled by the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union, which has been disregarded by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. 6 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, 24 against. The amendment was not supported. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which has been fully taken into account. The seventh proposal is from the Centre Party Group, which has not been taken into account, but is not to be voted in plenary under the Rules of Procedure Act. The eighth amendment is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as well as the ninth, tenth, eleventh and twelveth amendments, all of which have been fully taken into account. The 12th proposal is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and has been disregarded. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U314	Thank you. I would also ask the Chamber to vote on this excellent amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U315	Okay, let's do it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 12 tabled by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, which has been disregarded by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote. There are 6 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 24 against, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. We have examined the amendments. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading. Second reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U316	Our next item is the second reading of the Bill 843 on Supplementing the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Commission's rapporteur is Rannar Vassilyev, Chairman of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U317	Happy fans of the Tax Law Supplementation Act who have stayed in the hall! This bill was initiated by the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu on 29 January. The draft is driven by the collective address of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry last year. I can introduce the substance of the draft, even by reading the text, as it is quite short. It states: 'The tax law, as well as the adoption and entry into force of this amendment, must normally be at least six months between adoption and entry into force. The provision does not apply in the case of a tax law and an amendment to that law which favours a taxable person. ' No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, committees or political groups within the deadline for amendments. Nor has the PI made any changes to the draft. The meeting of the Committee on Finance, where the draft was prepared for the second reading, took place on 12 February. The Finance Committee decided to make the following proposals: to put the draft on the Riigikogu agenda for second reading on 18 February and to stop the second reading of the draft. The Committee on Monetary Affairs also proposed that the draft be sent to third reading by 19 February, if the second reading is completed today. All these decisions were made by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U318	Questions for the waitress. Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U319	Thank you. Good waitress! Changes in taxation often have a major impact on entrepreneurship. Why did the Committee on Monetary Affairs think that six months was enough time for companies to put their actions in line with this change and why not a year?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U320	The Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry actually proposed in its collective address that this period should be six months. For the sake of the truth, I say that there is a little bit of nuance here, in one case we are talking about acceptance and, in the other case, entry into force. But in the big picture, the company will certainly already receive a signal by adopting that tax changes will very likely enter into force in the future. That's the reason. Of course, the longer this time is, the better it will be for businesses. Inevitably, however, we must monitor how the state budget process looks and the even longer gap between entry into force and adoption would probably make the budgetary process very inflexible. So I guess you never do that sometimes. I think that there is now such a very good compromise between the state and businesses. This will significantly improve our business environment than it is now, providing even more certainty.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U321	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U322	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! I'm asking for accuracy and considering that all that we're talking about is going into the verbatim. The text of the law states that there must normally be at least six months between adoption and entry into force. As a Commission waitress, perhaps you will specify what this term 'generally' means? Are there any special cases and other situations out of it, or what?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U323	Thank you. That's a good question. Thank you for the opportunity to clarify. In the future, when this term 'generally' will be applied, it will certainly be helpful to have an explanatory statement showing what the legislator meant at the time. He meant that 'generally' does not apply to situations where, for example, there is an economic crisis or some kind of security crisis that requires changes in tax laws. This is more likely to happen in the event of an economic crisis or in the case of a favourable effect on the tax subject, which is already included in the text of the law. The term 'generally' does not include, for example, legislative changes to combat tax fraud. They are also allowed to be done more quickly than within six months. For example, in cases where it really appears that tax fraud has expanded in some area and that the law needs to be amended to contain it, it is possible to do so according to the explanatory memorandum to the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U324	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U325	Thank you. Good waitress! Just as companies do their budgets for one year. Is the state currently in such a fragile state that changes to the tax system may need to be made so quickly that the company has to act on them and pay taxes in a new way within one year? After all, we are always saying that things are in order in the country and there is nothing to worry about. Why is the time between the adoption and entry into force of tax laws still so short?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U326	Thank you. In practice, this means that the state will make its budget in the context of next year. And if the company knows what next year will be like for it in June last year, it will be able to make plans in preparation for its budget. So that makes sense. It is certainly not normal for business to have the 2016 budget drawn up in 2014, which is probably not the case. I believe that the usual business practice is that the 2016 budget will be drawn up in 2015 and, if the tax change takes effect from 1 January, according to this law, it will be known in June.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U327	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U328	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, who have stayed in this Chamber! I would like to say that this is one of the last draft laws that this Riigikogu is dealing with and the last one today. This has important meaning for Estonian entrepreneurs. We've talked about this before. In fact, the substantive problem has become that in recent years the government has, in essence, at the same time as the national budget is brought to parliament, presented various tax proposals in the proceedings. At some point, it even went so far that the tax bill was granted after the transfer of the state budget. After all, what happened here a while ago was particularly perilous. The drafts, which were taken into account in the next year's budget for tax revenue, such as the VAT on cars, were introduced during the state budget procedure, and Parliament bounced it back to the government. There was a situation where the budget needed to find new sources of cover, because the government had foreseen a specific amount of revenue by law that had not actually been adopted. We made the situation somewhat more accurate when we processed the basic state budget law at the beginning of last year. Then we said very clearly that the government should not, after the transfer of the draft state budget, issue any further drafts to Parliament, which could affect the state budget for next year. Even at the time the basic law was being processed, we had internal disputes about bringing the date of entry into force of potential tax changes even earlier. At that point, however, these debates and dialogues did not get as far as they are today. I would like to acknowledge on this point, now I could say, all the political parties and, essentially, our own committee, the Committee on Monetary Affairs, under whose name this change has been made. Finally, we have reached a situation where, on the basis of a referral from the Chamber of Commerce, on the basis of their collective appeal, we are dealing with a bill that says very clearly that if we want to adopt a tax amendment, there should be six months between the beginning of the financial year and the entry into force of a specific tax law, which is very reasonable. We can discuss whether this period could be even longer, as Mr Laurson asked here, but six months are certainly much more reasonable than today's situation, where the difference was relatively nonexistent. In any case, businesses need to plan their operating and production cycles, and this change will give them some greater certainty in the near future. So once again, it is very reasonable that this bill is on the working tables of the members of the Riigikogu today. I hope that it will be adopted tomorrow, which will clearly enable companies to look more confidently into the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-18_U329	There are no further requests to speak. No amendments to the draft 843 have been tabled. The Committee on Finance has proposed that the second reading of the draft be discontinued. As a general rule, the Riigikogu has done so. Since there is no other proposal now, we are acting as we have generally acted. The second reading of Bill 843 is complete. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 7:31 p.m.
