ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-17_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the fifth working week of the IXth plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-17_U2	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-17_U3	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet in the Chamber, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-17_U4	It would be funny, yes, to hand over the bill now. But modestly, on the basis of the Riigikogu decision of 5 May 2011, on the establishment of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, on behalf of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, I will transfer to the Riigikogu a report on the activities of the Special Committee on State Budget Control covering the period from July 2014 to February 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-17_U5	Thank you. There are currently no further proposals to the Riigikogu Board. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one report. We're gonna do a presence check. Currently 73 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, no 28.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-17_U6	We will begin the processing of today's agenda items. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Biocidal Products Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 754. We are preparing for the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law amending the Biocidal Products Act and the State Fees Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 754. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-17_U7	Agenda item 2 is the third reading of the draft law amending the law on ambient air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic. Any requests? There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 816. I am voting on the draft law amending the law on ambient air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic 816. Please take a stand and vote. There were 70 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-17_U8	Today's third item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on National Opera initiated by the Committee on Culture. Any requests? No calls, no negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 767. We are preparing for the final vote. Is there something Eiki Nestor would like to say? I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on National Opera, initiated by the Committee on Culture, 767. Please take a stand and vote. By a large majority of 71 votes in favour, and no one opposed or impartial, the draft has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-17_U9	As a fourth item, the second reading of the draft law on the prevention and resolution of the financial crisis initiated by the Government of the Republic continues. Aivar Sõerdi, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-17_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-17_U11	Wait a minute! Quiet in the hall, please! Let's continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-17_U12	Thank you. The Committee on Finance prepared a draft of 821 for the second reading to be continued at its meeting on 12 and 16 February. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Eesti Pank and the Financial Supervision Authority also participated in the last session. On 11 February the Monetary Committee proposed that the Riigikogu stop reading the draft on the basis of the need to specify the role of coordinator for Eesti Pank when deciding resolution measures and § 104 (1) of the Credit Institutions Act, which is to be amended by the draft. Let me briefly say once again, as a reminder, that the aim of the draft is to provide for measures that, above all in the public interest, can most effectively prevent the financial crisis or address it at the minimum cost to society, avoiding or minimising the need to mobilise public budget resources in order to rehabilitate failing banks. No amendments were received by the deadline of 12 February at 10 a.m. The Commission unanimously decided to propose two amendments to the draft itself. I will be brief on these proposals. The first one envisages two changes. First, it states that the Financial Supervision Authority will not decide to open resolution proceedings and further implement the resolution measure or right referred to in § 55 of the Act in the course of the resolution procedure without listening to Eesti Pank's position. Secondly, it provides that the Financial Supervision Authority may, by decision of the resolution procedure, appoint special administrators or special administrators, taking into account the provisions of § 41 (3), which means that Eesti Pank will listen to the position of Eesti Pank before taking a decision. Representatives of Eesti Pank, the Financial Supervision Authority and the Ministry of Finance who participated in the meeting of the Monetary Commission provided background information and expressed views on the impact of the changes. The representative of Eesti Pank explained that putting the coordination obligation on every decision of the Financial Supervision Authority to Eesti Pank when it concerns the opening of resolution proceedings and the further implementation of the resolution measure or right requires the construction of a new competence of Eesti Pank and requires additional consultation with the European Central Bank. The opinion would be issued on the basis of current competences, for example, an opinion is currently given on the provision of liquidity credit where appropriate. According to the Ministry of Finance, the proposal submitted gives Eesti Pank the right to adopt a position and the opportunity to adopt a position, which is not an obligation. In their view, these changes could be assessed without further consultation of the European Central Bank. The obligation to listen to Eesti Pank's position is also referred to in Article 4 (2) of the Eesti Pank Act, which provides that this must be done when deciding on important economic issues for the government. Since hearing the position does not require regulating the procedure, unlike coordination, this wording can be considered sufficient to give Eesti Pank a right of intervention, but requires minimal changes to the law in terms of Eesti Pank's obligations. According to the information provided by the Financial Supervision Authority, the consensual opinion of the Ministry of Finance, Eesti Pank and the Financial Supervision Authority is that the function of the reorganisation agency should be that of the Financial Supervision Authority, as the know-how is concentrated there. The proposed structure of the Financial Supervision Authority is in line with the Directive and has been endorsed by the European Commission. The reorganisation function will be organisationally separate from the banking supervision function of the Financial Supervision Authority, up to the decision-making body's board. This means that the reorganisation is the responsibility of a board member who is not responsible for the supervision of banks' capital. Decisions shall be taken collectively by the Governing Board. From 1 January 2016, the recovery decisions of the banks under the SRM (in Estonian, the'resolution mechanism') will be taken by the SRB, which is the resolution board in Brussels. The role of the local reorganisation agencies remains here in the enforcement of decisions. The Commission meeting pointed out that the independence of the resolution function is important and important and that the Financial Supervision Authority must have all relevant information. Eesti Pank participates in the process within the limits of its mandate. In addition to the law, there are also memorandums of cooperation between supervisory authorities. There was a question of what would happen if the law provided for Eesti Pank to be coordinated, but it did not. Then who's responsible? It was also pointed out that speed and confidentiality of the whole process are important. Sometimes decisions have to be made on the weekend. According to the information provided by the Ministry of Finance, the transposition of the Directive and the amendment of the Guarantee Fund Act are being prepared. The second amendment complements the wording of subsection 104 (1) (10) of the Credit Institutions Act by adding the condition that the general meeting of a credit institution may be required to recall a member of the Supervisory Board. This is done when there is a legal basis. According to this, the Financial Supervision Authority has the right to require the head of a credit institution to be recalled by precept if, first, the Financial Supervision Authority considers that the person does not meet the requirements imposed on the head of a credit institution or, second, the person has provided misleading, incorrect or falsified information or documents in connection with his election or appointment, or, thirdly, the person's activity under the direction of the credit institution has shown that he is unable to organise the management of the credit institution in such a way that the interests of depositors, other clients and creditors are adequately protected. Articles 27 and 28 of Directive 2014/59/EU provide that the competent authority must have the right to request the resignation of a member of the management body, not only to propose the withdrawal of a member of the supervisory board, as set out in the current wording of that point. In addition, the use of the word'required' is more precisely in accordance with Article 67 of Directive 2013/36/EU, which implies that the supervisory authority must be able to apply a penalty or administrative sentence if the position of the driver is held by a person who does not meet the driver's fitness requirements. Therefore, the amendment removes inaccuracies in the Credit Institutions Act, which should have been improved when transposing the Banking Directive at the end of 2013. It is clear that the effects of the financial crisis have significantly aggravated the requirements for bank management in the world and that supervisory authorities have been given much more powers than they had previously. This right must also be updated in Estonia. Consequently, the Commission took the following decision: to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda by Tuesday 17 February 2015 and that the second reading be closed. I would point out that this decision was consensual. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-17_U13	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Two amendments to the draft have been tabled, and we will review them. Amendment 1 is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account; proposal 2 is also from the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 821. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-17_U14	As the fifth item on the agenda, the second reading of the draft law amending the Waste Act initiated by the Government of the Republic continues. I would like to present a chair of the Vice-Chairman of the Environment Committee, Erki Noole.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-17_U15	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The second reading of Bill 790 amending the Waste Act was suspended on 21 January. The proposal was to seek the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs on the draft law. The question was whether a control transaction is an imitation of a criminal offence, since the action that an official does in the context of a control purchase is not unlawful, does not contribute to or incite to commit a criminal offence. The Committee on Legal Affairs found that the draft law amending the Waste Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 790 regulations prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Environment are not regarded as intelligence activities and the Committee on Legal Affairs supports the solution proposed in the draft. It was signed by Neeme the Great, Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee. Last Monday, the Committee on the Environment discussed this letter at its meeting and proposed to put the continuation of the second reading of draft 790 on the agenda of the Riigikogu plenary on 17 February, i.e. today. We have a proposal to stop the second reading of the draft (these decisions were consensual) and when the second reading of the draft 790 is completed, we propose that the third reading be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 18 February (as well as a consensual decision). The last decision taken by the Commission was to propose that the draft be put to the final vote of 790 (which was also consensual). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-17_U16	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Erki Arrow! Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. No amendments to the draft were received. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 790. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-17_U17	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, initiated by Andres Herkel, member of the Riigikogu. I would like a speech by Mr Rein Lang, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-17_U18	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! As a reminder, my colleague, Mr Herkel, initiated this draft as a result of the situation that arose during its membership in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, where the two votes of the Commission ended with a result of 0: 0. Andres Herkel's idea was that in such cases the large hall should be able to vote on this amendment. First reading went smoothly. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the preparation of the draft for second reading on 9 February. Then it became clear that one amendment had been tabled. This was done by the speaker here. Its aim is to make the text of the draft text clear. The current text of the draft text is this: 'The vote shall not be subject to an amendment which was not taken into account by the commission and which received less than two votes in favour. " We would add: '... unless the proposal received no votes in favour or against. 'This essentially means the result of the vote 0: 0. The Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs asked whether this would mean that this proposal would automatically be voted in plenary. This has not been foreseen by the initiator of the draft, it is an opportunity. If the proposer so wishes, he may put the amendment to the vote. The Commission unanimously considered such an amendment to be reasonable and decided to take full account of it. Procedural decisions were then taken: to propose to the Bureau that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 17 February, to propose that the second reading be closed and that the draft be sent to third reading when the second reading is closed today, by Thursday, 19 February, and to put the draft to the final vote. All the Commission's proposals were consensual. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-17_U19	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Rein Lang! Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. One amendment to the draft amendment was tabled by Mr Lang. The Governing Commission's proposal is to take this fully into account. The amendment has been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 774. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-17_U20	As the seventh item on the agenda, the second reading of the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic continues. I would like to present the chair to Vice-Chairman Marko Pomerants of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-17_U21	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, When the second reading of draft 770 took place here, we informed you of our decision that this bill should be dealt with further. That is how you confirmed the decision taken by the Committee on Legal Affairs to suspend the second reading of the decision before the large Chamber and to continue working on the draft. I have to tell you that our future time in the Commission took a constructive approach to the draft and, as a result of this time, three amendments were adopted by the Committee on Legal Affairs on 10 February. I'll introduce them to you very briefly. The material presented to you is comprehensive. The first amendment concerns the deletion from the draft of the amendment to the definition of victim. There was a debate in the Commission on the new definition of the victim proposed in the draft. The question arose as to whether the new definition could lead to the emergence of "new" groups of victims who could actually hold a dispute in civil proceedings. That is why we did not change the definition of victim compared to the definition in the Code of Criminal Procedure. The second amendment concerned whether, in pre-trial proceedings, the proceedings could be brought to an end other than the police authority of the prosecutor's office if the person who committed the crime had not been identified and it was not possible to collect further evidence or if it was not appropriate to collect them. The original proposal was that such proceedings could be terminated by order of the investigating authority. The Commission did not support this proposal and therefore the former regime remains in force, under the regulation of the prosecutor's office. However, in order to balance the workload of the prosecutor's office, there is also the following proposal concerning the time limits for holding custody in pre-trial proceedings. If it was only one month in the draft for crimes of second degree, then now we are proposing to the large hall that the investigating judge authorise the detention of the suspect and accused person for up to two months. These two amendments, the right to close proceedings and the time limits for holding custody, should be examined together. The Commission was in agreement on this. We also found it necessary to clarify the issue of misdemeanours. The committee had a discussion about the part of the misdemeanour procedure which provides that an extra-judicial practitioner should submit an application for non-initiation of the misdemeanour procedure to the person making the notification. In which cases should the defendant base his decision not to commence? Thus, the debate has resulted in such an amendment to the draft that, if it does not appear from the misdemeanour report that any type of damage has been caused to the claimant in connection with the commission of the misdemeanour, such a decision not to open the misdemeanour procedure need not be substantiated and there is no need to justify why the party who has decided not to initiate the procedure. We also had a debate on the transmission of a copy of the misdemeanor protocol. As we know, the normal situation is that a decision is made at the hearing, but the bill also provides for the possibility to obtain such a decision by e-mail, for example. This would avoid situations where a fine could eventually become a very costly recovery process with a bailiff. A person, with his or her consent, of course, may receive this message at his or her home or any e-mail address and, if he or she is facing financial punishment, he or she will be able to deliver it nicely, pay the money to the state, and therefore he or she will not have any follow-up. But so that police personnel do not have to send e-mails all the time, IT development is also needed so that such a copy is sent automatically. Therefore, we have extended the period of entry into force of paragraphs 14 and 15 of § 5 of the Act until 1 September 2015. Now this draft should be in order that the Committee on Legal Affairs dares to advise you to finish your second reading. We have a suggestion that before the President of the Riigikogu invites us to celebrate the end of our activities on Thursday, we also adopt this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-17_U22	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Marko Pomerants. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. We will examine the amendments, three of them, all from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Amendment 1, the commission has fully taken into account, amendment 2, the commission has fully taken into account, amendment 3 is also from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the commission has fully taken into account. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 770. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-17_U23	Today's last item, No 8, is the second reading of the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and other Acts, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Social Democratic Party. For a presentation, please address the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Neeme Suur.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-17_U24	Madam Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs prepared a draft of 844 on Thursday 12 February. We examined the amendments received, we also read a letter sent by fast-lending companies, and there was a debate. So many of the amendments that two of them had been received. One of the things about changing the title is from the Commission itself. Since the title of the bill listed a large number of different laws that should be amended, it is appropriate to formulate the title as follows: 'Law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and other laws. " As such, the title is simpler and meets the requirements of our technique. The second amendment was received from the Centre Party. In particular, they had a proposal to add §4032 51 of the Act, according to which the creditor should make sure, when assessing creditworthiness, that the consumer is able to maintain income at least at the level of subsistence after payment of the loans. The first amendment was supported by the Commission, while the second amendment was not supported by the Commission. There was also a debate on this issue. It was found that the introduction of the concept of subsistence limit in the credit granting process complicates and confuses the situation. Finally, we can no longer understand whether, who and how the limit of living is assessed at this point and if this limit of living is near, whether these people will be unable to communicate with the bank at all or whether the transaction should be negligible if the money does not remain within the limit of living. This would make regulation unreasonable. The Commission did not support this proposal. As I also said, four fast-lending companies again approached the Commission with a proposal not to introduce this legislative amendment and to apply different principles, especially in the case of short-term and smaller short-term loans. Since the Commission had already listened to and adopted the draft 713 and discussed the matter with them in the committee, we did not open the discussion widely, but stuck to the principle of the draft: three times the average annual percentage rate of charge of Eesti Pank is used to calculate the express loan ceiling. The position of the Commission remained the same. The Commission decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 17 February and to propose that the second reading be closed. When the second reading is completed, we will be proposing that the draft be sent to the third reading by 18 February and put to the final vote. All these procedural decisions were adopted by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-17_U25	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Neeme the Great! Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. Two amendments to the draft had been tabled, and we will review them. Amendment 1 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 2 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. This proposal does not have to be voted on in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 844. Second reading is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda has been exhausted. Thank you, everyone, and I wish you a beautiful day. Closure of the sitting at 10.35 a.m.
