ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U2	Honourable President of the Republic! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Members of the Government of the Republic! Your Excellencys! Ladies and gentlemen! Pursuant to § 2 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, the Riigikogu is chairing today's session until the election of the President of the Riigikogu by Alo Heinsalu, Chairman of the Election Committee of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U3	The President of the Republic has the floor to open the first session of the first session of the XIII Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U4	Good afternoon, respectable representative of the people. Good guests! Ladies and gentlemen! The Estonian people chose the Riigikogu for the seventh time after the restoration of independence. The composition of each Riigikogu has faced different tasks, but always major tasks. True, the main objective is still the same as the people in adopting the Constitution: the unwavering faith and unwavering will must secure and develop a state that protects internal and external peace and is placed on present and future generations for their social success and overall benefit. Unreversible reforms during the term of office of the VII and VIII Riigikogu in 1992-1999 brought Estonia to the path of rapid development. True, it has not been enough for every individual to grow well - being and confidence, but, objectively, our development has been very rapid. The comparison with many of our fellow fates at that time proves that these choices were correct. The decision-makers paid for the pain and uncertainty caused by the choices with temporary loss of image and poorer election results. Sadly, some of them also cost in health. This is the fate of statesmen, the greatest of them, is rarely recognised during their lifetime or term of office. Their destiny is size. The work of the IX Riigikogu between 1999 and 2003 took Estonia to the European Union and NATO. The composition of the Riigikogu X in 2003-2007 practiced new work related to being in the European Union. In the next four years, the XI Riigikogu found a worthy willingness to cooperate in order to bring Estonia out of the economic crisis. If we look at the activities of the XII Riigikogu that has just laid down the mandate, what will remain of this account? Time will tell. Perhaps it is in history that the voice of citizens began to insist more and more on the right to participate in the day-to-day work of Parliament. The people's assembly helped this voice into this hall and, to some extent, it was listened to. It's the hallmark of a mature society. I am also recalling Estonia's previous representatives for the reason that we are celebrating another equator that has been crossed. Before the occupation, six members of the Riigikogu were elected. Good fellow roadmen! Unfortunately, in characterising Estonia's current political climate, it must be admitted that political technology of all kinds, populism in a bad sense and skin-keeping are too much in politics. There is also too much excessive and sometimes bad legislation, making the drafting of the state budget more bureaucratic and rigid, the thoughtless decisions made on the wave of cheap wanting to like. I am also thinking of arguing about things that do not deserve a debate and quietly knocking things out that deserve a debate. For example, a planning law with a decisive, important and long-term impact on Estonia's spatial development was adopted after a sluggish debate with 27 votes in favour and 18 against. At the same time, the public opinion arena was filled with criticism from professionals in the field. No, they were not in favour of maintaining the status quo and against the changes. On the contrary, they demanded a fundamental change for the better. However, the new law does not guarantee this. However, over the years, a number of taxpayers' financial hours, expert time and energy were spent. The Riigikogu had the power to propose legislative replacement activities, but this was not done. I hope that the government coalition that is being created will agree: the law is an instrument, not an end in itself. Circumvention of laws and departures or simply rewriting will not solve people's concerns. Good people's representatives! If you find that mistakes have been made before you, then assume that they were still acting in a good way. Don't look for the culprits, just make things right. Please face the real problems of your life one by one and look for the best solution in respect of everyone's opinion. To do so, I think we need to listen more and then talk more. Different interests and perceptions must be brought here, to the Chamber of the Riigikogu, to the people's representatives and to the debate respectful of their constituents. We have to argue, be well informed about the government's activities, ask for and make criticism if necessary. Still as it was in a mature country, showing how to do better. Anyone can say how it can't or what can go wrong. Let's race for several visions of how it can and how it's going to work out. All of this should be explained to the people in an understandable way. Even the wisest decision taken with the most noble of intentions can collapse as a result of a poor explanation. On several occasions, we have just seen the fruits of failed communication over the past few years, whether it be on the law of law or on the employment of people with disabilities. Respectable Riigikogu XIII formation! Your mandate will be to implement a number of important reforms. Bringing disabled people into work life and the new Child Welfare Act are just a few examples. I shall name them separately because it is the weaker members of society that need special protection, not an additional amplification of natural fears. Also, where was the view taken that the Law on Cohabitation would change someone's sexual orientation, divide or assemble couples, or alter the fact that many children would grow outside of marriage? The duty of the state must be limited to creating opportunities so that everyone can manage their private relations reasonably. Once again, why attribute meaning to the law that it doesn't have in any way? Work in the Riigikogu measures the conscience and civic responsibility of each of you. There are many debates ahead where there can be no place for words to be cast, for partners to be provoked, for self-prejudiced, for unscrupulous riding on conspiracy theories. The border agreement with Russia awaits ratification. I sincerely hope that the decision will not go behind the picking of a political point. We need unanimous, community-wide national defence, effective response to hostile influence. In defence, we still need a balanced decision-making process, not making decisions in a hasty and narrow circle. I stress: members of the Riigikogu have the responsibility to keep up to date with issues related to Estonia's security and international development, as well as with the European Union and information technology. The interest of a representative should not be diminished immediately when a small e or i is included in a subject or solution. People's ambassadors who are not on the relevant committees should also consider the European Union, security and e-state to be important. The Riigikogu, I recall, is also a parliament of a member of the European Union and NATO. Ladies and gentlemen! I very much hope that the reorganisation of public administration and local government will not be reduced in the way that has already been the case many times: the creation of new committees, the mapping of the situation and the further analysis of the capacity of the municipalities. We've seen it all before. We all understand the real meaning of this scenario. This means that this Parliament and another government will not do anything either. The time for state and administrative reform is ripe. We know what's wrong and where the problems are. The state of Estonia must offer its people a good standard of living, emphasise its peculiarity and not try to become a clone of another country. We must avoid the mistakes of others and, if you wish, even exploit them in our own interests. It's urgent, really urgent. But there is hope. This was reflected in the pre-election debate. All political parties have promised to tackle these issues, to distinguish priorities from non-essential ones, to seek solutions that are suitable for Estonia. Let's think about what the country is for us. Is the state an administrative company that makes sure that electricity is in the house and water is in the tap, that the door is locked and that the janitor cleans the door? Is that really enough? The Riigikogu, which is starting its work today, and the government that is about to take office, are facing hard work. And one big party, too, is the round anniversary of the Republic of Estonia. In the first half of 2018, Estonia bears the responsibility of the Presidency of the European Union. It also forces the small e-state to show what it can do with its dredge and agility. Our goal cannot be simply to endure this responsibility. It is our duty to contribute, in a visible form, to the future of the European Union. This is a great job, a great responsibility, and this work and responsibility will begin for all of you no later than now. History does make a fair assessment of the great statesmen and wives. Lightweight gamblers stay on the edge of the big story. I wish you courage, wisdom and fineness, respectable members of the XIII Riigikogu! Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U5	Thank you, President of the Republic! Dear Members of the Riigikogu, we are now doing a presence check. Thank you! There are 100 members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U6	To read the text of the oath of the member of the Riigikogu, please address the oldest member of the XIII Riigikogu, Rein Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U7	Honourable President of the Republic! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu in the composition of Riigikogu XIII, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U8	I now ask you to sign the oath text: Aas Arto Aas, Jaak Aaviksoo, Jüri Adams, Jüri Mess, Mess, Mess, Jums, Jums, Jums, Jums, Jums, Jums, Jums, Jums, Jums, Jums, Igor Gräzin, Hannes Hanso, Monika Haukanomom, Mart Helme, M. A. Hemme, Andres Herkel, Remo Holsmer, Olga Ivanovanova, Jüri Jaanson, Kalev Kalev Kalav Kalmas Kruuse, Urmas Kruus, Martin Kruus, Kalmas Kruus, Kalmas Kum, K K K K K K K K K K K K K KK, K K K K K K KK, KK, Helik K, Helm K, Ants Lates, Kal Lates, Lates, La La La La La La La La, La Lass, Messs, Lis, Messss, Messss, Messssss, Mes, Mes, Mes, Mess, Mes, Mes, Mes, Mes, Mes, Mes, Mes, Mes, Mes, Mes, Mes, Mes, Mes, Mes, Mes, Mes, Mes, Mes, Mess, Mes, J Mes, J Mes, Mess, J Mes, J Mes, J Mes, J Mes, J Mes, J Mes, J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., Mes, J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., J., Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu, on behalf of the Election Commission of the Republic, I congratulate you on taking up your duties. [[Let's hear it.]] [[Sings the boys' choir. Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U9	Thank you to the Tallinn Boys Choir and conductor Lydia Rahula! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U10	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! According to § 69 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the Riigikogu elects the President of the Riigikogu and two vice-chairmen from among its members. The Election Committee of the Republic follows the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Before going to the election procedures, let me briefly introduce you to the election of the Riigikogu Board. First, the President of the Riigikogu is elected. The Vice-Chairmen of the Riigikogu are elected at the same time after the election of the Chairman of the Riigikogu. A member of the Riigikogu may appoint a candidate. After the election of the President of the Riigikogu, candidates for the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu shall be appointed. The proposed person must consent to the application. Voting shall be by secret procedure and shall be carried out by means of a ballot paper. Each member of the Riigikogu has one vote in the election of both the Chair and Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. The votes shall be taken publicly as soon as the vote is closed. Objections to the organisation of the vote shall be submitted to the selection panel immediately after the end of the vote and on the outcome of the vote, without delay after the result of the vote has been communicated. The results of the election shall be announced immediately after the possible protests have been examined. A candidate who receives more than half of the valid votes shall be elected Chairman of the Riigikogu. If no candidate receives more than half of the valid votes, an additional round shall be held between the two candidates with the highest votes. In the case of equal votes, lots shall be cast. If there is only one candidate on the list of candidates for the Chairman of the Riigikogu, he will be elected if he receives more votes in favour than against. I will present the voting procedure before the vote is announced. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions about previous talks? There are no questions. Does one of the members of the Riigikogu wish to appoint a candidate for the Chairman of the Riigikogu? Please, Sven Mikser! Please come to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am extremely pleased to present my colleague Eiki Nestor as the candidate for the Chairman of the Riigikogu. He is certainly among us with the richest parliamentary experience. In addition, he proved himself as a firm and determined Chairman of the Riigikogu already in the previous composition of the parliament. I hope he gets all our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U12	Any other suggestions? Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In order for us to actually have the election of the President of the Riigikogu today, I have the honour to present Andres Herkel, an experienced member of the Riigikogu as the candidate for the President of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U14	Any more requests for candidates? No, it's not. Mr Nestor, do you agree to apply for the position of Chairman of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U15	I agree to apply for the position of Chairman of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U16	Please also give your consent in writing! Mr Herkel, do you agree to apply for the position of Chairman of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U17	Thank you. I'm willing to run.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U18	Please also give your consent in writing. Dear Riigikogu! I will close the list of candidates for the Chairman of the Riigikogu. I declare a break for the appointment of candidates for the President of the Riigikogu on ballot papers. I'll give you a signal when the break's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U19	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Riigikogu Election Committee is ready to elect the President of the Riigikogu. Members of the Commission will check the ballot box and seal it with security seals right here in front of you. Allow me to introduce the voting procedure. The Election Committee gives a voting slip to a member of the Riigikogu. Please submit an identity document, i.e. a certificate issued by a member of the Riigikogu, a passport, an identity card or a driving licence, to the Election Commission for a vote slip. A member of the Riigikogu shall sign a ballot paper. The ballot papers shall be filled in in the voting booth. A member of the Riigikogu shall tick a cell with a cross on the ballot paper at the name of the candidate he or she votes for. Voting ballots which bear the name of more than one candidate or which do not bear the name of any candidate shall be deemed invalid. Voting is organised in the lobby next to the Chamber of the Riigikogu. There are tables in the lobby where you can get a ballot paper. After receiving the ballot paper, you will make your decision in the voting booth, fold the ballot paper and go to the voting box where, after the note is stamped, you will personally release the note into the ballot box. If you have accidentally erred or violated the ballot paper and you notice it before the note is put in the ballot box, you have the right to receive a new ballot paper when you return the corrupt note. Any questions? No, it's not. Only members of the electoral body and persons serving the electoral body may be present in the voting room of members of the Riigikogu during the elections. According to § 87 (5) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, members of the Riigikogu have 30 minutes to vote from the beginning of the voting. It's 4:38 now. We'll meet in exactly half an hour. I give a signal of the end of the vote, after which I ask all members of the Riigikogu to gather back in the Chamber. I declare voting for the election of the President of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U20	Dear Riigikogu! I declare the vote closed when the President of the Riigikogu is elected. Please bring the ballot box to the hall! Do the members of the Riigikogu have protests about the organisation of voting? No, it's not. First of all, I would ask the electoral commission to check the ballot box and that security seals on the ballot box have not been violated. I see all the seals are correct. I would ask the members of the electoral commission to start counting votes. [[The election board reads the votes.]] I would ask the Republic Election Commission to read the votes publicly too! Please, Vice-Chairman of the Electoral Commission, Meelis Eerik!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U21	I am now publicly checking whether the initial results correspond to reality. I will read the votes cast by both candidates. Eiki Nestor: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58. [[Let's hear it.]] Andres Herkel: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41. [[Let's hear it.]] There's no record of anything that's wrong. The note is invalid because neither box has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U22	Dear Riigikogu! I announce the results of the vote in the election of the President of the Riigikogu: "The Election Committee of the Republic determined the following figures when counting the votes. The number of members of the Riigikogu included on the list is 101. The number of members of the Riigikogu who received the ballot paper is 100. The number of members of the Riigikogu who participated in the voting is 100. Number of unsuccessful ballot papers just 1. The number of votes cast on the candidates of the President of the Riigikogu: the number of votes cast by Eiki Nestor 58, the number of votes cast by Andres Herkel 41. The Protocol was drawn up on 30 March 2015 at 5.24 p.m. " Signed Alo Heinsalu, President of the Republic Election Commission. Do the members of the Riigikogu have protests about the determination of voting results? No, it's not. In that case, we will finalise the decision of the Republic Election Commission on the results of the elections. I will read it to you: "Decision No 103 of the Election Committee of the Republic of Estonia of 30 March 2015 "Identifying the results of the election of the President of the Riigikogu": pursuant to § 7 (5) and § 82 (1) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, the Election Committee of the Republic decides to appoint Eiki Nestor as the elected Chairman of the Riigikogu. Alo Heinsalu, President of the Election Commission of the Republic.' [[Let's hear it.]] The Riigikogu Election Committee has announced the results of the election of the President of the Riigikogu. I now hand over the management of the sitting of the Riigikogu to the President of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U23	Thank you. Good luck! Our next task is to elect the Vice-Chairmen of the Riigikogu. The election of the Vice-Chairpersons shall in principle be subject to the same procedure as that which we carried out in the election of the Chair. The two candidates who have received the most votes will be vice-chairmen of the Riigikogu. The first vice-chairman shall be the candidate with the highest number of votes and the second candidate with the highest number of votes received as vice-chairman. An additional round of elections shall be organised among the votes gathered equally. Any questions? No, it's not. Now it's time to propose candidates. Does one of the members of the Riigikogu wish to appoint a candidate for the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu? Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U24	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that Jüri Ratas be elected Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Those who had the opportunity to work in the previous or previous compositions have had the opportunity to experience that Jüri Ratas manages the Riigikogu very effectively, does not give preference to opposition or coalition, but takes into account our common reputation, the reputation of the Riigikogu. That's why he's definitely a dignified candidate. I hope you will support his candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U25	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U26	Congratulations to Eiki Nestor! We also found that the management board of the Riigikogu must be strong and decisive, and we present a very good candidate to the management board of the Riigikogu. I'm setting up a nomination for Helir-Valdor Seeder. Which one of us doesn't know him! Please vote and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U27	Any more candidates? No, it's not. Pursuant to § 7 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the names of those who give their consent are entered in the list of candidates. Jüri Ratas, do you agree to apply for the post of Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U28	Thank you. Yes, I am.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U29	I would also like to confirm this in writing. Helir-Valdor Seeder, do you agree to apply for the post of Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U30	Yeah, I agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U31	I would also like to confirm my agreement in writing. Honourable Riigikogu! The candidates have confirmed their agreement. On the basis of the powers conferred on me by the Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, I will close the list of candidates. I also announce a break for the appointment of candidates for Vice-Presidents of the Riigikogu on ballot papers. I'll give you a signal when the break's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U32	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'll call it a break. The Riigikogu Election Committee is ready to elect Vice-Chairmen of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Members of the Commission will check the ballot box and seal it with seals right here in front of you. The Commission has prepared the ballot box. The voting procedure shall be the same as that for the election of the chairman. A member of the Riigikogu shall enter the cross section of the ballot paper at the name of the candidate he or she votes for. Any questions? No, I don't think so. The time allowed for voting is 30 minutes. It's 5:44. The vote shall end at 6.14 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U33	Honourable Riigikogu! I declare the vote closed in the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. Please bring the ballot box to the hall! Do the members of the Riigikogu have protests about the organisation of voting? There are no protests. First of all, please check the voting box and check that the security seals on the voting box have not been violated. I would ask the members of the electoral commission to start counting votes. [[The election board reads the votes.]] I would ask the Republic Election Commission to read the votes publicly too!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U34	I'm going to read the votes I've given you. Jüri Ratas: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42. Helir-Valdor Seeder: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58. There are no bad notes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U35	Honourable Riigikogu! May I have your attention, please? I announce the minutes of the Riigikogu Election Committee on the results of voting in the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu: "The Election Committee of the Republic has determined the following figures when counting the votes. The number of members of the Riigikogu included on the list is 101. The number of members of the Riigikogu who received the ballot paper is 100. The number of members of the Riigikogu who participated in the voting is 100. Number of unsuccessful ballot papers 0. The number of votes cast on the candidates for the vice-presidents of the Riigikogu: Jüri Ratas Any protests? No, it's not. Please complete the decision of the Republic Election Commission. Dear Riigikogu! The Riigikogu Election Committee has decided: "Identifying the results of the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. On the basis of § 7 (6) and § 82 (1) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, the Election Committee of the Republic decides: declare Helir-Valdor Seeder elected as the first Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu and Jüri Ratas as the second Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Alo Heinsalu, President of the Election Commission of the Republic.' [[Let's hear it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the new Bureau has been elected. Please, with your kindly consent, here on my right hand, Helir-Valdor Seeder and on your left hand, Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U36	Honourable Riigikogu! Our tasks today have not yet been completed. To make a statement, please speak to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U37	Honourable Riigikogu Board! Honourable Riigikogu! On behalf of the outgoing government, I congratulate the members of the XIII Riigikogu! I thank the ministers of the outgoing government for serving the Estonian people last year! Pursuant to § 10 (1) (1) of the Government Act, I declare the resignation of the Government of the Republic of Estonia under § 92 (1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U38	Got it. Thank you, Prime Minister. According to § 11 of the Government Act, the government will continue its activities until the new government takes office. Mikhail Stalnukhin has a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Taavi Rõivas and other people who are currently sitting in the government box took the oath of a member of the Riigikogu a few hours ago, or promised that they would be faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia. This means that they are members of the Riigikogu and cannot be ministers. I mean, the only position these people can resign from now is that of a member of the Riigikogu. Since the Constitution precludes the same person from being both a member of the Riigikogu and a member of the government, I want to know whose resignation we have now accepted.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-03-30_U40	The Riigikogu changed that procedure years ago. Now the second Riigikogu has already met in such a way that the members of the outgoing government are also members of the Riigikogu. No one has so far contested its compatibility with constitutional order. If Ambassador Stalnukhin wishes to do so, he will have the opportunity. The first session of the XIII Riigikogu is closed. Please gather the members of the Riigikogu in the lobby on the first floor, where the big stairs are! Closure of the sitting at 6.33 p.m.
