ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-16_U1	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the third working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Speaking chair Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-16_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I am going to refer an inquiry to Mr Jürgen Ligi, Minister for Education and Science. This is a relatively old subject: we want to know what the position of the new minister is regarding the closure of Põltsamaa Vocational School. The Estonian Alexander City School, founded 125 years ago and built on donations, is very much loved at Põltsamaa Vocational School. There are many students, its requirements 100% met. In Põltsamaa, the building was designed, old buildings were restored, a very large and proud internship house was built, and students go from here and there. Now they wanted to renovate the old dormitories, put a lot of money on it, put the projects in place. And then, when all this was done, former Minister Ossinovski said that the job had to be stopped, that there was no need for this school, that it had to be connected to Paide's school. And that was the end of it. So upstairs, there's a question about what's going to happen to this school. The minister also made an order that this year's school would be closed in September. Teachers have already started to gather, especially those who have been most vocal about raising this issue. But maybe the new minister will reconsider. Or was that the strong desire of Mr Jürgen as Minister of Finance already in the previous term?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-16_U3	There's no more calls. On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one inquiry, and the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Let's move on to the messages. Today, following the end of the plenary session, there will be start-up meetings of the following support groups: firstly, Cossack Support Group, convener Viktor Vassilyev; secondly, the Harju and Raplamaa Support Group, convener Andre Sepp. We're looking forward to active participation. A letter has just arrived at the management board of the Riigikogu. Namely, Riigikogu member Igor Gräzin will convene a meeting of the establishment of the Estonian-Israeli parliamentary group after the end of the session, and everyone interested will be welcome there as well. Now we're going to do a presence check. 86 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 15. Good fellows, thank you. The sitting is adjourned. I wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 10.04 a.m.
