ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! This time, the presence control was managed by 62 comms and 39 didn't. In our briefing, Secretary of Defense Sven Mikser participates in the duties of Prime Minister... Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U2	Thank you, Mr President. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia is also required to participate in Question Time. At least in the last three briefings, the Prime Minister has not attended and his deputies have been sent here. At the same time, we know through the media that the Prime Minister will find time to attend all kinds of public events. He has not been seen before Parliament in a long time. Does the President of the Riigikogu know why the Prime Minister avoids members of the Riigikogu in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U3	According to the Act of the Government of the Republic, there is always a prime minister in Estonia, and if the Prime Minister is not present on the territory of the Republic of Estonia, one of the members of the government is a prime minister. Note taken into account. I think the Board of the Riigikogu is trying to convey to the Prime Minister that it would be very nice and that Priit Toobal would be especially grateful if the Prime Minister found a way to attend Question Time on Wednesdays so that the person who is the Prime Minister in the Republic of Estonia would not appear here. No more questions, no more questions, no more questions, no more questions. Today we have the Prime Minister of Defence Sven Mikser, Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse and Minister of Culture Indrek Saar. Last day ten members of the Riigikogu expressed their wish to ask questions. In this context, I will give the registrant the opportunity to submit one additional question and to everyone else together the same amount, or one additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U4	Let's go! The first questioner is Andres Ammas, and the question is for Sven Mikser the Prime Minister's duties. Please, Andres Ammas!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U5	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, in his duties as Prime Minister. My question goes on to answer the questions of my colleague Andres Herkel and Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas on Monday. The Prime Minister was asked whether the refugees whom the European Commission recommends us to accept were standing outside our national immigration quota or whether they should be included in the control figure agreed by law. The Prime Minister was partly indebted to the answer at the time, hopefully in the meantime the government has clarified its position.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U6	Thank you. I am saddened to inform you that, although the Cabinet discussed the attitude of the Republic of Estonia to the European Commission's proposals last night and shaped its position on this matter, we did not specifically discuss the immigration limit. It is, of course, difficult to continue the ongoing discussion with the Prime Minister with me today, but I will remember this question, and we will certainly discuss it with the Prime Minister and other colleagues in the Cabinet, and we will also shape our position. Today, unfortunately, I cannot give you a much more precise answer than Andres Herkel received from the Prime Minister on Monday. At the same time, the Cabinet has made it very clear that we do not support a quota-based approach to receiving refugees in terms of relocation or resettlement. We firmly believe that this must be a voluntary decision by the Member States to accept refugees. But in understanding that Estonia must fulfil its solidarity obligation towards its European Union partners, we are ready to accept refugees to Estonia. In determining the specific burden, it is reasonable to base itself on the share of the Estonian population and the share of the Estonian economy in the total population of the European Union and the total production of the economy. Such burden sharing would be fairer than the solution currently proposed by the Commission, where the rate of resettlement and relocation of refugees proposed to Estonia exceeds the rate offered to countries far beyond us. I will certainly get an answer to your specific question and I will forward it to you myself, or I will ask the Prime Minister if he is willing to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U7	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U8	Thank you for your serious attitude to our question. However, I will try to get some clarification, and if you cannot present the government's common position, then as an experienced foreign politician and an internal politician, you can say your opinion. Do you think this, Mr. Mixer, should fit in our quota or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U9	I believe that, when it comes to a one-off action, a one-off measure by which we are looking for a common European Union solution to a particular crisis that is currently hitting certain countries, particularly Italy and Greece, we could implement this 'one-off' solution outside the overall limit. It is true that there may be a need, once again, to take a different approach to my deeply personal position on the move and to make a distinction as to whether it is specifically the relocation of people already present in the territory of the European Union from Greece and Italy to other countries of the European Union, or whether we are talking about people who, while receiving the right to international protection, are still outside the territory of the European Union. It is certainly possible to approach these two categories differently when setting our own limit values. But, once again, this is not the position of the Government of the Republic. Its design requires further discussion in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U10	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U11	Thank you. Honourable performer! The issue of refugees came to the public via the media in mid-May. You were a member of the previous government, too. Would you perhaps recall when the signals reached the government of the Republic of Estonia, that we will be given quotas, and that Estonia may have to accept more refugees than we have taken into account? Was it New Year's Eve?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U12	When we are talking about the Commission's specific proposal, this is a rather fresh proposal, which will be decided first at the debate table of the Ministers of the Interior and then at the Council. However, the desire of the European Union's Mediterranean Member States to share the migratory burden more jointly between countries has been discussed over a long period of time in various discussion formats and without any specific numerical proposals. Estonia's position has been that such solidarity between Member States may be necessary, but of course the wish and willingness of refugees themselves to move to one Member State or another is also important. It is also important that our capacity corresponds to the number of refugees who have arrived so that we can provide them with proper conditions and services. Now we are talking about specific limits, be it relocation or resettlement. There is certainly a need to take due account of the size of the countries. It is clear that the fact that Estonia, which has always supported voluntary admission, has not, in fact, voluntarily accepted refugees, plays a role in the proposed formula. This is certainly one reason why the number we have been offered is very high given the size and population of our economy. By continuing to support the voluntary reception of refugees, the government considers that the country of Estonia must accept refugees voluntarily; the number of refugees cannot be zero in the future. In that case, we would not fulfil our commitment to solidarity with our European Union partners. So, in opposition to the quota, we must actually be ready to receive refugees fleeing from the atrocities, for example, in the Estonian country.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U13	Thank you, Minister. Please stay within two minutes! Member of the Riigikogu Martin Repinski has given up his opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U14	The next question is the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare, and it is presented by Raivo Põldaru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U15	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! The question is this: is social democratic cultural policy compatible with the fundamentals of cultural policy approved by the Riigikogu until 2020 or are there differences planned here? And if so, which ones?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U16	Thank you for your question. I'm sure there's a difference. If, for example, the cultural policy of social democrats envisages that the wages of cultural workers should rise to the average level in Estonia, then it is very similar to what is stated in the fundamentals of cultural policy until 2020. It sets the target that these salaries should be equal to the minimum average in Estonia by 2020. However, when we look at how the fundamentals of Estonian cultural policy were implemented last year, it has not been at the pace that the Social Democrats would like to see. I'm just thinking about the raise. There are many other points that are at the core of cultural policy as well as in the cultural part of the Socialist electoral programme, but we will, of course, discuss these nuances at the Riigikogu meeting later today in a long and thorough manner within the framework of the respective agenda item. In general, I have not carried out such an analysis as to whether the content of the fundamentals of cultural policy is consistent with the Socialist Election Programme.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U17	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is this: will the Ministry of Culture allocate any funds next year to support local authorities in their activities of interest?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U19	As far as support for interest activities is concerned, I believe that the most important change that has been agreed in the programme of the Government Union or in the coalition agreement will, unfortunately, start not next year, but from 2017. This is to ensure access to recreational education through a national programme. To this end, the country's budgetary strategy foresees EUR 6 million in 2017, which will provide an opportunity to launch this programme from September 2017. In the coming years, in 2018 and 2019, this is planned to be EUR 15 million in both years. What exactly is going to be the mechanism for this distribution of money is not yet clear, but it is in the Government of the Republic's work plan. This mechanism will be developed by the Minister of Culture in cooperation with the Minister of Education and implemented by the Minister of Education in cooperation with the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U20	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U21	The next question is to the Minister of Defence, Sven Mikser, in the role of Prime Minister and is presented by Jaanus Karilaid. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U22	Thank you. Mr Sven Mikser, Minister of Defence, in his duties as Prime Minister. Yesterday, a journalist from Eesti Päevaleht asked a very specific question from the Commander of the Defence Forces. In a real situation, for example in the event of an air attack, Estonia lacks a network of shelters and in fact our population is unprotected. The Commander of the Defence Forces, Terras, surprised the public, claiming that in this case the residents should be taken to the countryside. Please specify this point. Is this thought from Secretary of Defense Mikser, and what is the logistical capacity of our rural areas to implement this idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U23	The Commander of the Defence Forces does not coordinate the answers given to his journalists or at all the content of the interviews with the Minister of Defence. At the same time, it is clear that both the Commander of the Defence Forces and the Minister of Defence are still guided by agreed political directions and principles, both in planning their activities and in expressing their views. As regards the question of whether the Estonian population is unprotected, such "civil defence" issues have been discussed in the Estonian public. Specifically, the shadows were most recently discussed more intensively during the Georgian war in 2008, as I recall. Several successive governments have come to the view when discussing this issue that when developing Estonia's defence capabilities and using Estonian national defence budget money, priority must be given to'real military capability-creating activities', which have a very significant deterrent effect. I am thinking both of strengthening Estonia's independent defence capacity and of creating the infrastructure and other conditions necessary for the allies to stay in Estonia. I do not deny the importance of such "passive" solutions at any time during the outbreak of a real crisis, but it is certainly extremely important to prevent conflict from the point of view of protecting the Estonian population by means of credible and strong deterrence. This has been the priority of the Government of the Republic's activities so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U24	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U25	Thank you. As I understand it, in the event of a real conflict, people must be taken to the country. You shared that view. But how do you answer the question of the Läänemaa local government leaders, why do we still not have a broad-based evacuation training? What legislation obliges this? Who's responsible for this? Why is the local community not involved in civil defence?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U26	When you heard from my reply to the statement that in the event of a conflict or crisis, the population must move from cities to the country, I must point out that something like this has not been said by me in this briefing today. It is true that Estonia's planning of national defence is based on the so-called broad-ground principle of national defence, according to which, in addition to the Defence Forces and the Defence League, civil entities have tasks of both public authorities and private sector. There are very many people who are not directly involved in military defence, but who are performing essential functions for the functioning of the state and who, even during a crisis or military conflict, must remain in their civilian positions and continue to do what is necessary for the functioning of the state in a crisis situation. According to the law, people can also be involved in various emergency work, even though this is not part of their direct civil tasks. The way the civilian population behaves in the event of a crisis or even a military conflict is extremely important. Communicating the entire population on how to deal with various crises, whether they are military or civilian, such as natural disasters or industrial accidents, is part of the government's role. This is dealt with by the Security Commission of the Government of the Republic at the State Chancellery. Information to people, including psychological protection, is undoubtedly essential to guarantee the protection of the population in any crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U27	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U28	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. Okay, we don't have shelters, but I'd be happy if you could give us an overview of what plans we have for supplying the population with food, electricity, water and medical care. Are there any supplies, including fuel? And if so, are these stocks here in Estonia, not in warehouses in Finland or Sweden? Maybe we hope Selver gets everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U29	Thank you. As I said to the previous questioner, Estonia is based on a broad-based national defence model, which means that the various functions essential for national defence are performed by very different government institutions. The Ministry of Defence's area of government is mainly concerned with the planning, development and maintenance of the state's military defence and its military defence capabilities. Other functions of national defence and security importance are performed by a number of other government agencies, as well as private sector companies. As far as stocks of medicines are concerned, for example, this is clearly the area of the Ministry of Social Affairs. However, the functioning of the judiciary is clearly an area of the Ministry of Justice. One of the fundamental principles of broad-based national defence is that most government agencies must perform their important functions, be it peacetime or wartime. Even during the war, the Defence Forces do not take over all the tasks necessary for the functioning of the state. When it comes to supplies, in addition to those belonging to the strategic reserve of the state, Estonia's defence solution also has an important role to play in the implementation of compulsory charges, i.e. involving civil resources, if this is necessary to respond to a military attack or to act in a crisis of any military nature. Estonian legislation took an important step forward when the National Defence Act was passed at the end of the previous Riigikogu. However, a number of the legislation needed to implement it has remained to be dealt with by the current and perhaps some future parliamentary formations, so that, from a legal point of view, the entire state's resources can also be mobilised for an operational response to crises.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U30	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U31	The next question to Minister of Culture Indrek Saare is asked by Ain Lutsepp. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U32	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The fundamentals of cultural policy until 2020 provide for a wider involvement of private capital in the financing of culture. What new financial instruments and models have been planned in cooperation with the private sector? What are tax incentives for sponsors and are there plans to encourage sponsors in the field of cultural funding? I would also like to ask if there will be any legislative changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U33	Thank you for your question. I'd try to go in a little bit like that. In general, we currently have a law that allows us to register with the Estonian Tax and Customs Board an association or an NGO and apply for a tax benefit for it. I think there's over 2,300 of these facilities. But that's definitely not the maximum you can do. When I told you to try to go piece by piece, the subject we've been discussing with the Minister of Finance is actually an old issue. This is a tax exemption for cultural capital, i.e. a situation in which the advantage which applies to these 2300+ institutions would also apply to cultural capital. There's been some confrontation for years. There are certain fears that we will have some kind of money laundering machine, that certain orders will be made through cultural capital. In my opinion, this fear is not adequate when looking at the structure of cultural capital, it is clear that it is certainly not to be afraid of cultural capital. Rather, we could ask all these institutions that are currently benefiting from a tax credit whether we have sufficient control over their use of money.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U34	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U35	I have such an additional question: how best to take into account the right relationship between the economy and culture, so that this human asset, or culture, does not suffer or lose its importance by giving in to the pressure of one-sided market forces, is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U36	I thank you for this question, but I will certainly not be able to answer it here in two minutes. It's a beautiful question, but I think we can spend several hours discussing this subject. Riigikogu Question Time is not the format in which I would be able to give you an exhaustive answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U37	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. A few years ago, museums were largely reorganized and so many municipalities became owners of museums through their foundations or other associations. Now, if these museums, or the organisations or associations associated with them, apply for money within the framework of certain projects, is the Ministry prepared to co-finance them?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U39	I understand that we are talking about euro projects and their co-financing. I think it has always been done, and I see no reason why it should not be done in the future. In order to co-finance European projects, the Ministry of Culture has, as far as I know, always tried to allocate funds from the state budget. If you were to clarify your question, I might be able to answer it more precisely.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U40	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U41	The next question is for the Minister of Defence in the Prime Minister's role, Sven Mikser, and it is presented by Henn Põlluaas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U42	President-in-Office of the Council. Good minister! By approving the new National Defence Development Plan, the Defence League was given the task of organising and managing the militias. The new challenges require additional money, but the funding of the Defence Union in the 2014 budget did not increase to the extent necessary. It is difficult and time-consuming to fulfil the role of the defence community with the tools available. For example, people with planning skills and experience lacked. As the people, infrastructure and budget of the defence community were not transferred to the Defence League, this means building the whole system from scratch. It takes time and money to train the frame, and we don't have time. Are there plans to allocate additional funds to the Defence League this year and increase the budget of the Defence Union next year so that the organisation can fulfil the tasks assigned to it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U43	Thank you, good questioner! The amount of support granted to the Defence League from the Ministry of Defence budget has increased from year to year. Speaking of last year, this amount was 30,5 million euros and an increase of around 4 million euros compared to the previous year. This year's support is 32.6 million, and again growth is significant. But, of course, the needs of the Defence League are greater than those of the Estonian state, and the same goes for the Defence Forces. We operate with limited resources, both for defence and for many other functions essential to the state, and we therefore need to rank our actions very clearly in terms of priorities. We must start with those that are more urgent and continue with those that are less urgent. The Defence League will undoubtedly play an extremely important role in the Estonian national defence solution, both by ensuring various military capabilities in the military structure of the Defence Forces and by performing its defence function. These functions are not prescribed to the Defence League from above, neither by the Defence Forces nor by the Government, but have been developed in every way with the involvement of the Defence League. As far as the budget of the Defence League is concerned, this too will be achieved to a significant extent by setting out the priorities of the Defence Union itself. In addition to the state budget allocation that I mentioned at the beginning of my response, the state finances a number of activities of the Defence League, for example by supporting the acquisition of equipment and training. I understand your concern that this resource is not sufficient, especially in view of the growing membership of the Defence League. But this number of money will certainly increase over time...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U44	Thank you, Minister, your time is up!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U45	... and it will be discussed jointly in the Defence Forces, the Defence League and the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U46	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U47	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The Defence League is a voluntary organisation and operates in some respects in a similar way to a party or church council, where the motivation of people is most important. My personal experience as a defence ally, I have been a member of the Defence League for over 20 years, is that motivation is not so much hampered by the lack of resources as by bureaucracy. Do you admit that not only in the Defence League, but also in the Defence Forces, there is a massive increase in bureaucracy? Can you propose some kind of plan to reduce it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U48	Thank you. All concrete proposals to reduce red tape are welcome. I share your understanding that the functioning of the Defence League, its success and also its attractiveness to the joiners are extremely important. The members of the Defence League have joined the Defence League to express their national defence commitment and to maintain or increase their readiness to participate in military defence, and the bureaucracy burden on dealing with these people must be minimal. But, of course, planners can't get without paper. It is clear that national defence action needs both planning and some reporting. But this should not burden those who are ordinary members of the Defence League. Such bureaucracy must certainly be managed and reduced. Much can be done in this regard by the Defence League itself. However, if further legislative initiatives or regulatory solutions are needed, the Ministry of Defence will be open for this purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U49	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U50	The next question is the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus. Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U51	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Minister of Rural Affairs! There are difficult times in Estonian agriculture. Both the dairy sector and pig farming are in crisis. The Estonian farmer is not competing with other farmers from Estonia but, above all, with other farmers from the countries of the European Union. In addition to direct payments from the European Union, each Member State will be able to pay additional support. For example, in 2015, Latvia has considered it possible to support its farmers with an additional EUR 16.7 million, Lithuania's dairy cows with 18 million euros, and Estonia with zero euros. Does the Government of the Republic see the possibility of paying transitional payments to farmers from the 2016 state budget so that we can compete with our neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U52	Honorable member of the Riigikogu! As you rightly said, the economic situation and market conditions are currently those that do not favour the Estonian farmer. When we are talking about milk production and livestock farming, the average buying-in price for milk has actually fallen throughout the European Union. As regards the activities of the Ministry and the Minister regarding possible grants, we will also discuss the subject of additional grants in negotiations with the Ministry of Finance, and we have already submitted a request to this effect. But as has already been said several times in this Chamber, everything depends on the possibilities of a specific budget each year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U53	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U54	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking about the horse business. For example, in the Netherlands, Belgium and Denmark, this is a very important area of the rural economy. There is still, I think, a long way to go in Estonia to exploit all the potential in this area. One of the former agriculture ministers has said that this is certainly part of the future of the rural economy. I fully agree with him because I believe that this is an area that will help to bring entrepreneurs, including young entrepreneurs, to the country. In the urban environment, it is quite difficult to deal with the horse economy. What is your position and what amounts have you foreseen in 2016 to support this particular area?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U55	The Ministry of Agriculture will certainly consider all the possibilities for wider and more prospective rural development. The horse industry has set out at least a few important courses of action. First of all, the gene pool. In the classical sense of breeding horses, Estonia is in a situation where we can say that the major crisis is over. But that does not mean that we can be extremely calm and should not worry about the future of the tori horse and Estonian horse. The second direction is much more prospective, in the sense that horse breeding is not currently much closer to the commercial and economic key. But we cannot only talk about such a fine way of life, but we must also consider profitability. I'm sure it's a bigger challenge. Now we have an association of the horse economy established in Estonia that is committed to this. At the Ministry, on the one hand, we monitor breeding to preserve a certain gene pool, and on the other, management is the object of interest. The Ministry plans to convene a round table in the near future to discuss this management a little more broadly and certainly in this context also issues related to the Tori horse.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U56	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U57	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Minister of Rural Affairs! In autumn 2014, the official confirmation was that a highly contagious viral disease has reached Estonia, an African swine fever for which we do not have a vaccine. Half of Estonia is already covered with zones where movement is restricted. The disease is spread by wild boars that have not been directly affected by the measures introduced to reduce the number of pigs. On the contrary, the population of feral pigs has grown and therefore farmers in South Estonia are in particular in distress, because pigs are rooting for fields and causing other damage. How does the Government of the Republic intend to compensate for the damage caused by feral pigs, and is this even planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U58	Of course, it is extremely regrettable for farmers to be harmed by the activity of wild animals. A certain part of Estonia has been agreed in which cases this damage will be compensated, in which cases it will not be compensated. As far as classical swine fever is concerned, we are indeed in a situation where we can say that despite all the bad things we have done relatively well. I am thinking here that, if these fires spread in such a way that the damage to the economic activities of large farms is very great, the costs which the state or the undertaking has to bear will be immense. As far as hunting and hunting are concerned, as far as I am concerned, there are no restrictions on hunting these animals, but also in the Committee on Rural Affairs, the question arose as to whether or not the hunting of the brain is allowed and whether it will be compensated. We have a meeting today with a representative of the Veterinary and Food Board, where we will also discuss the same issues that were raised here by a member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U59	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U60	The next question is the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, A few years ago, under the direction of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Culture was under pressure to centralise the accounts, personnel services and many other support services of state institutions and state-owned foundations. Cultural institutions are very diverse, leaders are trying to do the best, and everyone was trying to make it clear that it was not very sensible or effective, but it was carried out. Would you please tell me what efficiency this amendment has achieved?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U62	Thank you for your question. This is a very up-to-date issue, because, as a result of the plans for state reform, it is planned to take the next step in centralising support services. The Ministry of Culture has nine institutions that are affected: the Ministry itself, the Estonian Children's Literature Centre, the People's Culture Centre, the Estonian Savings Library, the Võru Institute, the National Heritage Board, the Estonian History Museum, the Estonian Art Museum and the Estonian National Museum. In essence, however, only public authorities whose form of action is not intended to be changed in the near future are concerned. The plan also includes the transfer of the financial and personnel accounting service, which is currently working at the Ministry of Culture, to the State Support Services Centre. In essence, it does not change anything for the institutions, as the people who serve them should remain the same under the current scheme. What effect did it achieve? No significant cost savings have been achieved in the Ministry of Culture's administration so far. However, it could be said that there has been some benefits: the procedure has been reviewed, what is being done and what procedures are being carried out, as well as additional competences. In any case, however, this process found work that can be made easier, which can be made more effective and can be done in such a way that everything is more law-proof.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U63	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U64	Thank you. Minister, are you aware of how much difficulties and confusion this has led to for the heads of institutions? And do you also know that the authorities are still forced to keep their own so-called second accounts in order to understand at all what amounts are moving and what amounts are not? Information doesn't just move that fast. I'm talking about other accounts that aren't hidden accounts.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U65	Thank you for that clarification. I was also hoping it wouldn't be a double-accounting. But I understand that. Yeah, the transition from one system to another, as far as I've been able to get information about it, was pretty bumpy at first. This is due, inter alia, to the fact that the financial and personnel accounting programme, the abbreviation SAP, did not take into account the fact that the public authorities were actually generating revenue. This was a big surprise for the programme's creators and those who organise these services and took a long time to take into account the fact that many institutions in the Ministry of Culture's administration are earning revenue. Ticket sales couldn't be tied to it. But as far as I know, these problems have now been resolved and I hope that this programme will also be able to provide analytical opportunities, so that the so-called second accounting is no longer necessary. Perhaps the agency will receive the necessary information from it in the usual way and will not have to produce it by hand.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U66	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I am asking a very specific question. During the reorganisation, the Järvamaa Museum was merged with the Foundation Time Centre Wittenstein. In order to develop tourism and maintain and even increase competitiveness, additional investment is sought. Is the Ministry of Culture prepared to cover the required own contribution when the European Structural Funds are requested to implement this reconstruction?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U68	I thank you for this very specific question, but since it is so specific that it needs some additional work, I promise that I will respond in writing in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U69	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U70	The next question is for the Minister of Defence, Sven Mikser, in charge of the Prime Minister's duties. Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U71	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Dear Minister, Speaking of civil defence, you have constantly emphasised today that the country has a broad defence plan and that the population has absolutely no cause for concern. Where can I get acquainted with this broad-based national defence plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U72	Thank you. This is a non-military part of the National Defence Development Plan, the public part of which is available even on the Internet. I'm sure you'll find it on the DOD website. But I can also make sure the Department of Defense forwards this document to your e-mail address. Indeed, this is a wide-ranging defence document, where attention has been paid not only to the military protection of the country but also to the psychological protection of the population, to the continuity of vital services in times of war and peace, and to the many other functions of the government and state, which must be performed in times of peace, crisis and war.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U73	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U74	Thank you. I'm sure the plan is a great thing and it's nice to read. If we look at the behaviour of neighbouring countries, even Finland, then real steps will be taken to ensure a longer period of peace. I am very closely associated with the local government in the municipality of Albu in Järvamaa and I have to say that in local governments in Järvamaa and South Estonia and no one has any idea of what should be done in a war situation with women, children and other civilians. We do not know where there could be shelters with sufficient medical supplies and food supplies. Please explain in more detail which point in the plan will give real guidance to local authorities in order to react quickly and help their own people.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U75	Thank you. The actual exercise of cooperation between the state institutions involved in military defence, in particular the Defence Forces, and the civil structures of the State, on the other hand, is certainly important. As far as the non-military parts of the strategic military defence plan are concerned, I believe that the examination of their content alone does not yet guarantee the readiness of any state or local government institution to meet its obligations. In fact, the integral part of all the exercises of the Defence Forces has been the practice of cooperation with civil structures for quite several years. It is also increasingly an integral part of NATO exercises. It is certainly worth practicing both at national level and at local government level in different crises. It can be said that we are more likely to face a real military conflict than a number of civilian crises, such as natural disasters and industrial disasters. This requires the exercise of all necessary activities, including the cross-use of resources. The ability of the various institutions of state power to work together is achieved only by practicing real-world scenarios. These exercises will certainly reveal the shortcomings of national legislation that need to be addressed. One of the previous questions was about the Defence League. The use of the Defence Union in various crisis situations is also foreseen in cooperation with civil authorities, in particular the structures of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. So we have many legal, resource-related and very practical issues that need to be addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U76	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I remember those times when there were real civil protection shelters in all the counties. How many real shelters are there in Estonia today?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U78	Thank you. I believe that you will receive more detailed information on this from the Minister of the Interior, but there are fewer than in Soviet times. I also answered one previous question on the same subject, and if you were in the Chamber, you may have heard that it has been decided to use national defence budget resources in Estonia mainly to create and maintain real military capabilities, as well as to create the infrastructure necessary to ensure the presence of allies. We're dealing with the so-called joint vessel law. We have a limited amount of resources, and certainly, as the previous questioner said, we need to develop activities related to the extension of the peace period, not just to military action. In order to ensure that the population is protected in the best possible way, precisely because we do not have war but peace, the Ministry of Defence focuses to a very large extent on creating credible deterrence and real defence capabilities in its area of government. Of course, various public protection activities, ranging from psychological and cyber defence to information on how to operate in times of crisis, are essential and part of the overall broad range of defence. The Department of Defense, as has been said, focuses on developing real military capabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U79	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U80	The next question is for the Minister of Defence, Sven Mikser, in charge of the Prime Minister's duties. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U81	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Minister! The Commander of the Defence Forces has said that the structures of the Estonian Defence Forces have received enough pieces of vest. We know that this procurement is entangled, and these pieces of vests are not really as much as necessary. I am interested in how our procurement has been pushed into operation in the current critical international situation in order not only to ensure that people in the armed forces are protected by helmets, flak jackets, flak jackets, knee pads and other means of protecting the person. To what extent are we able to guarantee protection of 45,000 50,000 men with personal protective equipment in the event of a real conflict when the need arises?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U82	Thank you. The development plan for the area of government of the Ministry of Defence for the years 2016 to 2019 says that by 2019, which is also the last year of this Riigikogu's working period, bullet jackets will be equipped with the 1st Infantry Brigade, 2nd Infantry Brigade as well as the Land Defence League, in other words, the Defence League. This procurement started in the first quarter of 2014, with flak jackets acquired 75% of the 1st Infantry Brigade, with a total of 3700 units. In 2015, i.e. this year and next year, the remaining 1st infantry brigade fighters will also be provided with flak jackets. Between 2016 and 2019, missing flak jackets are obtained for the Defence League and in 2019 also for the 2nd Infantry Brigade. In the course of this procurement, we will start with the highest-ready entities and proceed from there as foreseen by the procurement plan and the resource allows. The remaining Defence Structural Units receive flak jackets on an ongoing basis and according to budgetary resources. The feedback from end-users so far has been very positive: the quality of the vest delivered corresponds to what we expected. Perhaps it is worth noting that a complete vest offering somewhat more effective protection is on the Scouts Battalion, while the rest of the structural units have so-called basic equipment. Other personal protective equipment shall also be obtained as planned. Certain simpler equipment, working clothes, safety shoes, hearing protection and vision protections, are mainly provided by the Defence Forces' structural units themselves and there are no faults.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U83	Thank you, Minister. There'll be more questions. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U84	Thank you, President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I still wonder if the procurement is so extensive that even in the event of mobilization, we will be able to provide defence equipment for all professionals who come to the warfield.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U85	Thank you. Of course, according to your wording, conscripts - young men and girls who are invited to serve in the military service - will be provided with the necessary equipment according to the supply tables. During the military service, they are military training, the reserve is considered and the defence forces will become defensive after the end of the military service. As has been said, we have begun to supply personal protective equipment from the 1st Infantry Brigade, and we are moving on to the militia and the 2nd Infantry Brigade. In addition to flak jackets, helmet procurement has also been launched: 2500 helmets in the first half of this year; 2,500 helmets in the second half of this year. We'll start supplying them with the 1st Infantry Brigade. Then, in 2016 to 2019, helmets will receive ground protection, i.e. the Defence League and the rest of the structural units on a rolling basis according to resource planning. Yes, of course, the personal protective equipment of the Defence Forces is essential to ensure their survival in a real military conflict. I fully agree with you on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U86	The final question of Question Time will be asked by Jaak Madison. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U87	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Dear Minister, I would like to begin by pointing out that you could answer the questioners directly. Secondly, the plan is a great thing and it seems that by 2019 it will be better than it is today. Today, however, we are in a security situation where it is reported every other day that the Baltic Sea is crawling with Russian submarines, and border violations are a daily phenomenon. Finland sends out letters that have been sent out in one situation or another. But we are talking about the development plan for the next five or six years. Have you not considered it more appropriate to speed up this procurement in order to be ready to implement this plan in one or two years? Perhaps you should apply for additional money from the budget for this purpose at the expense of other expenditures?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U88	Thank you. As early as last year, the Government of the Republic allocated additional resources to ensure the presence of allies on Estonian soil. These amounts are in addition to the previously agreed 2% of GDP spent on the military defence of the country through the Ministry of Defence budget. We will continue this approach this year, and I expect that in the years to come. Of course, if necessary, it will be possible to redefine budget money according to priorities, and in some major capacity developments we have done so. One example is the third generation of anti-tank systems, which we have brought ahead of the previously planned timetable. So, no doubt, such relocations are possible. The decision to significantly increase the proportion of military defence in the state budget definitely requires the support of a majority in Parliament. If so, this is possible in the budgetary planning process. At the same time, as I have already said in response to a number of previous questions, in order to improve preparedness to deal with crises, the state's resources, the taxpayer's contribution in many other areas of life, are needed. For example, in times of crisis or war, the health system is also extremely important, as well as electricity and water supply, infrastructure and public finances must function. I understand the desire of fresh Members to do everything at once, but when planning to use the available resources, we must be responsible and look at the whole country as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U89	I will conclude on this issue. Question Time is over, it ended at 2.05 p.m. sharp. Thank you, ministers.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U90	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Is there a desire to hand over drafts or inquiries? Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U91	Mr President of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Ten members of the Centre Party Group have an inquiry to the Minister of Culture Indrek Saare. This is about covering the unexpected expenditure of the sub-unions. During the last days of May, Estonian men's volleyball team met to ensure access to the final tournament of the European Volleyball Championship this autumn. Access to the title competitions is a great achievement for the team, but to the alliance it means unexpected expenses. The Secretary-General of the Estonian Volleyball Association Tarvi Pürn said that the budget of the Union this year is EUR 900000 without additional aid and they are missing about EUR 200000 to participate in the final tournament in the autumn. This situation has not arisen for the first time. In order to prepare for the 2009 final tournament, the state did not find any extra money for the volleyball team, but two years later the same undertaking was supported with 1.5 million kroons, or 100000 euros. The basketball team, which has entered the European Championship finals this autumn, is also in financial difficulty. The basketball team asked the Gambling Tax Board for EUR 300000 but received EUR 200000 for preparation. However, this whole issue is broader and concerns the state's support for sporting events. For example, our southern neighbour Latvia has organised a wide variety of title competitions in recent years: Ice Hockey-MM, this autumn there will be a basketball-EM, to which 20,000 visitors from Estonia alone will travel. Over 20,000 people have bought a ticket. How...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U92	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U93	...the state should support it? We expect the Minister to answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U94	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U95	Ladies and gentlemen, We have an anniversary at the end of this week. After the anniversary of the deportation, the victims of the property reform of the forced tenants mark another anniversary, namely the anniversary of their expulsion from their homes. And this deportation was carried out by our beloved Republic of Estonia itself in the course of the ownership reform. About 100,000 people have been affected by this reform. Soon 25 years have passed since the beginning of the reform, and so far no government of the Republic of Estonia has thought about making up for, compensating, paying out the costs incurred by tenants who have been evicted from former owners' houses. The state did not compensate them for anything 10, 15 or 20 years ago and has not done so to this day. These people had to buy an expensive new home at market price, and their old home was mostly inhabited by the descendants of former owners. The Union of Estonian Tenants considers this unfair. I, too, find it unjust that these people have not been helped. We're handing over another question. It's about property reform, I don't know if it's the 110th or 120th turning to the government. The tenants ask you to be nice and compensate for their suffering or at least apologize to the people who lost their homes during the unjust property reform. Their apartments, once officially obtained by the law of that time, were simply taken away, people being figuratively raised to the street or to the tree. We want our young Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas to think about how to deal with these people and what to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U96	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U97	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to hand over to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas a hearing from Priit Toobali, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev, Siret Kotka, Mikhail Korbi, Toomas Vitsuti, Mailis Repsi, Märt Sults, Kersti Sarapuu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi, Lauri Laas, Andrei Novikov, Dmitri Dmitriyev, Tarmo Tamme, Olga Ivanova, Martin Repinski and Erki Savisaare, members of the Centre Party Group. The question relates to the issue of administrative reform. The government coalition has identified state reform as one of its main objectives, including administrative reform concerning local government. The Prime Minister has assumed responsibility for and political leadership of the reform. In order to do this better, a new position of Minister of Public Administration has been created within the government. The meeting of the Government of the Republic on 11 May discussed the timing of the launch and implementation of the reform. Commenting on this issue to journalists, new Minister Arto Aas said that the draft laws on administrative reform must be adopted in the Riigikogu by the summer of next year. The municipalities will then have the opportunity to join voluntarily before the next local elections in 2017, i.e. 2017. After the elections, on the basis of the criteria developed, the government proposes to join, i.e. the compulsory merger of those municipalities that have not voluntarily put their bread in one of the lockers by then. The Minister of State Administration mentioned two general criteria that a managing and good-service municipality should meet: at least half a thousand to 5000 inhabitants and the existence of an upper secondary school. Journalists made simple arithmetic calculations and stated that there will be 50 municipalities in Estonia after the administrative reform. In the course of the state reform, the government coalition also plans to mobilise a total of 3,200 public administration employees over a period of four years, but so far it has not become clear how much in public administration and how much in local governments. In all of this, the questioners have four questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U98	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U99	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, The Conservative People's Party Group wishes to hand over a draft decision of the Riigikogu concerning immigration. At its meeting yesterday, our government confirmed that it was not in favour of the compulsory quota mechanism proposed by the European Commission. Unfortunately, the credibility of the current government is very low in the eyes of both the public and our group. The problem is not only that we do not believe what we are told, because we have been whipped repeatedly and on a number of issues. The problem is also that this is a long-term and strategic topic for Estonia's national survival, and here the sovereign parliament of the sovereign state must take a clear position. In the draft decision, we see that the Riigikogu does not authorise the Government of the Republic to undertake commitments to relocate refugees, immigrants and beneficiaries of international protection to the territory of the Republic of Estonia. The Riigikogu will in future oblige the Government of the Republic to bring all agreements relating to refugees and immigration before the Riigikogu for discussion and taking a position. So for a very simple reason, we're handing over the bill. I would very much like every member of the Riigikogu to press the button on this issue, showing his position, rather than squirming on the grounds that I am not at all in favour of it, but what I am left with. Secondly, the Estonian public has never given permission to do the sort of thing that we are currently talking about. This was not authorised in the referendum on accession to the European Union. I would like to ask all those people who are now promoting solidarity in the European Union, what is this great general good that is outweighing the threat to the Estonian nation, language and culture. And it will be put at risk if Estonia accepts that the decision on immigration will shift away from the Estonian Parliament to Brussels.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U100	Thank you, Martin Helme! Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U101	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Together with the 12 political groups, I will present an inquiry to the Minister for the Interior, Hanno Pevkur, on the topic 'Estonia's willingness to act on the international agenda on migration in Europe', which is likely to concern us all and many. In December 2014, ministers of the European Union adopted the conclusions of the Council of the European Union entitled 'Migrations in the development cooperation of the European Union'. The conclusions highlighted the need to help partner countries improve their capacity to deal with migrants and to contribute to increasing awareness of migration issues: return, criminal networks, human trafficking, human rights. The positive aspects of migration were highlighted. Many immigrated people help to bring knowledge, technology and resources to their home countries, as well as contribute to the development of the country of destination by setting up businesses, etc. In May this year, the European Commission published a Communication entitled "A European Agenda on Migration', which addresses both the root causes of migration and the fight against conflicts and poverty, as well as the strengthening of measures to prevent irregular migration. The Communication also addresses support for legal and controlled migration. The Estonian Government must be guided by the positions of our country approved in December 2014 in the Cabinet of Government and in the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu in the same month at the December session of the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union. In this regard, we have three questions for the Minister of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U102	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U103	Honourable Mr. Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu! Thirteen members of the Estonian Central Party Group have an inquiry to the Minister of Enterprise Urve Palole. This concerns the possibility or the need for the government to initiate regional economic pilot projects. 'Dear Mrs. Urve Palo! The Government of the Republic has at its disposal, including its offices, inspections and other institutions, a great deal of material (data, studies, analyses, projects, proposals, opinions, etc.) on Estonian natural resources, economic capacity and regional assumptions. Based on the generality, financial opportunities and international recognition managed by the Government of the Republic, we believe that it is the highest level of executive power that should initiate the development of regional eco-social economic pilot projects. Since entrepreneurship is the basis for our national development and knowing you, Madam Minister, as a serious promoter in this area, we have three questions. ' Subsequent signatures. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U104	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U105	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I will report an inquiry on behalf of the Central Party Group. The inquiry is for Rannar Vassilyev, Minister for Health and Labour, and the topic is once again the reform of working capacity. On 14 May, the Social Committee discussed the current course and problems of the labour capacity reform, as well as the possible timetable for implementation. Ministers Margus Tsahkna and Rannar Vassilyev justified the need to postpone some of the activities and implementation of the law. By the way, it became clear, among other things, that the work capacity reform, which was adopted here a few months ago with great effort and was thoroughly debated, needs to be amended to 60%, as it has substantive shortcomings and technical problems. At the same time, Tsahkna stressed that municipalities must offer both old and new additional services to people with loss of working capacity. At the same time, we know that there should be common standards, common rules, so that these services are available of the same quality throughout Estonia. Helmen Kütt, a member of the Social Affairs Committee, explained that the standards had already been developed during his appointment as minister. On the same subject, I also asked a written question. The answer came that indeed, the work capacity reform plan needs to be changed very much. In this regard, we have a number of questions. In addition, a new draft Social Welfare Act has been prepared. Of course, we have many other questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U106	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U107	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Together with ten of my group's partners, I will present an inquiry to the Minister for Social Protection, Margus Tsahkna, on the 'Pute Point' television programme. The coming of this show was completely revolutionary In ten seasons, 300 programmes have been broadcast, which have raised acute problems in the Estonian social system and society as a whole. The programme manager Kaidor Kahar and the author and editor Anne Lill have done a commendable job with their team. This programme has tried, searched and implemented various solutions, has conducted interagency round tables and meetings, and has developed diagrams to help in one situation or another. For three years now, the Puute Point has its own monthly magazine with a print of 10,000. The 'Pute Point' came with proper euro money from Estonian Television and the Estonian Television found it important and necessary, and when the euro money ran out, he contributed and financed it until mid-May 2015. Also lost the support of the Gambling Tax Board. The ERR could no longer support a programme that discussed the problems of people with special needs for ten years. I've been a busy watcher of this show myself on Sunday mornings. A very emotional, thought - provoking, and cordial show is about people living and working alongside all of us. We have asked the Minister four practical questions in our inquiry. I believe the Minister will also resolve this situation, as he was able to do with the Narva orphanage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U108	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U109	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will present an inquiry on the organisation of the judicial system, and of course this will go to Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice. This is one of the cases where you come across the issue of questioning when a voter asks you about something. At first, you just don't believe how it's possible, but you're investigating and checking and you see that it's really possible. The story is that the Estonian judicial system consists of four county courts, two administrative courts, two circuit courts and the Supreme Court. County courts and administrative courts are courts of first instance, circuit courts are appeal courts, and the Supreme Court is located in Tartu, the Court of Cassation and also the Court of Constitutional Supervision. § 148 of the Constitution states that the judicial system consists of county and city courts and administrative courts. § 149 of the Constitution states that county and city courts and administrative courts are courts of first instance. In practice, we know that there are laws whose 100% compliance is not mandatory, but the Constitution is certainly not one of them. If the Constitution provides for the Estonian judicial system, the system must comply fully with the Constitution. At the same time, § 7 of the Courts Act states that the judicial authorities are the County Court, the Administrative Court, the District Court and the Supreme Court. Thus, the Constitution provides for a judicial system, including city courts, that is not in the Courts Act. In this context, five members of the Riigikogu ask some questions to the Minister of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U110	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U111	Dear Chairman, Honourable Riigikogu! At the beginning of May, I was in trouble in Newcastle. Turns out I was out of some hotel with my stolen wallets, my pants gone. Friends, please send the money! Two weeks later, my daughter was in India, and such a letter came to me: I'm naked, sneakers gone, send the money. Last night our honorable rocker and punk Trubetsky were also in Newcastle, and he too was stolen. Anyone who can make contact, I'm in trouble, send the money! I thought that I was in a slightly different category than them, that I was a member of the Riigikogu, that I couldn't mess with my Gmail like that, hijack the account and steal it, that a great state and cyber defence would protect me. But take your finger! Now comes the question. The cyber police have been working on this thing for a month, but I haven't even been called for a month and asked, "Märt, how's your job?" Nobody called. An inquiry is for Hanno Pevkur. Let's ask how his computer is and how he guarantees and proves to me, who has been well milked three times with his computer, that e-elections are safe. I've been advised to put an app on my phone that generates some kind of code. That way you can secure your computer. I'm sorry for what I need this for!? We live in a safe country! But this is also why Estonia is the only country in the world with e-elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U112	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U113	Mr President of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, There are all kinds of diseases in the world that are heavier, easier, but not one of them is a good disease. Everything is basically bad diseases and the most disgusting thing you're working on. In the case of illness, treatment is provided, medicines are provided that are compensated by the health insurance fund, but there are also diseases that are overlooked and that are left completely unhelpful. On behalf of myself and ten of my group partners, I am submitting an inquiry to the Minister for Health and Labour, Rannar Vassilyev, in relation to a disease such as that of cöliakia, or gluten intolerance. 10% of the Estonian population suffers from this disease and people cannot tolerate wheat, rye, oats and barley. There is no cure for this disease. The only cure is eating special foods. There are quite few sales in Estonia and they cost about ten times as much as normal food. These people can't eat bread, macaroni, can't eat meatloaf because there's flour in it. A gluten-free loaf of bread costs ten times as much as a common loaf of bread. But it is not compensated for people, even though there are opportunities. We are asking why people with this disease have been left uncompensated. Why is gluten-free food not included in the list of medicines, although this is entirely possible? Why is it not included in the list of medical devices so that their cost can be compensated? Without that food, they'd starve. So this kind of question from Vassilyev to Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U114	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U115	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to hand over a draft law entitled "Corporate Association Dispute Resolution Act." The idea of the draft is to ease the life of housing associations. In fact, different questions and problems arise in the day-to-day work of housing associations, whether, let's say, because of the unscrupulous management or not because of very law-abiding residents. Very often these disputes lead to one or the other party being forced to go to court. In order to resolve matters more easily, faster and more transparently, we propose that committees be set up at local level to deal with internal disputes between housing associations. Of course, such a committee must include lawyers who are specialists in their field and who conduct proceedings based on the law and decide who is right. And after these decisions are implemented, they are compulsory to comply. In the course of the draft procedure, all nuances relating to this subject can certainly be properly discussed and debated. That's the idea. There seems to be a great need for such committees. Thank you and good luck.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U116	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U117	Ladies and gentlemen, I am honoured to present an inquiry to Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur, regarding the compliance of the security measures of the U.S. Embassy with Estonian law. In May this year, news was published in the press that referred to surveillance activities carried out by the U.S. Embassy and coordinated with the Ministry of the Interior in Tallinn. According to the experts' preliminary opinion, according to the information published in Postimees, the surveillance unit of the US embassy was probably involved in surveillance activities, the compliance with Estonian law was called into question by the press. The postman's article revealed that when a person is on a suspicious list, he has been photographed and filmed, and his moves have been "logged." Attorney Mare Tannberg, a professor of penal law at the University of Tartu, admitted that in such a situation, the question may be raised as to whether this activity is legitimate or not. If a person monitors another person for the purpose of collecting data, this is a private pursuit. According to the same opinion, the member of the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee, former Director General of the Defence Police Board Raivo Aeg, was also a member of the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee. With regard to this fact, we have three questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U118	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U119	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to address an inquiry to the Minister of State Administration, Arto Asa. This concerns the state of public procurement in universities. The point is that many years ago, Count Mellin presented an interesting description, which is hard to believe that it does not deal with modern public procurement. True, he wrote it not in our century, nor in the previous, but in the 18th century. He explained that if someone is to be distributed or put into the distribution of foreign money and is not well instructed, checks, checks and checks must be put in place in addition to the shareer. Something similar has now happened to universities and public procurement. When we talk to people from universities about remoteness, they are very academic, solid and modest, and they quietly make critical remarks. When the formal meeting is over, you will hear how statesmen, Riigikogu, heads of state are raised and investigated, who have been able to create rules and regulations that are so far off-living that public procurement can be carried out in such a way that they fit into the organic life of universities and are not a bureaucratic obstacle, there is quite a lot of art. It has been achieved that new workers must be recruited who can combine and subtract procurement and make it in line with our bureaucratic rules. It is on these points that we have prepared a question to the Minister for Public Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U120	George Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U121	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good fellows! I have a very good and very substantive question to give you, signed by 18 members of the Riigikogu. The questioning concerns a very important, I would say, subject in Estonian society, which is related to our daily life with regard to the reform of local governments and local governments. After all, we all know that municipalities are the closest to people and their concerns and are the most operational in solving their problems. The heirs would like to ask Mr Arto Asa a total of four questions, and I would like to introduce some of these questions to you. We are, of course, addressing the Minister on the basis of § 139 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. One question, for example, is when the government coalition will restore the municipal revenue base and local road funding to pre-crisis levels, and in what form and to what extent compensation will be given to the local governments for the lost income in the intervening years. There are a lot of local government leaders in this hall, and they have certainly all sensed how bad it has been precisely this loss of revenue base and a strong reduction in local road funding. One question concerns what additional measures the government coalition intends to take to increase the financial autonomy of local authorities. With this, I have briefly presented the content of the inquiry and also some of the questions, and I will now discuss the inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U122	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U123	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I would like to pass on an inquiry to Urmas Reinsalu, the Minister of Justice, and this concerns the impact of the reduction in the election age. In fact, some time ago, § 156 (2) of the Constitution was amended, according to which voting rights were given to young people at least 16 years of age in municipal elections. This could mean an additional 14000 to 15000 voters. The inclusion of young people in society's development is to be welcomed, but the amendment of this law has created a legal gap, which is that, in addition to the so-called ordinary young people, the right to vote has automatically been granted to young people aged 16 to 17 who suffer from mental illness, as limited working capacity is generally not assessed at this age. Prior to the adoption of the Act, an analysis was carried out at the Ministry of Justice, which showed that the reduction of the electoral age does not result in a change in the rights or obligations of others. However, the analysis failed to take into account the fact that under the General Part of the Civil Code Act a person will have full capacity to reach 18 years of age. This means that from this age onwards, the person's incapacity will generally be determined. Before that, the power is automatically restricted. This situation raises legitimate questions, such as the right of young people suffering from mental illness to vote in municipal elections. In this regard, we have the following questions for Urmas Reinsalu: 'How will people aged 16 to 17 who, because of mental illness, insanity or other mental disorder, are permanently unable to understand or manage their actions, be able to exercise their right to vote? How many people can be affected by the amendment in this context and what does the state intend to do about it? ' And there are three more questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U124	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U125	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Before the elections, there was a great deal of talk about the fact that huge markets for Estonian agricultural products are about to open up in Japan, though in China, I do not know where in the third, fourth, fifth world. Unfortunately, we see that all these promises have proved to be essentially fatal. In this respect, all seven of our group members have, as we have here, an inquiry to the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus. We want to know whether the government is ready to find a resource to immediately restore the national support of the Estonian agricultural sector, i.e. top-up. Secondly, we want to know whether the government has considered and is ready to launch a support purchase system, a series of support purchases, to support our farmers producing agricultural products. We believe that, in a situation where the Russian market has been closed to Estonian agricultural products for an indefinite period and our competitiveness on other markets has proved inadequate for diplomatic or other reasons, such steps are extremely necessary to prevent the gradual decline of our agriculture and rural areas at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U126	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U127	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On 13 March, I asked the Minister for the Environment about the area of the cadastral units formed during the land reform. The comprehensive response described the formation of cadastral units and the determination of the area, but basically the questions I asked were not answered. The reply gives the impression that both the Ministry of the Environment and the Land Administration do not have an overview of the land reform carried out, and the Land Board sees its role as a writing pigeon rather than as a substantive organiser of the reform. The reply is operated by approximate percentages and it is argued that until now it is not known where the boundaries of the property formed by the plan and the map material are and how large these properties really are. It can be concluded that it is not yet known how much land the state has transferred to the legitimate subjects in the course of the land reform. The reply shows that the state has charged the legitimate subjects when undertaking the land reform, has promised to form cadastral units on the basis of plan and map material, and has subsequently taken the view that the size and boundaries of the already formed cadastral units can be changed by cadastrim surveying in nature. This leads to legal confusion, which in turn can lead to light-handed handling of state-owned assets. Since we do not believe that the above positions are consistent with the idea or purpose of land reform, 13 members of the Central Party Group are asking the Minister to answer the questions asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U128	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U129	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! On behalf of the members of the Group's Central Party Group, I am going to refer an inquiry to Mr Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. The inquiry concerns the situation on the main Estonian roads. Estonia ranks 64th in the World Economic Forum's Road Quality Scoreboard as of 2014. We are on the same level as Georgia, Gambia, Dominican Republic and Laos. We are close behind Kenya and Ghana. At the same time, Lithuania is 34th. Once again, our place is 64. Tallinn-Tartu, Tallinn-Narva-Tallinn-Pärnu highway is predominantly 1 + 1 lane, with which these highways have long been in the way of their ever-increasing traffic load. Although cars have become better and safer, the speed limit and the condition of the roads still allow the largest highways in Estonia to travel as quickly as it was possible 40 years ago using the production of the USSR automotive industry. For example, if you stay behind a Polish or Lithuanian motor vehicle column on the Pärnu highway in Tallinn, and given that there are numerous sections on this road, where the speed is already limited to 50 or 70 kilometres per hour, the average speed may be 75 to 80 kilometres per hour when you travel from Tallinn to Pärnu. The situation is no better when driving from Tallinn to Narva or Tartu. Such traffic opportunities certainly do not meet today's standards on the three largest highways in Estonia. In this regard, we have a number of questions for Kristen Michal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U130	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U131	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I am honored to present an inquiry to Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi. This concerns the state of national science and development perspectives in our country. The point is that the last Riigikogu formations and government coalitions have paid quite a lot of attention to educational and scientific issues, but have done so very selectively. In real cases, if anything was examined, such as the situation of doctoral students, humanities (e.g. history or Estonian language) has been deleted from the list of specialties, on the grounds that this does not concern the development of the Estonian economy. At the same time, much has been said about national sciences recently, also in the context of the migration processes that have become active. Several representatives of the government have spoken of the immediate beginning of return migration, people being brought back to their homeland by love for their country, their people, their culture and their history. At the same time, history itself is quite struggling with its own research. The point is that the peculiarity of Estonian history is that a huge part of our written memory is stored not in our own archives, but in the archives of other countries and in order to access them, our scientists have no money. Research in the field of history has been carried out quite poorly and economically at all. It is as if this area is suddenly still living in the age of tablets and cripples. Without promoting national sciences, political discussion on foreign policy history cannot be developed. Because of all these concerns, we have prepared an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Science, Jürgen Ligi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U132	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U133	Ladies and gentlemen, It is relatively difficult for members of the current government to ask questions. You ask one question, but they're talking about something else. Today we asked Secretary of Defense Sven Mikser about the shelters, he was talking about the development plans. If we've asked before about anti-aircraft capabilities, the answer is something else. When we talk about the weakness of Estonian communication systems from the point of view of defence capabilities, we talk about something else. When we ask about developing our own defence capabilities, we talk about something else. But we haven't given up hope yet. Today's inquiry focuses on directing and supporting the Estonian defence industry. I wonder how the Secretary of Defense will answer those questions. In most countries, the state orders the defence industry, on the one hand, to equip the defence forces with the necessary equipment and, on the other hand, to direct the industry to develop the necessary solutions to ensure better protection for the country. Such input is unfortunately lacking in Estonia by the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces. This has led to a situation where our defence industry does not have a vision and mission to increase the defence capabilities of the Estonian state. Although measures have been developed in Estonia to support the development of the defence industry, the decline has still begun. This is a situation where the Ministry of Defence is unable to contribute to the direction and development of an independent defence industry. We have three questions. What is the situation of Estonia's independent defence industry? What are the objectives of the Ministry of Defence to enhance the capabilities of the defence industry? Have all three coalition partners reached an agreement on this issue and when was the last time this issue was discussed jointly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U134	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U135	Ladies and gentlemen, This inquiry is also addressed to Minister of State Administration Arto Aasa and concerns the financial autonomy of the local government. The 20 delegates of the Centre Party Group want to inherit the tasks of the state and local authorities, in addition to the former Jüri Ratas. The clear distribution, which is the responsibilities of local government units and which belongs to the state, is not yet. Professor Sulev Mäeltseman's review of the "CLRAE precept by the Government of the Republic during the period 26.10.2010 to 01.09.2011" has estimated that this task is only partially fulfilled. During the analysis carried out on the basis of the instructions of the Ministry of Interior, only a few tasks were found in the four ministries' domain in summer 2010, which can be considered to be public tasks carried out by the municipalities. However, the results of the analysis carried out by the Ministry of the Interior indicate that these conclusions may not be conclusive, as further functions of the State which are carried out by the municipalities may appear and it is recommended to approach these cases on a case-by-case basis. That is why we have also asked the question: how do you intend to comply with the decision of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court of 16 March 2010 on the definition and financing of the constitutional duties and other tasks of local governments, including those imposed by state authority? When will the duties of local governments be laid down and specified at law level? It was just one paragraph of the whole question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U136	Please, Dmitri Dmitriev!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U137	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to refer the question to the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the 14 members of the Central Party Group. Environmental problems in Ida-Virumaa have attracted great attention over time. Air quality is particularly a concern in Ida-Viru County, and we also have land use and water supply problems associated with mines. The Environmental Charges Act partially compensates for this negative impact on local authorities. According to the current compensation model, local authorities are charged, for example, with part of the specific use of water and environmental charges for mineral extraction. The ambient air quality of industrial areas is an important indicator of the environmental status of Ida-Viru County. According to Statistics Estonia and the Environmental Information Centre, the amount of pollutants emitted into the air in this county accounts for the vast majority of all air pollution in Estonia, reaching 46 to 97% depending on the pollutant. The biggest influence on air quality is the oil shale and chemical industry, often located in the territory of the local government, where no real mineral extraction takes place. Thus, the budgets of local governments do not receive the environmental fee money paid by the local industrial company to the state budget. This is the case where local authorities, despite their limited financial capacity, must offset the negative impact of industry on the environment and improve the socio-economic situation. In a particularly critical situation there are municipalities that have not received any resource fees for a long time, such as Kiviõli, Kohtla-Järve and Jõhvi. We have a number of questions for the Minister for the Environment; we are also waiting for answers to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U138	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U139	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It's not every day I get on this remote control twice, but there's a reason for it today. On the one hand, I welcome this, on the other hand, not very much, because there are many concerns and problems that we are talking about. This time, I want to pass on an inquiry on behalf of 18 members of the Central Party Group. The inquiry is directed at the Minister of Enterprise Urve Palo and it concerns tourism. We have discussed a great deal in recent times on the subject of where our tourism is going and what will become of our tourism if we raise VAT to 20 or 14%. In fact, the picture that prevails in the field of tourism is already depressing. When comparing the first months of this year to the first months of previous years, we see that the number of foreign visitors in Estonia has fallen by 9%. If it is claimed that fewer tourists arrive here only from Russia, this is not really the case. The number of Finnish tourists has fallen by 11% and, unfortunately, the number of people in other countries is very low in our home country. There are certainly many external reasons for this, but it seems to me that, to a large extent, this is also a work done by the Ministry. That is why we have five questions for the Minister. I hope that the Minister will take urgent steps to reinvigorate our tourism sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U140	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U141	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I will present an inquiry to Mr Reinsalu, Minister for Justice. This concerns the possibility of directly electing the President in Estonia. In Estonian society, power and people are increasingly distant. Direct election of the President by the people can change this situation. The results of surveys carried out in Estonia at different times show clearly that most people would like to choose the president directly. Direct election of the President would give the people a very clear and concrete decision-making power and it would balance Estonia's policy. The debate on the direct election of the President has been ongoing since the drafting of the current Constitution. This idea has been supported by various political parties and many members of the Riigikogu throughout the ages. In 1995, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposed to the Government of the Republic to convene a Committee on Legal Expertise on the Constitution, which would thoroughly analyse the need to amend the Constitution in connection with the establishment of the President's direct election. The Commission worked for almost two years, resulting in an analysis of external experts, on the one hand, and a report by our eminent state-rights scientists, on the other. In general, external experts suggested that Estonia consider the possibility of direct electing the President. This could improve both the debate and the contacts between the people and the President. The draft law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia to change the procedure for electing the President of the Republic has been in the Riigikogu 12 times since 1993, but has not found support. In all of this, we are asking four questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U142	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U143	Colleagues! In the big hunch of renewal, Minister Aaviksoo lost away the grades of teachers: junior teacher, teacher... I'm sorry, still a youth teacher, a teacher, a senior teacher and a teacher-method behind them were indexed things and different salary numbers. I mean, there were apprentices and masters. Aaviksoo lost it, equated everything to one bar, claiming that it was difficult to promote teaching and honor. The masters were taken away from their salaries and added to the apprentices, and the masters began training apprentices on their wages, as much as they did. So this is the case: what is logical and what is sustainable? This also led to questions about the restoration of teachers' ability to pursue careers, pay increases due to a higher coefficient, open hours, show off, be very good. It's not enough that you're a good teacher that students hug and remember in 25 years. It's a very strong recognition, but it doesn't give me anything. It gives you the strength to want, you can take a lot, but it's not what a person wants. I'd like some food, and I'd like some honor. I'd like to be a senior teacher. I'd like to be a Methodist teacher. Minister, please restore teachers' career prospects! This is the question of 18 signatures from the Centre Party Group to Mr Near, the Minister for Education and Science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U144	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U145	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! An internal audit has been carried out in Britain to find out how much GDP is spent on the maintenance of the institutions and agencies deriving from the European Union. That's a pretty scary figure: almost 7%. At the same time, at least our group has not known, nor has it been heard in the public about the cost in Estonia. As we have a new ministry, we have increased the bureaucratic machine with the aim of reducing public spending, we are submitting an inquiry to the new minister, the Minister of Public Administration, Arto Asa. We want to find out how much Estonia has to spend in order to support all these agencies, secretaries in local governments, institutions that manage bureaucracy from the European Union. As we know, bureaucracy has a very bad habit of mercilessly expanding. Consequently, seven members of the EKRE Group ask three questions. Has an internal audit been carried out to find out how much Estonia's budget is spent on the maintenance of institutions and posts arising from the European Union? Secondly, is this expenditure justified and is it seen as an opportunity to reduce expenditure in this area? And thirdly, if you see any possibilities to reduce, we ask you to let us know at what cost and to what extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U146	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U147	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, who are still in this Chamber! I have an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Science, Jürgen Ligi, regarding our new adult education law. The development of this new law was due to the need to improve and complement the legal base for adult training, to clarify the requirements for access to continuing training, to organise the performance, disclosure, etc. of adult training. Reading this law makes you feel like they wanted the best, but it turns out as usual. The objective of better regulation has not been achieved. There is a significant simplification in the issue of training permits: in essence, any person or any body with a computer can quickly register as a trainer. There is no control over whether this registrant is also competent in the field where he or she allows someone to be trained. The only condition is that the company has to have a website. This is certainly not enough in the current situation. As a result, together with 16 members of the Riigikogu, I will present an inquiry in which we want to find out how it is planned to ensure the quality of continuing training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U148	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U149	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! My inquiry is directed at Urmas Kruus, the Minister for Rural Affairs. This is because farmers are concerned about increasing the excise duty rate on special-marked diesel. As you all know, farmers are going through a very difficult time right now. And there are several reasons. The biggest and most compelling reason is that the price of milk has fallen almost twice, or one and a half times, to be precise. And there will be no price increase in the near future. The Japanese market, which we all looked forward to and hoped for, will not increase the price, as practice has shown. In the best case, it will maintain the price at the same level as it is now. But for a lot of farms, that price means a loss. In this respect, I am going to question the question, where I ask the Minister to clarify whether he thinks it is the right time to increase the excise duty on the fuel used by farmers and create another additional one for all the problems they already have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U150	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U151	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of ten members of the Riigikogu, I want to submit an inquiry to the President of Eesti Pank, Ardo Hansson. There are some issues where ministers find themselves in trouble with answers and recommend that they address people who are more competent than themselves. This also happened on Monday when Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas answered the question before the Riigikogu, who said that he knew little about the euro area central banks' asset purchase programme and that the central bank manager probably knows more. By putting the listeners on the subject, I say that since 9 March, the European Central Bank has launched public sector purchasing programmes in the euro area, during which all euro area central banks will buy up bonds until September next year. In addition to the euro area as a whole, 1.1 trillion euros of bonds are purchased and Estonia has also started its own purchases. In March, 120 million euros of bonds were purchased, 119 million in April and 129,8 million euros in May. The euro area has set itself the objective that debt securities purchased from secondary markets should be able to boost the economic growth of these countries. Estonia, however, is in a situation where we do not have our own bonds. As a result, we ask the Governor of Eesti Pank which state bonds Eesti Pank has purchased so far and which conditions the bonds must satisfy so that Eesti Pank would choose them and invest in them. Finally, the more philosophical question is that if the aim is to revive the economy, but Estonia does not have this possibility by buying its bonds, whether our economy will recover less as a result and whether the euro-centred programme will not have the same positive effect here in Estonia as in neighbouring countries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U152	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U153	Ladies and gentlemen, I am honored to present an inquiry to Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu. This concerns the Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act, which will be in force in 2018. Under this new law, many new housing associations will be created, and ministerial officials will also call it a forced collection. In practice, people who come into contact with a housing cooperative have found hubs in the new law that should be considered and amended. Before making a final decision, we would like to reopen the discussion on the Housing and Housing Association Act in order to find answers to the questions raised and then decide on the procedure to be followed. Consequently, we have the following questions for the Minister. The law states that if the general meeting of the owners is indecisive, the management board shall convene a new general meeting with the same agenda, which shall be valid regardless of the number of participants. Why is it a new meeting within the meaning of the law, not a reunion, and why is this meeting not related to the quorum? The law stipulates that the owner of the dwelling must, inter alia, keep in the item of special property such temperature and humidity as would ensure the preservation of the property of the co-ownership and the use of other items of special property for their purpose and without excessive cost. Why is there a new principle here and has not been used to 'preserve temperature and humidity according to the standards laid down for living quarters'? We still have a number of questions and we hope that the Minister will answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U154	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U155	Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry, signed by 18 members of the Central Party Group. The inquiry is directed at the Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi. Not because of the tantrum, but for the sake of children's health, we would like to bring back to this big hall the subject of school lunches. In our inquiry, we write that according to Statistics Estonia, 20.2% of children lived in relative poverty in Estonia in 2013 and 10.1% of children lived in absolute poverty. Therefore, for many Estonian children, a school lunch is the only warm food once a day. The aim of the school lunch allowance is to provide children with high-quality and healthy food and to enable them to concentrate on their studies without feeling empty stomachs. School lunch support is essential to smoothing socio-economic inequalities. We have four questions that we would like to hear from the Minister. The first is how the government plans to improve the situation and provide students with a high-quality school lunch in a situation where the rise in food prices has been 19% higher since 2010 than the increase in school allowance. The question arises as to where the government has been and why this situation has been allowed to occur. We would like to know that if the school lunch grant has lasted the same five years, whether the government is even planning to increase it. If so, when and in what order? There are two more questions, and I believe that when the Minister gets here, he will answer them all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U156	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U157	Hello! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to introduce you to the Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi. We are interested in how investments in general education are planned for the next period. If we look at the years 2014 to 20.20, we will see that it is planned to allocate very substantial amounts to general education out of the investment in education. A total of EUR 109 million is planned for the organisation of the upper secondary school network alone. However, if we look at the number of people entering upper secondary and vocational education, unfortunately, they have decreased every year and reached record low levels. In the 2012/13 academic year, 8100 young people started to study in the 10th grade, but only 7,000 young people started to study in 2014/15. Of course, it is not appropriate to compare the figures 10 years ago, which were almost double compared to the current ones. Consequently, we have questions for the Minister of Education and Research. First of all, we ask how investment in vocational education has justified itself so far. Are groups in vocational schools that receive more money better filled, and what are the plans in general education schools? Given the very limited number of young people going there, is it not a fear that investments can go to school buildings that will no longer be used as schools after a while? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U158	I have adopted two drafts and 31 inquiries. Incoming check, please! 56 members of the Riigikogu are present, 45 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U159	We will continue the first reading of the draft law on supplementing the Holidays and Holidays Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. Last day, we were in the middle of this at the moment when the initiators of the bill... [[Interjection.]] What's wrong? [[Interjection.]] Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U160	Thank you, Mr President. I and I also know that several of my colleagues have a agenda on the table, which says that the first item in the session of Wednesday 10 June is the third reading of the draft Act on Insurance Activities (8 SE), initiated by the Government of the Republic, where the majority of the Riigikogu is required. However, a few items were not yet discussed on the agenda yesterday. Would it be possible to share the valid agenda for members of the Riigikogu, because what we have is no longer quite right?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U161	If it's hard for the people to move on where we left off yesterday, I'm gonna ask Priit Toobal to bring this agenda. [[???Vahelehüüe: 'Mulle ka!'???]] Heimar Leng's having a hard time too. Who's having a hard time? Kadri Samson does. It is difficult for the Centre Party Group to understand where we will continue. I would ask the helpers to present a new agenda to the Central Party Group. But now let's keep reading bill number four for the first time. Priit Toobal, please come and answer questions from members of the Riigikogu! Ivi Eenmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Priit Toobal! Yesterday you presented an excellent overview of Wikipedia's data on Estonian national holidays, but you missed one of the most important things. In introducing your amendment to the law, you did not explain to us how it was in its day that the great Friday, which is the day of sorrow and mourning throughout the world, was chosen for Easter, because that day Jesus Christ was crucified, and the Estonian people were deprived of the second Easter. My question to you is: how did it happen that Estonia was selected for the big Friday and one holiday, but not the first and the second holiday, which is the festival of joy all over the world?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U163	Dear questioner, first of all, thank you very much for your compliment on yesterday's report. I'm gonna start by saying in my report that I talked at length about national holidays on the basis of Wikipedia. As we know, our draft concerns public holidays, not national holidays. There is a national holiday in Estonia, it is 24 February or Independence Day, the anniversary of the Republic of Estonia. There are 11 public holidays, and that's what I talked about in my report yesterday. Our bill No 4 speaks of the fact that the existing 11 public holidays are not a national holiday! An additional holiday, the second Easter holiday, could be added to the list. However, since the question concerned this issue more broadly, I am happy to respond further to this question. As for the whole "complex " holiday related to the crucifixion of Jesus and then the resurrection, you are absolutely right. When you look at the great Friday, the quiet Saturday, as well as the first and second Easter, the first of them, the great Friday, is indeed the day of mourning in the Christian calendar. It is not common to celebrate and celebrate that day. If you look at Europe at large, the big Friday is a public holiday from 28 countries in the European Union, and therefore a holiday in 15 countries. The first Easter holiday is 19 countries and the second Easter holiday is the most festive day, the 25 countries of the European Union have a public holiday and a free day. That's what our bill says: it's a free day in 25 countries, but in three countries, Estonia, Malta and Portugal, unfortunately, this day is not a public holiday and there is no free day. How has this happened, that Estonia has chosen a large Friday and the first Easter when it made the Holidays Act, leaving the second Easter holiday not included, I am somewhat the wrong answer to this question. I am the second member of Parliament. The Centre Party Group will present this draft as of 2011. This law, which we intend to amend, i.e. the Holidays and Holidays Act, was passed in the 1990s and these discussions are impossible to find on the current website of the Riigikogu verbatim. I tried to do that, knowing the question ahead of me, but I owe you an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U164	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U165	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Yesterday's hearing ended exactly at the scheduled time and you missed the report. A lot of people were missing from the hall. Maybe you'd go over the basics anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U166	Thank you, good penguin. I'm happy to do this because, really, the hearing was over yesterday, I didn't take advantage of my colleagues' time and I left half my report on the table. Now I'd like to continue. In a broad sense, then, the proposal put forward by the Centre Party on 6 April this year is to add another to the public holiday list, which currently has 11 holidays. Today's 11 public holidays, which give the day off, are New Year's Day, Big Friday, Easter's first holiday, Spring Day, Pentecost's first holiday, Victory Day, Midsummer Day, Re-independence Day, Christmas Eve and Christmas Day and the first and second Christmas Day. Last on that list was Christmas Eve, proposed by the Central Party in 2005. Estonian public holidays mostly coincide with public holidays established by other European Union countries. One difference, however, is the second Easter holiday, which is a public holiday and a holiday in most European Union countries. This is the case, for example, in Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Spain, Ireland, Italy, Greece, Cyprus, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Poland, France, Sweden, Romania, Germany, Slovakia, Finland, Slovenia, Denmark, the Czech Republic, Great Britain and Hungary. As an exception, I repeat, there are only three countries of the European Union where Easter Day is not a public holiday. These are Estonia, Malta and Portugal. Outside the European Union, Norway, where Easter holidays are held for almost a week, is a good example, thus somewhat longer than in other European countries. They also have a quiet Saturday public holiday. Upon the entry into force of the bill, the number of public holidays in Estonia would increase to 12. Ascension holidays are part of the so-called "movement dates', they start according to the moon stages: they start on the first full month Sunday after the spring solstice and can therefore be between 23 March and 26 April. This year was the second Sunday of Easter on April 6, the same day that the Central Party Group presented this bill to the proceedings. The addition of Easter holidays to public holidays is understandable, since in countries with Christian traditions there is a great Friday, a quiet Saturday, and both Easter holidays are important emotional, festive, and family times. It is undoubtedly a religious festival. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, we do not have a state church, but traditional religious holidays are nevertheless celebrated. I note that there are currently seven of the 11 public holidays in Estonia with religious backgrounds. These are the great Friday, the first Sunday of Easter, the first festival of Pentecost, the Christmas Eve, the first and second Christmas Day, and partly the Midsummer Day named after John the Baptist. Easter is the most important church year for Christians. At the same time, they are part of the whole that these holidays together with the smaller ones make up. They are also the saddest and most joyful holidays. As I answered Ivi Eenmaa, the great Friday is indeed the day of Jesus'crucifixion and death, and both Easter holidays are related to his resurrection and celebration. The Estonian Council of Churches has also given its position on this draft. He did it in 2011. The Council of Churches held that they basically supported the inclusion of Easter in the list of public holidays. These festivals are on the one hand Christian, the resurrection from Christ's death. On the other hand, they relate to the birth of spring, the awakening of nature from winter. We think that they are compatible with each other, and so in Estonia, where not all people have a religious background, this should be acceptable to everyone. Easter also has a clear place in folk culture. In Estonia they have a variety of popular names, some I already read yesterday: Easter, Passover, spring holidays, swing holidays. Thus, when the law enters into force, the second Easter holiday will become a public holiday in Estonia, as in most countries of the European Union. This simplifies the situation of companies which, because of their work, have to communicate daily with parent companies and subsidiaries located in other countries. In the Nordic countries and Latvia and Lithuania, with whom the Estonian economy is most closely connected, the second holiday of Easter is a public holiday and a holiday. Upon adoption of the law, the situation where the second holiday is a normal working day in Estonia will disappear, but there will be no interbank transfers, as the European Central Bank has a holiday day. As a result, the work of many companies on Easter Sundays is now being hindered. The bill reduces the length of the average working week in Estonia, which was 41.1 hours in 2008, according to a study by the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions. The average working week in the European Union was 40.4 hours at the same time. Some recent data also: According to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), an average of 1868 hours per employee were worked in Estonia in 2013. More than this was done in Europe only in Greece, Hungary and Poland. In contrast, Finland had 1666 hours, Sweden had 1607 hours and Germany had only 1388 hours. The OECD average was 1770 hours. Thus, the Estonian person works 98 hours more than the OECD average per year. The people of Estonia work 5% more than the Americans, 12% more than the British and Finns, and as much as 16% more than the Swedes. It is now possible to give people an additional day of rest in Estonia without the average working week becoming shorter than the OECD and also the European Union average. During the debate on the draft, a debate arose in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the impact on the economy of adding an additional public holiday. I trust the Minister for Finance, who was in office in 2011, who stated in his position: 'Although the impact of the additional public holiday on the entire state budget and the economy is not significant, it is worth considering that the cost of some state budget institutions would increase. For example, there would be a part of the work of the Police and Border Guard Board, who would earn double remuneration for the work. ' I repeat that the Minister of Finance considers that the financial impact on the economy and the state budget would not be significant. And if, for example, an employee of the PB or the Rescue Board made a double payment on that day, no one in this hall would possibly be harmed. I would add that several current public holidays are moving holidays and public holidays are falling into the week in some years, in the second year, to the weekend. In this way, it would not make sense to draw very specific amounts in the current context. For example, this year, eight public holidays and thus the statutory holidays fall on working days, in the week, and three on holidays. The next year and the following year, however, five public holidays will fall on working days and six on weekends. The Ministry of Finance does not make such accounts for public holidays during the week or during the holidays when it prepares the annual state budget, nor does it make longer forecasts. However, if such calculations are necessary, of course the Centre Party Group, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will agree to do so between the first and second readings. One thing that no doubt still needs clarification is what argument both the Government of the Republic and the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs do not consider it necessary to deal with the draft further. Kalle Laanet, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, said through a press release: 'Estonia lacks an important cultural background or tradition related to Easter, which would justify its celebration as a public holiday. ' I cannot agree in any way with the chairman of the committee and also with the representative of the Government of the Republic, who in the committee reflected the position of the government with exactly the same argument. I believe that such a statement was quite offensive to people who had consistency in their hearts and also to those who believed in them. First, according to the census, there are over 300,000 Christians in Estonia for whom Easter is very important, including the second Easter holiday. Second, traditionality. In the years of Estonia's first statehood, among other things, the public holiday was the second holiday of Easter. In addition, there was the third holiday of Easter. We are not currently seeking to add a third holiday to the list of public holidays. Here perhaps it would be appropriate to mention the dates that were then held as public holidays. According to the 1937 calendar, the national holidays were the following dates: New Year's New Year, January 1st, the third, March 29th, March 30th, Spring Day, May 1st, May 6th, the first, Pentecost 16th, May 17th, Victory Day, June 23rd, March 24th, Punishment Day, October 31st, Easter Day, December 21st, December 25th, Christmas Day 2nd, December 26th and December 28th. In order for the situation to be described in detail, and for my colleague Laanet, the chairman of the committee, and for his party, I must also tell you that there are other opinions on this issue within the Reform Party. The Riigikogu committees and this hall are not the only place where the possible conversion of Easter into a public holiday has been discussed. At the beginning of 2014, the joint committee of the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church and Western Rural Government proposed to the Government of the Republic to announce the second Easter holiday in spring as a public holiday. On 18 December, on the proposal of the Dean of the Western Dean of the Church, Tiit Salumäe, the Commission discussed the possible announcement of the second holiday of Easter as a public holiday and proposed that the relevant address be made to the government. The Commission found that the second holiday of Easter was an important church holiday, which was also valued outside the church. On Friday, in accordance with tradition, public celebrations have been abandoned because it is the day of Christ's crucifixion, followed by a quiet Saturday. The first and second festivals of the Easter will give people a better opportunity to celebrate this event with joy and dignity, as well as to strengthen community relations and allow families to spend more time together, the Commission wrote at the time in its address to the government. The Commission stressed that since Easter Day's second holiday is a free day in most European countries without banking operations or European Union institutions, Estonia, being part of the European Union, could follow the example of other Member States.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U167	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U168	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U169	I'm not finished yet!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U170	I thought that answer was over. I'm sure the draft waitress will be able to say everything she has to say in the rest of the answers. Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U171	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! There is no state church in Estonia, while according to the constitution the state and the church are divorced. In real life, the state and the church work very closely together. Is it really right to claim that the state and the church are divorced?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U172	Thank you, dear questioner. First of all, to make it clear to the Speaker of Parliament that I had not yet finished answering this question, but I see that there are a number of questions, and I believe that I can give all of them enough exhaustive answers, and I can also convey all the thoughts I have on this draft. It is true that according to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the state and the church are divorced. At the same time, according to § 40 of the Constitution, everyone has freedom of conscience, religion and thought, membership in churches and religious associations is free. There really is no state church in Estonia. This does not mean, however, that the state and the church are essentially divorced, as you pointed out in your question. During another regime, the state and the church were really divorced, and so was stated in the Constitution of the Estonian SSR. The opposite is the case today: the country and the church have common interests and common outputs in different areas of life. After all, almost a third of the Estonian population belong to churches, as I said. It refers to the Christian people who belong to the various confessions that form the Estonian Council of Churches. In its views, the church is based on 2000-year historical practice and is also one of the oldest forms of community of citizens. At the same time, the church has been one of the largest communities in history. The Estonian Church is subject to the Non-Profit Association Act, but we also have the Law of Churches and Congregations as a special law. This is the same for political parties: they are largely subject to the law on non-profit organisations, but there is also a separate law on political parties. This shows that the state, parliament and governments have considered it necessary to mention the association that brings together such a large community in a separate law, which means that church activities have been recognised even in the form of a law. Churches and congregations have been active in Estonia for a thousand years. The development of society created a serious interest and the need for churches to act together in the interests of Estonian society, which led to the creation of the Estonian Council of Churches more than 20 years ago. As I said, the Estonian Council of Churches unites eight churches, two congregations and an alliance with nearly 400000 members, which forms a cross section of different nationalities living in Estonia. There are several areas where the state and church cooperate, and often even more church and local authorities. An example is the social sector, where certain tasks have been assigned through the third sector to direct local government to the churches, which help the poorest people to cope. There is also close cooperation with churches at local and national level in the field of education. There are a lot of church-related festivals in the field of culture, whether organised by local governments or public authorities. Church buildings have become excellent concert venues and churches themselves increasingly offer their own buildings for festivals that have been renovated. Many churches also have a renovated organ. So I find that the Estonian church and state are essentially not divorceable. I believe that this will only take life forward and give more scope for dealing with education and social issues, culture and why not other areas in general.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U173	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U174	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I'll ask you more. If I look at the politics of the Estonian state, the Estonian state's policy is completely exceptional, especially in comparison with that of its neighbours and also compared to other countries of the European Union. The corporate tax system is exceptional. According to the bond program, we buy bonds, but we don't have any bonds. The top-up is not applied to farmers; the rest of Europe is implemented. Excise policy is completely different and incomprehensible from that of neighbours. Then the system of support for sport and e-elections are probably the only ones in the world where they are implemented in this form. Coming now to public holidays, do you think, is this a matter of spite that, if, for example, in Latvia, Lithuania and Finland, this second holiday is being applied as a public holiday, Estonia should somehow stand out by the distinction? Does this distinction lead to more investment in the country or to more tourists with their money? What's the point, or what's the resistance? Is it because the Centre Party or you're gonna file this bill? Should someone else do it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U175	Thank you. You read out a long line of questions. Yes, the main economic cooperation we have with our immediate neighbours is that of our neighbours in the north and south, or Finland, Sweden, Latvia and Lithuania. When you look at the whole of the European Union, and also at Europe in general, not only in the countries of the European Union, in all speeches, and especially in the festive speeches, both the President and the members of the government, including the Prime Minister, will like to talk about the fact that we are part of Europe. We belong to Europe and want to belong to the European cultural space, the European business area, the European economic area. However, if you look at the two months that this Parliament has been together, acted together, and dealt with the drafts, we can see that the opposite is true. This current draft is just one example of this whole sequence, but quite an example. If today it is the 25 of the 28 EU Member States that this day is a day of rest, a public holiday, people do not work, there are no operations between banks, the staff of the central bank also hold the second Easter in church and celebrate it in other ways, then Estonia will swim in the opposite direction. Says no, we don't need a public holiday like this. And if you take into account OECD data, how many people in Estonia are doing their work, I have just read them out so as to rule out the argument that our people are doing little work and are not producing income for the Estonian state, then it is clear that this justification is also absolutely not. It seems to me that the current government coalition in particular has begun to build such a, I don't know, desert oasis. Well, that's not true, because an oasis is a place where life goes and it's good to live. The government has started to build in some way its opposite. For example, in the field of tourism, VAT increases in Latvia and Lithuania remain lower. Go on, excise math. I very much hope that, once we've held these night sittings here, many coalition ambassadors have had a lot of time to think about, and this bill, perhaps, will remain in the process. With all these steps, we would move closer to Europe, with the same small decision that we are going to make an additional public holiday, which is very European, very characteristic of the European cultural space. I very much hope that this draft will find its way to the final proceedings and will be passed as a law. A pretty vivid situation arose in 2011, when we dealt with a draft of the same content in this Chamber. The waitress was me, too. Igor Gräzin then read out a series of countries where this Easter is not a public holiday. He named India, Iraq and Afghanistan. Perhaps the wish of the current government coalition is to belong to this cultural space, where Easter is not a public holiday like in Europe and where economic development is imagined differently than in the European economic space. Maybe that's the answer to your question. Kid's Mouth Gräzin may have told us what the Reform Party is really thinking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U176	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U177	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, It seems to me that there are not enough Christians among the members of the Riigikogu to proclaim another Christian holiday as a public holiday. This is also clearly demonstrated by the number of delegates present in the Chamber. Do you think that the important celebrations of the folk calendar, such as the Tri King's Day, the Bone Pain Day, or the Women's Day, would receive more support in this composition?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U178	Thank you. If you look at Estonia's national holiday and public holidays and national holidays and flag days at all, the list is quite long. If you don't mind, I'll take this opportunity and report it to you. As I mentioned, there is only one national holiday in Estonia and this is February 24, Independence Day. The state holiday, which is also covered by this bill, is 11: New Year's Day, Big Friday, Easter's first holiday, Spring Day, Pentecost's first holiday, Victory Day, Midsummer Day, Re-independence Day, Christmas Eve, First Christmas Day, Second Christmas Day. We still have national dates. These are the same anniversary of the Tartu Peace Treaty, Mother's Day, the Estonian flag day, the day of mourning, the day of remembrance for the victims of communism and Nazism, the day of grandparents, the day of tribalism, the day of resistance, the day of spirit, Father's Day and the day of rebirth. Flag days are the commemoration day of those who fought in the War of Independence, the anniversary of the Tartu Peace Treaty, the Independence Day, the Mother's Day, the Mother's Day, the European Day, the Estonian flag day, the day of mourning, the Victory Day, the Midsummer Day, etc. Some of the names on these lists overlap. But I'm trying to answer the question directly. In this sense, the situation in the Riigikogu Chamber is not so bad that everyone would definitely oppose this proposal. Let us see how one or another party or group has behaved during the various proceedings on this draft. In my presentation, I had a brief opportunity to say that some members of the Reform Party had supported this draft. I also said that the Western County Government took up this topic with the Western Dean of the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Estonia, and then the Western Governor, Innar Mäesalu, was still a member of the Reform Party. He dealt with the subject quite constantly. The second, who very clearly supported the inclusion of the second Easter in the list of public holidays in the previous composition, was Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Constitutional Commission at the time. He was very good Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and, as far as I know, he also raised this issue several times in the Reform Party Group. The draft was in his drawer, and when I once again asked for it to be put on the Commission's agenda, Rait Maruste went back to the Reform Party Group next week and proposed this. That is at least how he told us in the committee that he would propose that the Reform Party Group support this draft. The press commented on the subject of Maruste as follows: 'I personally think it should be done because in other parts of Europe it is a public holiday, the day when bank transfers stand, there is no international trade, people are resting. For this reason, we have no reason to heroically swim against the current. In addition, a long weekend in the long spring before the summer vacation would be appropriate, so personally, I am in favour. On the one hand, it is necessary to work to raise GDP, but it is still half-cocked, partly self-deception. " That's what Rait Maruse said. If you look at the behaviour and views of social democrats, they already found in 2012 that there could be more public holidays in Estonia. Let me quote: 'The number of public holidays in Estonia is quite low compared to other European countries, so it is worth discussing the idea of adding another date to the list,' said Vadim Belobrovtsev, Member of the Board of the Social Democratic Party to Delfi. The Social Democrats have launched several drafts aimed at giving an extra holiday for the weekend in the event of a public holiday. Logically, it could be the following Monday. Unfortunately, the Reform Party and the IRL Government, which led the country at that time, did not support such proposals, although in some years the current regulation could immediately take away several days of rest from people. For example, last year quite a few holidays fell. In the opinion of the Socialists, the introduction of an extra holiday day in this situation would be very appropriate, as people would be able to spend more time with their families and engage in sport. In their opinion, this would certainly reduce stress and have a positive impact on public health. At the same time, this approach would make public and public holidays more important in the eyes of the people, making them closer and more understandable. Absolutely true! Urmas Reinsalu, former Chairman of the IRL, has also said that the Group must discuss the Centre Party's draft and consider both rational arguments concerning the division of working time and emotional arguments, or the sacred meaning of the people. Reinsalu said that this is certainly an issue in which we in Parliament are able to overcome the passions of day-to-day politics and party politics. I would like to remind you that almost ten years ago, the Fatherland Association proposed that the Song Festival be a public holiday in Estonia. In my opinion, this is also a completely worth discussing and considering. I do not know the position of the Estonian Free Party and the Estonian Conservative People's Party on declaring Easter the second holiday as a public holiday because their representative in the committee was not present on the day of the vote. As this draft will also be voted on today, we will soon see both the position of the EKRE and the position of the Free Party on this matter. There are not many coalition ambassadors in the Chamber today, they do not want to listen to this bill, but I very much hope that this does not mean that they will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U179	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U180	Mr. Chairman! Very honorable Priit Toobal! Do you think that the amount of working-free days associated with church holidays could show the people's religion and the state's level of ecclesiasticalism or not? Perhaps church holidays free of work are simply a measure of spiritual and spiritual refreshment for the people and a measure of state prosperity? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U181	Thank you for this very philosophical and substantive question. As I said, Estonia combines different churches, different confessions, the Estonian Council of Churches. The members of the Estonian Council of Churches belong to different figures and, of course, the number varies from 300000 to 400000 people in different years. So many of us consider ourselves a religious person and therefore a member of the Estonian Council of Churches. I believe that adding a public holiday of one religious background to the list of public holidays will cause people to think more about what is the content of one or the other holiday, why one or the other holiday, whether religiously or not of such a religious background, has been declared the public holiday that is behind it. If you look again at how many people there are in Estonia who consider themselves to be believers, the latest figures are from the 2011 population and housing census. There hasn't been a more recent countdown. According to 2011 data, 320872 people from 15-year-olds and older Estonians acknowledge a strong belief, or 29% of the population asserts themselves to be religiously related, says Statistics Estonia. This percentage has not changed since the previous census in 2000. The decline is 2%, but it is certainly linked to a slight decrease in population numbers, as well as to the fact that in 2000, when the census was carried out, this issue was in the'mandatory response list'. In 2011, however, the answer was voluntary; people were not required to answer. That's a little different. In essence, in the last ten years between the two censuses, the religion in Estonia has not changed. During the period between the censuses, the number of religious flows represented in Estonia has increased: in 2011 there were 90 followers. However, 54% of 15-year-olds and older people regard no religion as their own. Compared to the 2000 census, there were more people who did not want to answer religious questions. But again, the methodology was somewhat different. In the 2011 census, the most common Orthodox religion among the 15-year-old and older population was 16%, the Lutheran religion was acknowledged by 10%, and it is the second highest. Representatives of different peoples living in Estonia follow their traditional religion. Lutheranism is the most common among Estonians, which is recognised by 14% of Estonians aged 15 years and older. Russians who live here and speak Russian as their native language are, of course, Orthodox what they consider their own religion to be. There are three times more believers living in urban settlements in Estonia than in rural settlements, and this is mainly related to the national composition of the population. It is quite interesting to have statistics on how we find ourselves in different counties. I am not going to stop at this for so long, because this statistics is a rather long list and a rather long sequence of figures. But as for the public holidays that are currently written in the Estonian law, the last one was the Christmas Eve, which was added on the proposal of the Central Party Group in 2005, which is also a public holiday with a clear religious background. Seven of the eleven are religious holidays, which, in my opinion, shows that the Estonian people and the Estonian legislator in their different configurations have been quite religious. Of course I'm happy for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U182	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U183	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Priit! I'm the heathen myself. I'm the earthworm. I'm hugging the trees. But I certainly support Christian holidays. Do you not think that maybe the government is afraid of looking inside Christian holidays and people because Christians have the Ten Commandments that they live by, but the government does not want to live by these Ten Commandments? Maybe that's what this opposition is about.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U184	Thank you. That's for sure. I am as unbaptized as you are and not a member of any congregation, but that does not mean that I do not respect the Ten Commandments. The first three of these commands are clearly related to religion and belief in God, but the last seven are for all. Who among us should not observe, for example, the command that you should honor your mother and father or that you should not kill, that you should not commit adultery, that you should not steal, that you should give false testimony, that you should covet the wife of your neighbor. I think that these are the principles according to which every person in Estonia could behave, whether he belongs to the 400000 who consider themselves to be believers and belong to some convention, and thus to the Council of Churches, or not to you and I, who are both unbaptized. As regards the particular draft that the Central Party Group has put into proceedings, it is about Easter Day's second holiday. As I said many times in my report, there are actually two aspects of this holiday. One undoubtedly relates to the religious background of this celebration, which is the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. But the other one is very clearly linked to folk culture. So those in this Chamber who consider themselves to be believers and are members of a congregation could vote in favour of the bill because this holiday has a facet that concerns the matter that matters to them. However, for those who are like me and you without baptizing or belonging to any congregation, it might be worthwhile that this festival also plays a role in folk culture: it is the holidays of spring, Passover, Easter. Who of us who are not members of the congregation does not paint or coagulate eggs these days? In this regard, all sorts of things are believed, for example, that if I cobble an egg with my colleague and my egg stays healthy, I will get some sort of wish. There's some kind of humorous table-jumping in North Estonia. I'm from South Estonia, and I had never heard of this custom, but when I prepared this material, it was quite interesting to read that there is such a custom of table jumping. South Estonia has very different customs. Once again, this holiday has two very different sides, one religious, the other connected with folk culture. So, in my opinion, no national delegation should be reluctant to vote in favour of this bill, not even those who do not belong to any congregation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U185	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U186	Thank you to the manager. Good Priit Toobal! Each draft has direct and indirect objectives. For example, we are discussing a draft increase in excise duties on fuel. This is a cluster bill with only one objective: to increase revenue from the Treasury. The emotional value of the current draft is very high in both religious, cultural and family policy. There are many positive aspects. The year is 2015, this bill has been quite a long attempt to push through. Why, however, have we not reached a consensus in Parliament? What are the main arguments against both the Reform Party and the IRL?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U187	Thank you. This is, of course, more of a question to Mr Kuke, who is a rapporteur for the Commission and who also represents the position of the coalition and the government on this matter. If I have this chance, I'm sure I'll ask my seat Martin Kuke. As far as I am concerned so far, why has the government, whether it is composed of two partners, the Reform Party and the IRL, or three partners, if the Reform Party and the IRL have been accompanied by Social Democrats, been opposed, I suppose that is why, even if I do not have the damage that the draft has come from the opposition, from the wrong side of the hall, from the wrong party, which is not part of the Government Union. On the right number of times, all parliamentary parties in this Chamber have been called upon not to pursue such a policy. In particular, as freshcomers, the representatives of the Free Party have proposed to the government union and to everyone at all that one could break the rocky idea that if the draft does not come from the government coalition, the government does not come from any member of the government department, then it does not deserve a debate, not to mention adopting it as a law. On this point, I fully agree with the Free Party. Such initiatives, which are obviously over day politics and over party policy issues, could be properly discussed and adopted if they are mature enough. If the draft is of great emotional value, a very large number of people in Estonia are affected, then regardless of where the draft has come from, it could be discussed, examined, considered. It should not be rejected at first reading, as the Commission has now asked. There are a number of reasons that I do not really think have weight. For example, the Centre Party Group has not made sufficient calculations of how much it costs to add one day of rest, what it means to Estonian finances, to the Estonian economy in terms of budget, or to prepare budgetary forecasts in the long term. When there was a representative of the Government of the Republic on the Commission, an official of the Ministry of the Interior, I asked him about this. In 2004, Christmas Eve was neither a public holiday nor a day off. In 2005, it became a public holiday and a day off on the proposal of the Central Party Group. When comparing the results of 2004 and 2005, how much did the Estonian economy lose due to the addition of this day off? How much did this affect the budgetary positions, how much did it affect the budgets of the institutions where people were forced to work on a public holiday? He owed the answer because the Ministry doesn't make that kind of calculations either. As I said, most of Estonia's public holidays are moving holidays. Once they fall into the week, once to the weekend. As a result, they have a somewhat different impact on the state budget as well as on economic performance. Let us take the same example of the Police and Border Guard Board, which was also discussed by the Minister of Finance in 2011. Those policemen who work on the streets are really earning a public holiday premium, and I personally welcome it because in recent years their pay has not increased very much. However, those officials who do office work will have a day off and, in a sense, will save money. So it's actually a zero game. However, assessing the full economic impact and making no accounting is very difficult for this draft, and it is also relatively pointless. So, to sum up, I think, unfortunately, the government coalition is against the bill because it has come from the wrong party.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U188	Thank you. The explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal does not reveal the specific impact of shortening the working week on Estonia's gross domestic product and state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U189	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U190	Thank you. It seems to me that you in the Commission are very briefly discussing the draft, your answers are so short, you seem to have nothing to answer. But here's what I'm asking you. Do you not think that, from the point of view of the same economic development and figures, the rested person is much more productive and is working with better results at all? And do you know that in addition to the fact that an Estonian person works more than the European average and is resting less, some studies show that an Estonian person is much more unhappy than the residents of other countries? If you add up these two arguments, I think the financial results will improve. If that's how you like to work on the economic side, don't you see a positive result coming from that side? Or how did you address this in the sitting?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U191	Thank you. § 98 of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure states that I should pass on what happened here in the Commission. Debate on hours of happiness or accident, I think, is neither practical nor necessary in this context.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U192	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U193	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Here's the thing. In order to act well in Europe, we adopted a very unhealthy and provenly harmful law, the law of clock twisting. All psychologists, doctors, and other specialists confirm that human biomechanics is greatly disturbed for at least a month when the clock is turned forward or backward for an hour. Still, it was fine. But now you do not want to discuss people's mental health and religion, nor do you want to be like Europe at all. You turned the clock right away, but for religious holidays, you don't want to be like Norway or any other country at all, so you're against hands and feet. What's the reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U194	As the explanatory memorandum to the draft does not reveal the potential impact of shortening Estonia's average working time on gross domestic product, we consider it necessary not to support this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U195	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U196	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question is also based on the knowledge that this draft was submitted for the first time already in 2011 and has been dealt with several times. Is it really that the proposal has not come from the right side, or are you so fundamentally opposed to this holiday?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U197	Thank you. This draft has been repeatedly rejected and, compared to previous times, there have been no arguments in favour as to why it should be approved.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U198	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U199	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, You are somewhat younger than me, and therefore you probably do not have the ability to draw parallels with the period prior to the Republic of Estonia. I'm going to draw this parallel very clearly right now. The more talked about the economic growth and the possibility of improving the economy during the Soviet Union, the worse the situation got. I have noticed that the Republic of Estonia has developed exactly the same trend under the leadership of the Reform Party, and now you are also justifying the rejection of this proposal with economic considerations. I am sorry, but emotional considerations are much more important here, and I think that if the Republic of Estonia found the hundreds of millions that had to be paid for the European Stability Mechanism, and already we are planning all kinds of funds for the admission of immigrants, then this economic cost, which may be linked to the one-day release of people...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U200	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U201	These things are uncomparable.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U202	Would you ask me a question, I'd like to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U203	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U204	Thank you. I understand that this issue was discussed at length in the Commission, but your description of what happened in the committee session was very brief. Please tell us more about what was said there, what was achieved and whether there was talk about why an Estonian person has to work considerably more than a European resident on average. You yourself brought out the figures here: 1600 hours is the European average, 1868 hours in Estonia. Were we talking only about the impact on the economy, or were people's health and religious traditions discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U205	Thank you. I understand that your question is not intended to receive further information. I gave an overview of the Commission's work in my speech, and Priit Toobal also described the pros and cons of this draft very thoroughly on this board. You can take it out of the verbatim and get an answer to your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U206	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U207	Thank you. Don't you think you're giving us the wrong advice? So don't come to the remote at all, so we'll read the verbatim report on the Riigikogu website. But I have this question for you: aren't you suddenly prepared to come to the remote to dissect this question? There is no need to open this yellow book and say that I am talking about what was being said in the committee. You must also interpret it and explain what has been said to us, but you have not been able to do so today.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U208	Due to § 98 of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, I have given an overview of the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U209	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I will continue to speak on the subject of Mart Helme. He didn't get a chance to ask the question, so I'm gonna ask him a question for him. The Reform Party is very pleased to refer to statistics and economic forecasts. There are enough advisers and analysts in the Ministry of Finance who could calculate the expected cost if this law were amended and one public holiday was completed. You have decided that you do not support the Centre Party Group's draft. Do you also have an economic justification for this and to show the figures how much the estimated cost would be if you supported the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U210	The initiator of the bill can contact the Ministry of Finance, who will certainly do these calculations. It will then be possible to discuss it again.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U211	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U212	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! First of all, I must reject one of your false claims that this bill has been repeatedly rejected. This draft has never been rejected in Parliament; it has always remained in the drawer of the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and it has fallen out in connection with the change of composition. It has never been rejected. The coalition ambassadors haven't had that much courage to vote against. My question concerns economic calculation. This issue was under discussion in the Commission and it cannot be answered that it was not addressed. But if Christmas Eve 2004 was not a public holiday and a free day, 2005 was, how did it affect GDP over two years?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U213	Thank you. First of all, I meant the draft rejected by the government, not the draft rejected by the Riigikogu. And I think today this bill will be rejected in the Riigikogu. As far as GDP in 2004 and 2005 is concerned, I can certainly look it up and tell you later.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U214	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U215	Thank you, manager. Dear Commission waitress, I understand that the main argument is that this change would negatively affect the economic growth of the Estonian state. But let me give you a concrete example. During the last five years, the economic growth of Latvia and Lithuania has been twice that of Estonia, yet there is this holiday day. The European Commission's forecast also predicts high economic growth for Latvia and Lithuania next year. So fear of the effect of one additional day of rest cannot be a reason, a reason for something else. Tell me the right reason!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U216	Thank you. I cannot accept the argument that the abolition of one working day does not affect the Estonian economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U217	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U218	Thank you. Dear Commission waitress, Did the Commission have such an idea that if the members of the Commission do not have the competence to understand what will result from an extra day of rest, such as a positive impact in the context of internal consumption, it could be asked by committees that understand this? For example, one could have asked either the Committee on Monetary Affairs or the Committee on Economic Affairs for an opinion. The Board of the Riigikogu has sent instructions to the committees that if a draft is placed on your agenda, which you do not have the competence to decide on, ask the wiser ones. Was such a debate, or did you think it would be easier not to look into the subject at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U219	Thank you. This preparatory work could have been done by the initiator.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U220	A member of the Riigikogu has the right to two questions. Does Priit Toobal have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U221	Thank you. The first was procedural, the third is substantive.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U222	Got it. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U223	Thank you. This year, eight public holidays fall into a week, i.e. working days and three holidays. Next year, however, five public holidays will be held on working days and six on holidays. In what way, and if the Ministry of Finance were to draw up a specific budget, or even a longer forecast, on the basis of such things?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U224	Thank you. You can ask this question to the Ministry of Finance, but I would argue that the loss of one working day a year will not have a positive effect on the Estonian economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U225	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U226	Thank you. Everything's going to be crazy somehow. They say the reason for rejecting the bill is economic. However, if you are asked very specifically whether you are considering which public holidays will fall on working days, which days will be free, you are saying that please contact the advisers or analysts of the Ministry of Finance. If you have come here to report, you could answer specifically what are the real economic reasons why this draft cannot be supported. Bring out the percentages or other figures, and we'll all be happy. Do you have somewhere to take this information or are you still suggesting that you contact the Ministry of Finance?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U227	Thank you. Addressing the Ministry of Finance is never too much, but the peasant logic says that if eight hours less work a year, then it will have an impact on the economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U228	Ladies and gentlemen, and the staff of the verbatim department who are not present in this Chamber, who must record everything that is going on here in the verbatim. I would also like to note that the short speech on behalf of my group is certainly not part of this glorious bouquet, where we have today recognised all the old tried and tested methods of pranking and also experienced new and interesting ones alongside them. The Free Party has shaped its position on this matter. History is such that the question of the restored Republic of Estonia's holiday was decided during the VII Riigikogu, which led to the adoption of the first version of the law. During its preparation and negotiations, there was a very important discussion, namely that a consensus should be reached in the Estonian country on how many public holidays we have and what they are. At the time, it was decided that there should be no more than ten. During the decades that followed, two public holidays have come. We think it would be right to limit ourselves to the 11 we have, plus the national holiday. We do not mind, in principle, if the Riigikogu decides that the public holiday proposed by the authors of the draft would also apply in Estonia, but in order to balance this, one of the current public holidays should be removed from the list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U229	Thank you. Priit Toobal on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U230	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I would still like to remind you why the Central Party Group has brought this draft into this Chamber, why it brought this draft into this Chamber in 2011, why in 2014 and why now, on 6 April this year. Martin Kuke's presentation gave the impression that in some way the draft of the Central Party Group was trying to save the Estonian economy. I won't. This can be done by handling completely different drafts. This can be done by using the drafts that will come to the procedure in this Chamber in the next few hours of the night, or rather, the Estonian economy could be saved if these drafts were withdrawn from the procedure in Parliament. They should not be further processed in this Chamber and even less received with hammers. The draft we have tabled has a very substantive and deep background. The people of Estonia are predominantly religious people. With the exception of children under the age of 15, nearly half of the population believes in the values written in the Bible and in the papers of various confessions. And one of these papers defines the holidays that are celebrated, which are held. Among them is the second Easter, which, together with the great Friday, the quiet Saturday and the first Easter, is the holiday that an Estonian person wants to celebrate, which an Estonian person wants to celebrate. As I said in the report, there are two aspects to this holiday. One aspect is that much has been said about, that is, a religious facet. The second aspect is that it is also considered a very substantive and important holiday in Estonian folk culture, when you want to be with your family, with everyone close to you. Very many of us are forced to leave our homeland and go to work abroad because of the policy of the current government, especially the Reform Party. For example, in Finland, this day is a day off and it gives Estonians the opportunity to stay at home for longer, come here to Estonia and spend time with their families. The family father who works on construction in Finland gets the day off, but his wife here in Estonia has to work. It is a normal working day in Estonia. We want to be part of a European cultural space. This has been confirmed on several occasions by all the leaders of the Estonian state, both government members and leading figures in the parliament. And the vast majority of the 28 countries of the European Union and, if you look at Europe more broadly, a very large part of Europe is celebrating the second Easter as a public holiday. It is considered to be such an important day that people do not need to go to work on that day. Why must we be one of the three European Union countries, together with Malta and Portugal, who think that let our people work this day? Indeed, this bill is not Estonia's GDP or any economic growth bill. At the same time, it is not of any minor importance that, when you look at the figures that tell you how many people in Estonia work on average a week, six or a year, we see that the people of Estonia work very hard. According to OECD data, the average annual employment rate of an Estonian person is nearly 100 hours more than that of the OECD countries. That's a very large number. Overwork creates work stress, tensions. This is what Marika Tuus was trying to ask the Commission's waitress about. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U231	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U232	Ms Tuus tried to ask the Commission's representative, Mr Kuke, whether the public health problems were also discussed at the meeting. I say, dear Marika, that the same discussion was also held in the Commission: it was not very much a matter that they wanted to discuss. At the same time, we know very well what it means when a person is stressed, to his health. Looking at the mortality rate of Estonian people in the context of European Union statistics, for example, in cardiovascular diseases, which occur precisely when a person is under stress, mostly according to various studies, it is precisely the fact that too much work needs to be done that the number is twice as high as in countries where people work less. Take the second indicator: suicides in Estonia. What is the main cause of our many suicides? Once again, it is the fact that people are tired and have to work too hard to earn the little money that can barely make a living. Heimar must have been the one who asked Mr Kuke whether it was even ethical to talk about any financial figures and to calculate whether this had any effect on GDP. In my opinion, there are much more important, much more substantive, more lasting values in this draft than the little dubious benefits that the economy may receive if the Estonian person is still working sick. It is likely that those who have followed this session, even on the Internet, have realized how different people understand things. One party considers only figures, Excel tables, budget lines to be important. But there are also those parties, those behind these very Excel tables, who see a person behind the budget lines, and think that an Estonian person is worth living as well or better as other residents of the European Union. I call on all MPs here in the Riigikogu, all 100 Members to vote in favour of this bill! I would like to remind you that in 2005, when the Centre Party Group proposed, for these very reasons, an extra day for the public holiday, giving religious people the opportunity to go to church, less religious people to spend time with their families, to eat blood sausage and to enjoy each other, Parliament declared Christmas Eve a day off. In this way, Parliament could now support this bill and declare Easter Sunday another holiday in Estonia as a public holiday and therefore as a free day. I hope that, apart from the Centre Party and the EKRE Group, which supports the draft law, the other Members will also approve the draft and not reject it at first reading. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U233	Mart Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U234	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. When I look around this hall, who do I see? I see four or five coalition ambassadors here. That's great. When I listened to the explanations of Commission representative Martin Kuke, I remembered Tammsaare. I remembered Tammsaare's "The New Old Devil of Hell's North," remembering Jürka of Hell's North, who said she knew, but she died. Contact the Ministry of Finance! Turn to someone else, smarter than me! I will not answer that question because it is not within the competence of the Commission. This all coincides with the fact that there is no coalition in this hall. Because what else did Martin Kukk say? 'I think that law will be rejected today. " In other words, he knew that the rubber stamp would be put in place. So this is our democracy. We'll see it tonight for a long night, when the coalition rushes into the hall only to press the button. He doesn't give a damn what the opposition thinks. We made 200 corrections. I believe that at least 20/30 of them are such as to improve these laws, but they are all rejected. They were all rejected by the Commission. As far as holidays are concerned, the economy is not only this much-spoken Excel table. The economy also includes people's attitudes. If we are unable to pay Finnish-level wages, we will give people at least one day off in compensation! Let them refresh themselves. Let them feel good and come to work happier after this day off. It is also an economy, a support for the economy. There is, of course, a religious, emotional aspect. Great Friday is the day of mourning, for Christ was crucified. It's not a holiday of joy. But Easter is the feast of joy, for he has risen. And for a lot of people, it's important, much more important than the Excel table. People who say in a passionate way that you should turn to the Ministry of Finance will not take that into account. Don't turn around! Because we're people, not numbers in the Excel table. For this reason alone, I think that those coalition ambassadors who feel that they are human should also act humanely, not machinetically, press the button that they are told to press in the group. Be human! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U235	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiation by the political groups. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft No 4 at first reading. Kadri Simson, please! Is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U236	Yes, I ask for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U237	Okay, ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U238	Thank you. Dear waitress, You also mentioned in your presentation that this is not the first time that there is a wish to add a Christian holiday to existing public holidays, so that the Estonian people can celebrate it on a free day. Ten years ago, the Riigikogu voted 69 votes in favour of the Central Party's proposal to change December 24 to a free day. It was a working day until 2005. Have you been familiar with the verbatim reports at the time and understood why it went so far in 2005 that a Christian holiday received the support of the majority of the Riigikogu hall and no votes against, but now there is such opposition?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U239	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting to reject draft proposal No 4 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 53 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 32 against and 5 abstentions. The draft has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U240	Thank you. Your answer was very brief, maybe a little bit into the question. I will continue the subject of the previous questioner by referring to the fact that you want economic calculations, you want to see how much one public holiday cuts the profits of a company or the revenue of the Treasury. Do you, a young man, think it is ethical to discuss this when we are talking about one of the world's largest religious festivals and creating an extra holiday in Estonia? Is it right here to discuss how many people work that day and how much we lose in money? Perhaps we should simply correct the mistake made in the past and not just be stuck in the economy like this. This economy, as you can see, has put our people to work most in Europe, but at the lowest wage.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U241	Thank you. I think it is practical to discuss this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U242	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U243	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U244	Is Mr Tammel also a procedural question? You have a third question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U245	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U246	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U247	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! When it comes to the fact that this deadline cannot be set because it has a negative economic impact, have you considered reducing the number of deadlines in order to boost the economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U248	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U249	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Toobal, I would like to thank you, and I would also like to thank you for the broad presentation of this serious draft. Please tell me whether the possible addition of the second Easter to workless days could deepen the sense of the people's Christian culture, or whether it is just one pleasant extra holiday. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U250	Thank you. Undoubtedly, the Centre Party Group made this proposal not only in 2011, 2014 but also now with the idea of giving the people of Estonia one more day off. I spoke for quite a while in my presentation about how this one day of rest affects the average number of hours worked by our people, which is higher than that of most other European countries. So, in some ways, it's also an extra holiday question. But once again: this was not the main reason why the Group of the Estonian Centre Party gave this draft to the proceedings. The background is certainly much deeper, much more culturally related. If you look at one or another holiday now on the public holiday list, quite a few of them have religious backgrounds. But if you start asking people what is the real background of one or another holiday, other than that it's a day off and you don't have to go to work in the morning, many may not know. Today's discussion, however, will help people to think about the content of holiday holidays, including religious festivals: why this day is a day of rest and what could be done on that day instead of just being at home on a bag. This same Easter festival is very clearly from a Christian background. On that day, church services are held. People who do not belong to any congregation could also visit and listen to some worship in order to understand its sacred meaning and background. Or we could take Midsummer Day. Everyone's used to having a Midsummer Day as a great big party where they dance together. But in fact, there is also a very clear religious background on Midsummer Day. And it's also on a number of other holidays that may not have seemed to have much to do with faith. A large number of the 11 public holidays we hold have a religious background. As far as the other holidays are concerned, I would point out that one of the reasons why the Centre Party Group tabled this draft is that several of the current public holidays form a so-called set. For example, there is a clear connection between the day of victory and the day of Midsummer. In some ways, they are also related to religious background. The draft currently under way also refers to a specific set, if that is the case. These holidays begin on a great Friday, followed by a quiet Saturday, the first Easter, the second Easter, and the third Easter. Ivi Eenmaa asked how it happened that when the public holidays were written into the Estonian law, the festivals were chosen. I owed him an answer, I really don't know. If you looked at a purely religious background, it would have been more logical if the law on public holidays provided for the first and second Easter as a day off. At the same time, I think it's not right to start changing those days now. I remember that in 2011 Andres Herkel, President of today's Free Party, asked whether the Central Party Group would be in agreement with such a proposal to exchange a large Friday in the Law on Public Holidays with the second Easter holiday. Then you wouldn't have to do one more public holiday, you'd have to replace one with another. I believe that this replacement is not the right way to maintain tradition. Rather, to accept what our group has proposed: that the big Friday and the two Easter holidays are all public holidays and holidays. It's one whole, either from the point of view of folk culture or from the point of view of the church.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U251	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U252	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Waitress! I fully understand your wish to be on the floor for as long as possible today, because hopefully your presence in the Riigikogu will not last for many months and years. It can only last until the Supreme Court has made a decision. But I was motivated by the statement that you were guided by ten commandments in your life and in your activities, one moment ago. One of them sounds like you don't have to steal. Can't the interpretation of this command sound that way: you don't have to encourage a young colleague to steal? As we know, the two stages of the Estonian court have convicted you of such activities. How, then, do you comment on your alleged Christian conduct?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U253	Thank you, dear colleague. Fortunately, in Estonia, only a court will judge and someone will be convicted. Neither Andres Ammas nor any other Member can do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U254	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U255	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good waitress! I heard from you the statement that you do not know what position the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia takes on this matter. I want to assure you and colleagues in the Chamber that we are a conservative party, which means that we also consider it extremely important to honour Christian holidays, celebrations and traditions in Estonia. From this point of view, we support this proposal to amend the law and will certainly vote in favour of the designation of Easter as the second holiday.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U256	Thank you, dear Mart Helme. I am very pleased with this support. I was forced to say so because your group is currently seven and you have no representative in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs where you could have heard your position. But during the vote, it will be seen, and I am very pleased that your group has decided to join them in this Chamber, who consider the second holiday of Easter to be an important holiday and see great traditional value in it. As I said, one of the reasons given by the representative of the Government of the Republic and the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Kalle Laanet, for proposing rejection was that this is not part of our traditions. But in my presentation I spoke about the 1937 public holidays, and then it was a day off and a public holiday. I hope you all respect this tradition. But thank you again.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U257	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U258	I know nothing about deadlines, but I understand that this particular issue does not concern this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U259	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Now I'm opening negotiations. Jüri Adams of the Estonian Free Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U260	Thank you. Already last time, in 2011, when the Centre Party Group gave the same draft to the proceedings, I looked into how it happened that the vast majority of the Chamber supported our proposal. One of the main arguments, as I have spoken a lot here today, was that several religious festivals belong together. Christmas Eve belongs together with the two holidays that follow her. They are the first and the second Christmas Day. It makes sense that Christmas Eve is included in this set. When Toivo produced this bill for protection in this Chamber, the reason for it may have been mentioned above all in his speech. The second reason which emerged when reading his report was that at the time, it was also compared to how much work the people of Estonia are doing compared to the people of other European countries. Even then, this figure was much higher than in any other European country. The Estonian person also worked quite a lot more at the time. Remembering 2005 before that, the Centre Party had put on the table a much larger proposal, which was born because the people of Estonia are not allowed to rest at this very darkest time. Then we wanted to introduce a 'long winter holiday', or even a week off, and add it to the list of public holidays. In a sense, perhaps the coalition and others who voted in favour of it took this Christmas Eve off the table and making it a public holiday as a compromise. I guess there were a number of arguments, but basically, it was a perfectly logical and traditional solution. If Christmas Day and Christmas Day are free days, then Christmas Eve is included in the package.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U261	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U262	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good speaker! In my time as a private entrepreneur, I had a good cooperation partner in Germany. As has already been said here, there are much more public holidays and local holidays in other countries. Therefore, it was sometimes quite difficult for me to get in touch with my partner, and there were several holidays each month. What other holidays do you think could be considered in Estonia in the future, in addition to what you have offered?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U263	Thank you. Indeed, this bill clearly concerns a holiday, but I have already mentioned and recalled once the proposal of the Fatherland Union. For more than five years there will be a general song and dance party in Estonia. The day, or the days preceding it, offered by the Patriotic Union, might deserve to be placed on the list of public holidays. And then maybe we could leave that law alone for a while, and I don't think we should add any more public holidays. It seems that the list of public holidays would then be quite sufficient if it were to be taken from both sides of the public calendar and from the church calendar. Your reference to Germany, however, reminded me that Innar Mäesalu, a member of the Reform Party, made a negative response to the proposal to make this holiday a public holiday, proposed that this day be declared a county holiday in Läänemaa. He suggested that companies operating in the county should have people rest this day and give believers the opportunity to go to church and participate in worship. I don't think that's a very good solution. This would create a lot of confusion in Estonia if there is a working day in one county or one institution and there is no other institution. The solution is what the Centre Party Group has put forward in its proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U264	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Now I would like to ask Martin Kuke, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U265	Good people in the hall and all the listeners! The Constitutional Commission addressed the draft submitted by the Centre Party at its meeting on 1 June 2015. I will give you a brief overview of what the debate was like at the committee meeting. The representative of the initiator of the draft bill introduced the draft law on supplementing the Holidays and Holidays Act 4 initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group, which aims to supplement the law with a provision that makes Easter the second holiday a public holiday and a holiday. The representative of the initiator of the draft act noted, among other things, that according to OECD data, an average of 1868 hours was worked in Estonia in 2013, clearly above the OECD average. More work hours were done that year in three European countries. According to the initiator, the EU average is around 1600 hours per employee per year. According to the originator, the change planned by the draft should not create a problem from an economic point of view. The members of the Commission heard the explanations of the initiator's representative and asked further questions. There was interest in how much the change planned by the draft will affect gross domestic product and people's income. The originator's representative replied that since the economic impact was not significant, this draft explanatory memorandum was not mentioned. The representative of the Ministry of Justice, who participated in the committee meeting, explained that the faction of the Estonian Central Party has already initiated the draft amendment of the same-sensory holiday and anniversary law on three occasions and the Government of the Republic has decided not to support it every time. The faction of the Estonian Centre Party has justified its draft by the fact that in most countries of the European Union, this day is a public holiday, making the situation for entrepreneurs easier. The Government of the Republic has found that when determining public holidays, it is more important that cultural backgrounds are taken into account and that entrepreneurs already actually take into account holidays in other countries. For example, in each country, Independence Day is linked to this particular country and on different dates. It should also be noted that the draft has not included an analysis of the costs. The representative of the initiator of the bill noted that since the big Friday and Easter holidays are already public holidays in Estonia, why, according to the same religious and cultural background, the public holiday could not be the second holiday of Easter either. A representative of the Ministry of Justice replied that for each public holiday it was considered and justified why this day should be more valued than others. Rather, the reason for the amendment is that the people deserve an extra holiday, rather than the reason why this day should be a national holiday according to cultural tradition. In the light of the whole discussion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session and rejected (by 5 members of the Commission, 2 against, 0 abstentions). Martin Kukk, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, was appointed rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U266	Thank you. You have questions too. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U267	Thank you, good waitress. Your presentation is a little hypocritical, and the various drafts you deal with are very different methods. In the case of the draft cluster, for example, there is no analysis of the impact on employment, but you are still going to the end of this draft. What exactly do you want to get when we all know that this change has a great emotional value in society? Explain what calculations you expect! And could this problem not have been solved by means of amendments rather than by rejecting the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U268	We will move on to today's second item: 'Principles of cultural policy until 2020'. Annual Implementation Report 2014. The rapporteur is Indrek Saar, Minister of Culture. Ladies and gentlemen, please pay attention, the Minister will speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U269	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The fundamentals of cultural policy until 2020 adopted by the Riigikogu last year were an innovation that had been expected for some time and an update of the fundamentals of Estonian cultural policy adopted in 1998. In addition to the need, there was an interdisciplinary will and willingness that ensured the broad participation of cultural actors in the discussion of the document. However, no paper is perfect, and so the main character of today's debate certainly needs improvements in time and is far from meeting all expectations in the field. At the same time, it is a good basis, in my opinion a 'cultural constitution', from which the Ministry of Culture can also set its own work plans. The first principle of 'Cultural policy fundamentals until 2020' is, in my opinion, so important that I would like to quote it here, because I think it is absolutely necessary to keep this in mind when assessing cultural policy. 'The state creates opportunities for the development and accessibility of culture for both cultural creators and participants. All residents of Estonia must be given the opportunity to create and participate in culture independently of regional, social, cultural, ethnic, age, gender or other individual characteristics and needs. " This beautiful summary also indicates that this document is not as right-handed as some have thought. For my part, I would like to thank the Riigikogu for its exceptional and historic opportunity to hold a cultural debate once a year in the Riigikogu Hall. According to the law, as a minister, I am obliged to submit a report on the fulfilment of the fundamentals of cultural policy, and on this basis the written report submitted to the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu has also been discussed with the Committee on Culture. The report gives an overview of what has been done in the first year, i.e. 2014. The sector's own interest in participating in the debate and talking about the current state of culture, leaving the context of the review of last year's year's year's review, also shows the dedicating of Sirp's latest issue to this topic. Thankfully, cultural people themselves have set up a number of topics through the newspaper, which provide a good opportunity to answer questions raised in the field here. Like all of us, the time allocated to me is limited, so I will try to respond as briefly as possible in the introduction, and I hope that with your help we can already look more closely at the issues that need to be extended in the round of questions. I am pleased that Sirb's editor-in-chief, Ott Karulin, has also come in physical form to this Chamber to test the debate on cultural policy. Questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U270	I will ask if it is possible to make the report available to members of the Riigikogu. [[He's going to the counsellor's office.]] Yeah, we'll do it as soon as we can. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U271	I have here a proposal for the President to take the President's break and wait until the delegates have received this report. Otherwise, the Minister may close the report and the MPs will only receive the report. That would be useless.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U272	Yeah, I agree. I ask the helpers to let me know how long it may take about to ensure the necessary materials for the members of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, the President's break is five minutes. I'm sorry, Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U273	Ladies and gentlemen, attention! We can now continue our trial. The report, which was discussed in the Committee on Culture, is not mandatory for the materials of the Committee on Culture to be submitted to a large hall. Similarly, there is no obligation to notify the Minister's report in advance to the Chamber. But these materials are available in the Committee on Culture and all members of the Riigikogu who wish to get acquainted with them can ask them from the Committee on Culture. At the moment, the presentation of the Minister will continue and after that, every member of the Riigikogu will have the opportunity to ask one oral question. Please, Minister, continue and once again apologize for this interruption.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U274	Thank you very much. A little confusion is understandable because, as I mentioned in the introduction, for the first time, we are dealing with this format and, together, we are probably inventing a bicycle here. So let us take note of this and, next time, let us work together to do this more smoothly. Now the questions. 'When will the decline in the financing of culture stop, and when will the funding of Estonian culture return to the level before joining the European Union? ' We certainly do not accept the so-called decline in the financing of culture and will do our utmost to increase the culture budget. It is true that in 2004 the Ministry of Culture had a budget of more than EUR 102 million and in 2014 EUR 174 million. In this respect, the Ministry's percentage of state budget expenditure amounted to 3.6% in 2004 and had fallen to 2.16% in 2014. The efficiency of the area of governance has increased all the time, including self-income, which has increased by 52% over the last five years. Question: "How do we plan to guarantee social guarantees for freelance artists? ' First of all, under the Creative Persons and Creative Unions Act, creative associations are able to help members of their associations who do not receive income from creative activities by paying them creative support. Secondly, the amendment to the Health Insurance Act, which enters into force on 1 January 2016, combines social tax on persons working under the Debt Law Act agreement with different employers. It provides freelancers who work in a number of cultural institutions and who do not receive enough social tax for health insurance in one month from one employer, but also health insurance from several employers. And the third thing we are planning to do, and which has been the subject of discussions for some time, is to look for a solution to ensure that health insurance is provided to those who have an irregular income and, for example, who, aggregated on an annual basis, pay social tax in the same amount as those who receive monthly wages. Social guarantees for persons receiving irregular income are also part of the work plan of the Government of the Republic. Question: 'When are we going to stop violating copyright law in the area of visual arts and find money to reward the work displayed? ' A situation in which the author presents works to the public on his own initiative and voluntarily, without payment, does not qualify as a copyright infringement. Although yes, the position of an artist as a negotiator may not be the strongest in such a situation. 'When does the underfunding of visual art end and the foundation of visual and applied art is placed in proportion to the size of the member of the creative union served? The Cultural Endowment is a legal entity governed by public law, established by law, which operates in accordance with the Estonian Cultural Endowment Act. The funding of the Cultural Endowment does not depend on the size of the Creative Union in the field. Creative areas must certainly be seen more broadly in this context, both in the diversity of actors and in the forms of action. 'If all development plans in the field of culture foresee the internationalisation of Estonian culture, what areas or trends need to be developed as a priority? ' The Ministry of Culture has so far given equal support to development centres mainly engaged in internationalisation. The study on the internationalisation of culture will be completed next year and, after the results of the survey have been found, we will certainly be happy to start a discussion on which trends could or should be promoted. 'What should be the social guarantees of non-professional liberal arts workers? When will it be accepted that art is a work that must be rewarded, as is natural in all other areas of life? ' Social guarantees I was already talking about under the second point, but I agree that art is a job. Professionals in visual arts often work professionally in so-called other professions, either by teaching, applying their skills in the world of theatre, advertising or literature, or by designing exhibitions, for example. But there is definitely room for improvement here, how to support these important Estonian artists whose creative potential is currently untapped because they do not have sufficient income. 'Is and who should pay artists' fees for performing at exhibitions? Will the state take responsibility for the funding of the arts or will this difficulty only be placed on the hands of private donors? ' The state finances the art sector through the Ministry's budget, through the Ministry's application rounds and cultural capital. In total, the state contributes more than two million euros per year to the art sector. This is less than in many other areas, but it certainly cannot be said that private capital would dominate the financing of art. First of all, it should be clear within the field whether the artist's work and its remuneration (e.g. preparation of the exhibition) or the payment of copyright compensation are being discussed. They are both conceptually and financially different, and a broad consensus and practice is expected here. Artists' work should theoretically be remunerated for performing at exhibitions by the contracting authority. The question is, on what grounds and to what extent it would be logical and realistic to do so. In the case of larger exhibition projects, artists are paid a bonus even now, although there is no doubt that the sector's chances of rewarding people's work are almost nonexistent. Here the parties in the field should reach an agreement that would form a sectoral vision document for the visual arts, which in turn would serve as an input for the Ministry of Culture. 'What steps are planned to be taken to ensure that specialists in state museums receive pay equal to at least the average wage in Estonia? 'The priority of the Ministry of Culture is to raise the salaries of cultural workers in employment with the state, including museum workers. Every year, the state budget has been allocated money, but the pace so far has led to an ever-increasing decline in Estonia's average wage. For 2016, the Ministry of Finance has been asked to increase the minimum wage of a cultural worker with a higher education to at least EUR 900 per month in the following year. The Riigikogu has a remarkable opportunity to come and help us. 'Should artistic activities be in any way equated to research? ' In the context of graduate studies, creative activities are already treated as science, for example, at the Estonian Academy of Arts, you can apply for a doctorate in a creative field. It is certainly not as easy to measure creation as the results of research, and it also limits the funding of creative research to the current innovations, or not to the end of the system. Given the popularity of creative doctoral studies and research in the world, especially in the fields of architecture, design and experimental materials technologies, Estonia certainly has room for improvement in valuing creative research. 'The majority of non-profit operating grants for artistic institutions come from cultural capital. However, the priority of the Cultural Endowment should be to support creativity and creative projects. Without the support of the Cultural Endowment, these institutions could not function. How do we solve this? ' It does not matter whether the Ministry of Culture or Cultural Endowment is funding, both of which share public funds. There is a need for more resources in the field of art, of which we are convinced. In recent years, the resources for the call for proposals "Art Galleries" have been significantly increased. Unfortunately, this has not been felt in terms of the amount of grants that have been granted, since there will be more capable initiators from year to year. In the process of the sectoral vision paper, funding for the institutions is one of the key issues. I hope that we will be able to reach concrete conclusions and proposals this autumn. 'When will the Ministry of Culture SA Tallinn Art Hall and the budget problems of galleries managed by the Estonian Artists' Association begin to be treated with the same level of empathy as has been done in theatres? On the basis of the real-estate nature of the exhibition space, as is currently the case, drastic distinction is not a sustainable policy. The technical state of construction of the Tallinn Art Hall, the city's most central exhibition site, does not matter to the state or the city. Its current policy is justified by the fact that the building is owned by the Creative Union. ' The cooperation of the Ministry of Culture with the Tallinn Art Hall is now practical and substantive. At the end of May, there was a meeting with the management of the fund, and in cooperation we have found initial ways of improving the situation. 'What can we do to ensure that the Contemporary Art Museum of Estonia (EKKM) not only can it continue to function but also that its normal development is ensured? " Contemporary Art Museum of Estonia (EKKM) is an own-initiative exhibition site whose contribution to the art life of recent years has been remarkable. The country supports the museum with an average of EUR 60000 per year. In cooperation with the museum, we are ready to look for ways to ensure further development. 'Has the Ministry of Culture studied the proposals submitted by the Estonian Writers' Union regarding possible solutions to support the creation and creators of original Estonian literature? " We are. We are talking about the so-called Norwegian method, where the state buys almost all the original literary works in all public libraries. There is also a system in Norway where so-called purchases are made in advance before the book has appeared so that the publisher knows what the book's circulation should be. The weakness of this model, however, is both the lack of money and the fact that it makes sense to buy into every public library everything that is issued in Estonia. As a reminder, there are 549 public libraries in Estonia, with 917 libraries in total. 'Which support mechanisms are intended to encourage the creation of larger prose works, which could also attract the interest of foreign publishers? 'Here's a reference to the 'Culture 2020' point. There is no separate order for foreign publishers to like. At the same time, the Estonian Writers' Union has proposed an idea of a so-called writer's salary, which, in my opinion, certainly deserves further discussion. 'When will the library assembly grant return to pre-masusal level? " In 2008, the national support for the acquisition of public libraries' journals was more than 2.2 million euros. In 2009, this subsidy decreased to less than EUR 1.7 million and remained so for six years, i.e. until 2014. In 2015, money was found to increase the support for the acquisition of national public libraries' journals by 5%. This support must certainly increase, but, unfortunately, it is not now possible to predict when it will return to 2008 levels. 'Are there plans to reduce the value added tax (VAT) on books to pre-masus? " Tax differences can be a consensual decision of the entire government. The current government has agreed that no new tax distinctions will be introduced. 'How does the state create 'prerequisites for an increase in the number of e-books and greater coverage'? ' Here too, there is a reference to the point of the document mentioned earlier. 249 e-books had been completed as of 1 December 2014. In 2014, 87 works were added from 35 authors. The total number of these books has been downloaded 65,000 times. The Ministry of Culture will also continue its e-book programme in 2016 and the e-books will certainly be more widely disseminated by December 2016. 'Is there any hope that, in the case of lending e-books, the authors will receive a loan benefit? ' At the same time as the e-lending environment is completed, the e-book loan compensation model will be developed. 'Is there any hope that, if the e-book continues to be considered as a service rather than a work, the number of e-books to appear and the number of these loans will increase the resources that libraries obtain product licences with? ' People's libraries can still acquire licences for the use of e-books. Readers' wishes are crucial to the purchase of publications. As public information library support grows, the possibility of purchasing either publications or e-book licences will, of course, increase according to what is in greater demand at that point in time. The grammatical construction of 'Culture 2020' in point 29.2 states: 'The state creates opportunities for popularization of literature and for valuable activities in reading and literature... " Such an undertaking is the title of UNESCO literary city, which requires and involves meaningful events that popularize literature and is requested by the city of Tartu. How does the state plan to support the future literary city? ' The Ministry of Culture definitely supports Tartu's ambition to become a literary city and is ready to contribute to it. 'When will a nationwide e-book lending environment be created, on which libraries have repeatedly proposed? ' As I have already pointed out, the project is being prepared with the support of European Union funds and should be completed by December 2018. How do the film culture objectives set out in the Culture 2020 programme differ from those set in 2005? ' Increasing funding for film production has always been an objective and the level of funding has also increased somewhat over time. In recent years, however, the following new objectives have also been set: the establishment of a national so-called "refund fund," the development of export of film production services, the additional supply of cinemas with digital projectors, the creation of a new film set-up as a cluster and the digitisation of the entire film heritage. 'When will tax relief be introduced for the production of foreign film projects in Estonia? ' There will be active discussions between the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, EAS and the Ministry of Finance in cooperation with the Estonian Film Institute. The Ministry of Culture considers it necessary and we are working to ensure that at least some amount of pilot project can be carried out already in 2016. 'How much support for national film art will increase in the next four years in the administrative field of the Ministry of Culture, not the Ministry of Defence, the State Chancellery, the 'Estonian Republic 100' project or elsewhere? 'The Ministry of Culture has submitted an additional request to the Ministry of Finance to increase the aid for film production by EUR 1 million each year from next year. 'Is there a programme of support for television and film production that has made the Scandinavian film and television industry competitive? ' This is now one of the places for long discussion, but the competence to create such a support programme lies with the Estonian Film Institute. At the same time, it can be said that such a program would, unfortunately, have become morally obsolete today and might no longer give the effect that is hoped for. 'What are the plans for the development and support of Estonian cinemas as necessary for national culture? " Last year and also this year, public money was channelled through cultural capital to digitize cinemas in order to improve the possibilities of showing films across Estonia. Jõhvi, Kuressaare, Kärdla, Märjamaa, Paide, Rakvere, Tartu, Valga, Võru, Haapsalu, Jõgeva and Põlva have received grants. The creation of a network of county cinemas is also under discussion, which should improve the situation in Estonia in terms of film distribution and the circulation of films of a large scale. We've come to the music. The number of theatre visits, books and concert visits is expected to be quite stable in the table of metrics of the 'Programme of the Ministry of Culture' 2016 to 2019', but the number of authors' fees in the field of music coming from abroad should jump from an initial level of EUR 164102 to EUR 800000 by 2019. Will there also (at least) multiply the subsidies for music exports in order to achieve the result? ' Unfortunately, there is no provision for multiplying resources to support the export of music. However, it can be argued that the combined effect of the Ministry, Cultural Capital and Estonian Creditors' Association export refunds and systematic and informed separation of external communication has also developed in current volumes. The first real export success stories exist, which are also expressed financially, and activities in this direction are becoming increasingly aware. More and more collectives and artists reach the border and participate in international musical life and industry. To be clear, however, the development plan is not talking about 800000 but about EUR 700000. 'The idea of creating a pool fund is old, but does anyone have a clear plan on how to move towards the goal? ' The head of the Cultural Endowment of Estonia has dealt with this topic very thoroughly and we hope to have more detailed information about how we can proceed with these developments together in the near future. I'm asking for more time because part of the time was lost!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U275	How much time do you need?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U276	I'm hoping to make it in five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U277	Five minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U278	'How likely do you think it is to build a modern concert hall that meets the requirements of the future, which is also the home of ERSO? " At the moment, the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre has a new hall in anticipation of construction, with the help of the Cultural Endowment of Estonia. The following major objects, which are funded as important national cultural buildings provided under the Cultural Endowment Act of Estonia, must be agreed on the decision of the Riigikogu in accordance with the Kukka Act. 'In Finland, radio stations are obliged to play at least 70% of Finnish music, which facilitates the development of the music industry there. We have the issue of the share of domestic and foreign music not regulated, and Estonian music accounts for 10 to 15% of the sound on the radio. Is and how much can the state interfere with the regulation of the origin of music played in radio stations? ' The state intervened in the origin of the music played in radio stations last year, when an amendment was introduced to the operating licences for radio stations that at least 25% of the music presented in the programme must be created by Estonian authors. 'Why is the Tallinn Chamber Orchestra not financed by state support, both the Pärnu City Orchestra and the Narva City Symphony Orchestra? The funding of Pärnu and Narva orchestras is a matter of regional and cultural importance for the Ministry of Culture. Unfortunately, the state cannot start financing all the local authorities' collectives. However, the state can and already supports the accompanying activities, including in Tallinn Philharmonica, which is part of the Tallinn Chamber Orchestra (foreign trips, ordering music). This year, for example, the state will also support the resident composer at Tallinn Philharmonic. 'What are the principles of national subsidization of theaters? Who, and how, appreciates the artistic level or national cultural importance of the theatres for this? ' State subsidies for theatres are based on the six criteria set out in the Rules of Procedure of the Committee on the Financing of Theatres, which I am failing to read out for lack of time. In addition, a group of experts from the field to advise the Commission on the planning and distribution of grants from the state budget has been set up for the performance agencies. 'Is the public funding of the operational costs of theatres planned to return to the AITA system? ' The changes to the act of the performing institution are planned to be prepared next year. With these changes, we want to reach a clear-cut financing model that everyone understands. HELPING as one of the possible funding bases is certainly under discussion. 'Can and how does the Ministry of Culture intend to force or at least direct State-funded large theatres to cooperate more closely with small theatres and groups? ' I very much hope that the big theaters do not rule out cooperation with small theatres and groups, but the ministry cannot force anyone to cooperate with. 'Does the Ministry of Culture support the birth of a free stage in Narva? If so, when and in what way is this support expressed? ' The Ministry supports. This is an important step, both regionally and culturally, in terms of diversity. We have submitted an additional request to the Ministry of Finance for EUR 250000 per year. 'How does the Minister of Culture view the current field of theatre education and how is it planned to work with the Ministry of Education and Research to improve the situation? To what extent does the theatre education provided respond to the needs of the current labour market? ' The main partners here are the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre, Viljandi Culture Academy, the Estonian Theatre Association and the Association of Estonian Performance Institutions. We know that there is close cooperation between these organisations. The Ministry of Culture shall support these organisations and, where appropriate, shall contribute at both official and political level. We also regularly communicate with theatre schools to improve curricula and negotiate with the Ministry of Education and Research, as appropriate. 'When will a national action plan in the field of architecture, appropriate to the current situation, be drawn up? The last national document in this respect shall bear the year 2002. ' The development plan in the field of architecture is being prepared with sectoral professional organisations. It will be not a national development plan, but a development plan of the field itself, which will play an input role for the Ministry of Culture. The partners who will prepare the development plan are the Estonian Architectural Centre, professional associations and organisations and the Architectural Chamber. 'Who coordinates architecture policy as a whole and is responsible for its implementation? " Regrettably, the coordination of the entire architecture policy has been confusing for years. I hope that a solution will be found together with the implementation of the state reform. 'How do the editing of the Department of Planning of the Ministry of the Interior and the development of planning guidelines shape a spatially high quality living environment? ' Estonia has not yet carried out an in-depth assessment of the impact of the implementation of the plans. The Ministry of the Interior is preparing guidelines for the assessment of the respective impact, and the work group that prepares them also includes the architectural and design advisor of the Ministry of Culture. I feel like I'm gonna have to ask for another five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U279	Please, five more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U280	Thank you! 'Should the state ordering architecture be based on the cheapest price or quality? How many quality-based procurements has the state carried out? ' There is a new Public Procurement Act under development that will create better regulation for value-based procurement. According to the Ministry of Finance, already around 25% of all public procurements are value-based. 'Why is the country's real estate policy hostile to monuments? " We consider it important that the state, as an example of protecting cultural goods, fulfil this role better. There is much to be done in this direction, but fortunately there are also good examples of the Harbour of Flight, the Health Museum, the Small House of Vanemuine, court buildings in Rakvere and Pärnu, and the reconstruction of the State Gymnasium of Haapsalu and Viljandi. There is certainly a need for an increase in state support for private owners holding sites. In the last two years, the Ministry of Culture has increased the grants by EUR 75000 on the basis of internal resources, totalling EUR 650000. We have also submitted an additional request for next year, including 20 000 direct payments. 'Who should set an example in valuing monuments? ' In particular, the owner of each site, including all government agencies and institutions, can set an example. In 2014 and 2015, a new Heritage Protection Act was prepared at the Ministry of Culture with the aim of organising and updating the field. As a result, the ownership and public interest of the sites should be balanced. It is also intended to alleviate the burden on owners of private monuments. The special conditions of heritage protection and supervision of both management and costs are borne by the State. The role of the state in advising the owners of the sites is growing in the implementation of the new law. Competent advice on the maintenance of sites is the highest expectation for the state of owners alongside financial support. For the effective implementation of the Act, the Ministry of Culture will request additional resources from the state budget. 'Why is the economic efficiency of the state's real estate and fiscal policy more important than preserving cultural heritage? ' Both must be important, but it is clear that if economic efficiency was not required, there would probably be less available resources to support anything at all. In 2016, the Ministry of Culture intends to undertake a study to assess the impact and potential of cultural heritage in an economic context. 'When will heritage management be supported by the EU Structural Funds? 'Supports can be requested for various measures, such as measures to strengthen the competitiveness of regions, the Estonian-Russian cross-border cooperation programme, Interreg etc. In our view, there could be a separate measure in the next period to support the clean-up and re-use of cultural monuments. We hope that the regulations of the European Union, which will be written at the time, will allow this to happen. 'Why was the design field transferred from the Ministry of Economic Affairs to the Ministry of Culture? ' At the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, design has been developed thanks to its relationship with entrepreneurship and economy. Applying the design at the forefront of innovation is common in Scandinavia and elsewhere, and that makes sense. The creative and artistic aspects, the role of the local cultural heritage representative and the role of the cultural export developer are also important for the development of the design field. The design helps to create an identity for the country, improve the quality of services as a means of communication and thus develop our culture of communication. 'Does design need a policy of its own or should it be a natural part of all other areas? ' The use of design as a locomotive for innovation is important in society as a whole, so perhaps there is no point in a separate policy. However, the sector would benefit from drawing up a sectoral development plan in order to channel its own activities and resources. The 'Culture 2020' document also talks about joint curricula in design and technology education. How many are there in Estonia and how are they doing? ' There's one of them. This is a joint curriculum between the Estonian Academy of Arts and Tallinn University of Technology, which is an important step in the right direction. The Ministry of Culture can draw attention to the creation of new joint curricula, if necessary, and improve cooperation between business and ministries in the field. The Ministry of Culture can also indirectly contribute by channelling the European Union's R &amp; D &amp; I Partnership instruments to support research. 'Should it be the Ministry of Culture, or rather the Ministry of Economics and Communications, who created a joint institution in the field of architecture and design? ' The Ministry of Culture should take the lead in establishing a unitary institution, as museums are directly part of our administration. However, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications can support architectural and design development centres whose activities help to develop entrepreneurship and export. These were the 48 questions that were raised in relation to the subject-matter. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U281	Thank you. There are a number of questions for you too. Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U282	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I will turn to the AITA theme mentioned in your presentation, i.e. the estimated human year. Please tell me if it is planned to include AITA-based funding in the act of a performing institution.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U283	Yes, if it is agreed that this is the basis for assessment, then it must also be written into the law of the performing institution, which is going to be amended in order to specify the funding criteria. This is one of the important reasons for this change.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U284	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U285	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for a good speech. I have a question about the music field. Traditionally, we have a musical field divided into two parts: the academic side, along with everything else that is oriented towards popular, commercial and entertainment music. Reality has long changed, and this approach is part of the 20th century, but the institutional structure of the field is still clearly inclined to do so. For example, the Estonian Music Council presents itself as a representation of the field, but in fact it represents 95% of the interests, worldview and values of classical music. There are exceptions, such as the Estonian Jazz Union and the Estonian Rütmimuusika Education Union. Since the music field can only develop in cooperation between the field and the ministry, how can we ensure that sufficient diversity of representation is involved? Would the Ministry like to see new organisations emerge, or would it be possible to do so without the creation of new organisations?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U286	Depends on what the field is ready for. The Ministry cannot decide which umbrella organisations are created within the field. However, these initiatives come from within the field on their own initiative. If there are organisations that are able to represent the field, the Ministry of Culture will be pleased to have partners who bring together as much of the representatives of one or another sector as possible. The stronger the musicians, the more powerful the umbrella organisations unite the music institutions, the easier our lives will be. So, from the ministry's perspective, the process is always welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U287	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U288	Honourable Minister of Culture! Is it possible to achieve the constitutional objective of guaranteeing the preservation of Estonian nationality, language and culture throughout the ages when we have the fundamentals of cultural policy until 2020, but do not have a specific population policy? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U289	Yes, the Minister of Culture can probably not do population policy alone; the Riigikogu needs help and the help of other ministries. How can population policy be better organised than it is today? I am indebted to that at this point, and perhaps it would be too much ambition if I were to respond to it today. It is natural that the people need culture, and in the current model of state governance, cultural policy is probably also needed for this. I hope that we will be able to do our best in the Ministry to provide the best possible basis for creating culture, and as has been repeatedly said in this document, so that all Estonian people can participate in culture. I think that this is also an important part of population policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U290	I'm sorry for a moment! Priit Toobal, do you have a procedural question? Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U291	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I want to ask you about music schools, which in themselves are local government, but still. We have over 90 music schools, and right now directors of music schools are gathering in Põltsamaa to discuss common problems. One of their biggest common problems is the shortage of professional lecturers. For example, Võru has a gross salary of 637 euros. My question is whether you have plans or vision for the development of music schools in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U292	Directly speaking, the organisation of music schools is more in the field of the Ministry of Education and Research, but we certainly have a very large joint role here. This is also confirmed by the fact that according to the work plan of the Government of the Republic, the Minister of Education and Research and the Minister of Education and Research are responsible for ensuring that the funding and accessibility of recreational education is significantly improved. To this end, the country's budgetary strategy foresees EUR 6 million for 2017 and EUR 15 million for 2018 and 2019. This work could then start from September 2017 onwards. Firstly, it is necessary to develop an advocacy education support system for which the Minister of Culture is responsible, in cooperation with the Minister of Education and Research, and then it must be implemented, for which the Minister of Education and Research is responsible, in cooperation with the Minister of Culture. So this area is intertwined. I very much hope, or what I hope, I am sure that access to education of interest cannot be significantly improved if the pay of people working in this area does not rise. As I have said many times and also referred to in my answers, the pay of cultural workers is certainly one of the priorities of the Ministry and, of course, wages must also rise in recreational schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U293	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U294	Thank you. Good Minister, thank you for this report, which was largely based on the questions put by Sirbis. Since Anzori Barkalaya, who wrote about folklore culture, did not ask any questions there, your presentation did not address the subject of folk and folklore culture at all. That is why I want to draw attention to this and ask. This is such a big area, it can be said that hundreds of thousands of people are involved, especially when we are talking about the movement of song and dance and the people who are preparing this process. You were talking about a network of music schools. A little clarification that this is not a matter of hobby education, but a network of music schools and art schools is a hobby education. There are separate laws about them, which should be noted. Here's my question. We've talked a lot about coaching raises and organizing their pay system. Choir leaders and folk dance leaders are completely underfunded and not even considered educators. Will you do something about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U295	Despite the fact that these terms are slightly different, I very much hope that the money that I have spoken about and which is intended to promote access to recreational education will also be extended to music schools and recreational education there. But thank you for pointing out that folk culture really remained the role of orphans in Sirbis, and no questions were asked about this. As far as teachers from different disciplines are concerned, they are all involved in the field of culture. They're all cultural workers. Yes, indeed, not all of them receive wages from the state, which means that wages often come from local government resources. Here I see two possible directions: one is what I have already talked about with regard to the addition of state resources; the other, of course, is the reform of the state with administrative territorial reform. The fact that teachers working in the field of hobby education receive a monthly salary of EUR 400-500 or that people working in a local government museum or library receive a month of EUR 500-600 shows that something is wrong in our administration system. It is not possible to motivate people with such salaries. Consequently, something must also happen as a result of the reform of the state, including the administrative-territorial reform, so that local authorities are sufficiently capable to pay the people in this area a decent salary.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U296	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U297	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You also discussed building a modern concert hall that meets the requirements of the future, which would also be the home of ERSO, among the questions raised in your presentation by Sirbis. If I understood correctly, you replied that this could come on the agenda after the music academy hall was completed and that this would depend on the decision of the Riigikogu. But the long-term investment plan for cultural objects over the years has been adopted for four years in the country's budget strategy, which is drawn up by the government, not by the Riigikogu. Can you tell me what the schedule for the construction of these objects, the music academy hall and the contemporary concert hall is, do you have any idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U298	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U299	Thank you, Mr President. I am sorry, Minister, that I am misleading you, but the report on which you report is not available to the members of the Riigikogu. It has been given to the Committee on Culture, but only the newspaper Sirp is available to the MPs, where unfortunately the whole report is not included, there are only certain expert opinions in this area. Would it be possible to arrange for the members of the Riigikogu to be given this report on paper and we could prepare our questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U300	As far as the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre is concerned, the decision of the Riigikogu is as I said. When it was realised years ago that such very large investments of national cultural importance could not be planned in the long term in such a way as to ensure certainty, it was decided that Kumu, the Estonian National Museum and the new EAMT hall would come from the part of the investments in cultural capital. This is how the Riigikogu decided here, and I think it was a sensible decision, it gave some sort of certainty and stability. The current situation is that the Kulka Council has decided on its role, i.e. the allocation of 4 million, and can start fulfilling the obligation at the moment the construction process has begun. However, EAMT is part of the Ministry of Education and Research; this process is their coordination. Unfortunately, therefore, the Minister for Education has to be asked how far this process is exactly. As far as the concert hall is concerned, as I have already mentioned, for years the policy of financing large objects of national cultural importance has been subject to the decision of the Riigikogu, on the basis of which the Cultural Capital Council makes the separation of funds. I think this is also a reasonable way to move forward with the construction of the concert hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U301	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U302	Honorable President! Respectable Minister of Culture! I ask you, as an experienced theater man, who knows the life of the theatre both on stage and as a theatre director on the development side, your perhaps quite subjective opinion. How do you think the Estonian theatre is doing and how does its current progress coincide with the ideal idea of the fundamentals of cultural policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U303	I think the theater's doing really well. The Estonian theatre is diverse. There are, of course, continuing to be a problem with salaries. If the actors with Estonian higher education receive 700-800 euros' salary, I think that this may not be motivating in the long term. Theaters also have a question of pay and this is not only about creative or, say, traditionally regarded as creative, because it could be said that all works in the theatre are creative. This also applies to guaranteeing other professionals in the theatre and the level of pay worth to them, as these other professionals often compete very widely on the labour market. What is definitely a question we must ask one day is how many theatres will fit in the berryland. Estonia is a theatre nation, and a million theatre visits a year are something that no one else can see. In terms of population, there is practically one for one theatre. Nowhere else is it. Finland is perhaps in this direction, in Finland, one could say, buying about 3 million theatre tickets per 5.5 million people. In other parts of Europe, this ratio may be 10%, 15%, with a maximum of 20% of the population. Estonia is a theatre people and it is also a cultural tradition. But this picture has become more diverse all the time. In 2014, the annual report, which we are talking about today, added a completely new kind of enterprise, which had been dreamed and talked about for years, i.e. a free stage, where a considerable financial resource goes, and which gives free groups a lot of new opportunities. Small amounts of money, but four more small theatres were taken into public finance this year. At some point we need to ask ourselves how much we can support this area. I think we will have this debate sooner or later. But if you ask me how the theatre is, the theatre is doing well in terms of content.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U304	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U305	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister! I must say, as an introduction, that I believe that culture is upstream of politics, i.e. culture is more important than politics. At least as important as the Minister of Culture is perhaps only the Minister of Education. You are certainly more important in a broad social sense than the Minister of Finance or Defence, for example. Don't get me wrong, I'm just saying it with a nightmare. But here's my question. You started your introduction by quoting the principles of shaping and implementing cultural policy. This basic document is full of references to the Preamble of the Estonian Constitution and how Estonian culture must support Estonian national culture. However, you have chosen to quote a place where ethnic, age, gender and all other individual features have been mentioned. As the Minister of the Republic of Estonia, the representative of the institution of the Republic of Estonia is not obliged, however, to prefer the reproduction of Estonian national culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U306	Here we could now enter into a long discussion, which is Estonian national culture. I think that Estonian national culture changes and develops all the time. In addition to our obligation to preserve cultural goods, we also have a duty to ensure the development of this culture. This culture is influenced by all those living in the Republic of Estonia, and the Ministry of Culture also deals with all those living in the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U307	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U308	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Culture! I will continue almost where a good colleague, Urve Tiidus, graduated. The question of funding and subsidising theatres has arisen over and over again in the press. My previous life in the City Council of Tartu was actually shacked up with them, where there were also a lot of problems in the financing of the theatre. They have been tried differently and there have always been people who think there is something wrong, someone has been harmed or no one has got what they wanted. You, Mr Indrek Saar, are a man with high expectations because the people know that you know this area, both the good and the bad. Do you have any ideas or even a development plan to change the situation? Would you be willing to introduce these things in a few words?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U309	I'm sorry, my mind was wrong for a second. Did the question continue to concern the financing of theatres?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U310	Yeah, funding theaters.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U311	As I answered here before, both the question raised by Sirbis and the question posed by Ain Lutsep, this debate, which concerns the financing of theatres, lies before us. We are committed to updating the law of the performing institution next year and, of course, there will also be a discussion on the basis of how the theatres are financed. You have made a very grateful reference to heightened expectations. I do, however, consider it necessary to say that I am not Jesus Christ, that I cannot turn water into wine. In my small way, I can, like any other citizen of the Republic of Estonia, think and contribute to ensuring that these things are as systematic, predictable and widely negotiated as possible, so that this agreement is as consensual as possible. I think this is the role of the Minister of Culture. My deep personal convictions should not mean that the decisions that are taken at the Ministry of Culture are based solely on my convictions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U312	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U313	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You briefly discussed the pay problems of cultural workers in your presentation. You were talking about the minimum wage and whether it would apply to cultural workers who are working in public libraries, clubs and various structures. Could you give me a little overview of this and talk about the guarantees?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U314	Thank you for your question. The Ministry of Culture can submit a budget application and provide funds to pay the salaries of cultural workers receiving a salary from the state budget in order to guarantee a minimum. And for that, we have submitted an additional request for almost EUR 8 million in next year's state budget. This would provide an opportunity to significantly reduce the difference between the wages of cultural workers, full-time graduates and the average wage in Estonia. Similarly, the minimum wage for teachers and the minimum wage for cultural workers were once linked. That is why our request is based on the desire to raise the minimum wage for cultural workers in 2016 at least to the level that teachers already pay this year, or 900 euros. This promise, of course, concerns cultural workers who are paid by the state, as I said earlier, that does not concern local government employees. For example, in the case of libraries, we pay four people in each central library. These are the salaries that must be guaranteed by the Ministry of Culture. The rest of the staff are to be financed by the local government. There is one exception here for the Hiiumaa Central Library, which we provide for one person, not four people, as anywhere else.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U315	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U316	Good manager! Dear Minister, The question concerns the built environment. In responding to sectoral questions, you said that, regrettably, the responsibility for implementing architectural policy in Estonia is really rather unclear and fragmented, and you put your hopes on the Minister of State Administration, the state reform. As far as I know, the Ministry of Culture has the only position in the Estonian state, the name of which includes the word 'architecture' as such, and I also know from my own experience that you have a very close connection with the field of architecture. Have you, along with the field, started to concentrate and have you tabled or already presented your proposals to the Minister for Public Administration? How should this clearer administration, clearer accountability be developed in the future in the context of the reform of the state, and what are the proposals in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U317	Thank you. Unfortunately, we have only had a brief and formal discussion with the people in the field, and we have only met in the framework of the monthly meeting of the Chamber of Culture and the representatives of the creative federations. Therefore, no important steps have been taken in this area at present. I am very interested that this role will be made clear how Estonia's living environment will be directed to the state level, who will be responsible for it and what responsibility the state will assume. I am convinced that the current system of disengagement is quite expensive fun for all of us in the long run. There are many examples of this in practical life. Let's look at what happened in the 1990s and early 2000s in connection with urban sprawl. I think it has a very high price, is already in place and will be ever higher in the future. In order to avoid such panic attacks in the future, this area must be more closely coordinated at national level.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U318	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U319	Thank you. Mr. Minister for Culture! In February last year, when we confirmed a document entitled 'The foundations of Estonian cultural policy' in this hall, we said that this document covers both Estonians and representatives of other nationalities living in Estonia. I listened with interest to your report and looked at the report, but I didn't notice anything about it. Perhaps you can comment on the work of the Ministry of Culture in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U320	So it's kind of a preventive activity, too, this cultural activity, going to the circles of interest, this really, uh, growing an intelligent nation. And it's not a strictly one ministry issue. My conclusion could be to call on all ministers to assess the cultural field and to realise that times are changing. It is not the case that every municipality simply has to deal with everything it has there in itself, because recreational and recreational activities are actually a matter of our culture and education, of the survival of our people as a whole. I wish the Minister of Culture strength! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U321	There are no more requests for negotiation. We have passed today's second item. Thank you very much to the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U322	Thank you for your question. Culture in 2020 is discussed in the chapter 'Cultural diversity'. Fortunately, we also have our own development plan in this area, 'Estonia 2020', which has the same numbers. This development plan has also been one year round. There is no obligation for this development plan to be discussed by the Riigikogu as a separate point, which certainly does not mean that it is any less important than the development plan for culture as a whole when I look at it. I believe that culture plays a very important role in the integration process and in ensuring cultural diversity. There are very specific things that culture can do by combining these areas or whether it can be said that it is connecting them. Among other things, you can mention the art residency of Narva, which will be created by the Ministry of Culture. In the same way as I said in my replies, we have made an additional request that Narva also come with a free stage project. Not to mention, of course, the funding intended for the societies of national culture, which are engaged in the same integration and the other way around in the preservation and development of national cultures.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U323	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U324	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I read a copy of Sirb's article on past Fridays because it was very concise to get the sense of what the moods of the cultural community are now. I had the impression that the culture community's attitude to the development plan for cultural policy was quite skeptical. At times, I even felt that it wasn't like a healthy scepticism. For example, you're called a turd in this editorial, but that's why you're used to it. My question is, first of all, how can we improve the dialogue in Estonia between the cultural community, the official community and the politicians for God's sake, so that this dialogue is sustainable in itself and we do not deal with formal matters. That's one side of the question. The second is the question of money. I also have another question, but since one question can be asked...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U325	Yes, please, time!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U326	If the President allows, because this issue of money is a very important issue. Let's take the theoretical...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U327	One minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U328	How much money should we put in the field of culture from public resources so that we can say that the situation is ideal? How big is the financing hole?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U329	It can be said, from the back, that if there was an ideal situation in the pre-masusian period, as has been pointed out here on one issue, the sums should now almost double. At least today's memories would then be an ideal situation, given that the proportion of the state budget of the Ministry of Culture has now fallen to almost 2% and in 2014 it was 3.6%. Would that ensure an ideal situation? However, I have deep doubts. We'll probably never make it to the ideal. Culture, like democracy, is a process that is constantly evolving, with new ideas, new desires and new challenges. I think it belongs to the nature of cultural people that traditional political documents and politics, as such, are always called into question. Maybe it's a healthy scepticism that helps keep the dialogue going. I think it's very nice that Sirp brought these opinions together. Surely they are not one hundred percent representative, certainly there are people who have slightly different thoughts. This is one view of culture, but relatively well covered in terms of questions. Now, in terms of tonality, did this give us 100% of the truth? I don't think there's ever a hundred percent truth. But in order to create a discussion, this is a great opportunity, as is the fact that we in the Riigikogu talk about cultural policy in greater depth than that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U330	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U331	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! My question concerns the Church of Niguliste. One of your predecessors, Rein Lang, as Minister of Culture, promised to return it to the legitimate owner, the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church. The city of Tallinn has opposed this. This has also been about the Supreme Court. To date, no return has been made to the church and no compensation has been paid. How do you see further progress on this issue, as well as the solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U332	This is a matter for two ministries at a time: church affairs are covered by the Ministry of the Interior and cultural matters are covered by our Ministry. So we have to solve this together. If you look at the church building in Niguliste, there is nothing going on right now that has religious content, but it has a great cultural significance. In addition to the concerts and other events taking place all year round, Notke 'Surmatants', which is an invaluable asset, is the cultural value of Estonia. Since this work is centuries old, it is very difficult to preserve it, it requires very specific knowledge and tens of thousands of euros each year. Putting all responsibility on the part of the congregation may not be sustainable. Consequently, the issue must be considered very thoroughly before a recovery decision is taken. But in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, we are dealing with this and we are also negotiating with the former owner on this issue and looking for solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U333	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U334	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, As you know, small local authorities are very concerned about their community houses and cultural objects, as they do not have the resources to repair or maintain. What is the opinion of the Ministry of Culture or the Minister of Culture? Would it not be necessary to create some kind of programme, such as the former RIP, which gave the counties the opportunity to apply for funding for such objects?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U335	There are many programmes now. One part relates to euro instruments, but of course the euro instruments have different objectives. A major debate is being held on what can be done and what cannot be done under a regional competitiveness programme with significant resources. In this respect, jobs are also a prerequisite and cultural houses and their development concept may not always fit under this programme. If we look at the current situation, we have to say that life has changed. There are settlements in local governments where people lived on a massive scale in the fertile conditions of Soviet times, but which have now often dried up. However, there is still a very large cultural house, it has ever been built and the local government is trying to maintain it. From time to time, the question arises as to whether this is really possible. The local government naturally hopes that one day people will return home, that one day cultural life in this particular place will become active again, but from time to time, it is probably important to look very critically at what can be maintained in the long term and whether action is foreseen in these houses. But this is a responsibility that must be assumed by the local government. The Ministry of Culture cannot make population policy decisions here, to which Mr Ratas referred before on one of his questions, nor can it be said that in ten years' time your population will probably be the same or twice as it is today, and that is why it is important to put public resources in this cultural house. This is the task of the local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U336	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U337	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, My question concerns the responsibility you share with other ministers in other areas. First, shared responsibility with the Minister of Justice. During the previous composition of the Riigikogu, the Copyright Act was, as we know, brought to the administration of the Ministry of Justice, but the distribution of money is still carried out through the Ministry of Culture. My question is that for years, there has been no collection of empty tapes, and respectable musicians, performers, phonogram producers and authors have not yet received their money, which has now grown into millions. Honourable members of Singer Vinger sitting right here, too, have lost that money. As a minister, what are you doing to make sure that these performers and other parties concerned are compensated for their fairly earned fees, which, unfortunately, have been running off into the neti resources with piracy? The second area of shared responsibility is with the Minister of Education. As early as 1996, the Riigikogu adopted the decision to build a ready-made music academy hall. Are you gonna stand by to get this hall ready?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U338	I have already answered the second question today. In terms of time savings, I must say that you will find this answer in the Riigikogu verbatim, and of course I am ready to answer you personally afterwards. Out of respect for my fellow Members, I would not be repeating this now because, in fact, the subject has already been dealt with almost twice. As far as copyright law is concerned, it's a piece of work. I'm glad Singer Vinger's men are still pretty tidy at the moment, nothing too bad. But this law is a piece of work, and it's been wrestling here for years. On the one hand, we understand, of course, the Ministry of Culture and I, as a minister, are for the performers and authors to receive a fair reward for their works. On the other hand, regulation in this whole area is very difficult in the rapidly developing world of communication. In that sense, we invent a bicycle. Using the possibilities of modern technology development at the same time, all of us would like to click on music, audiovisual things and access other digitalised cultural values, while at the same time guaranteeing royalty is complex. But I have not yet given up the hope that agreement will be reached in the coming years and that the fee that was once collected from an empty tape tax tape and CD will be fairly paid to authors, performers. At the same time, however, we are also trying to ensure flexibility in order to maintain this added value, the synergy that arises from the very easy access to creation and cultural property.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U339	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U340	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Culture! There are several cultural heritage objects in Estonia that need to be rehabilitated. These objects are very often owned either by municipalities or by private property, but unfortunately there is no means of ordering them. In the village of Kiltsi in Väike-Maarja rural municipality in Lääne-Virumaa, there is an object such as the Kiltsi railway station building, which is very unique and kept in order, perhaps the only one in Estonia at all. Unfortunately, his situation is relatively poor. The Kiltsi people are asking me, and I will now ask you where and if they can apply for funding to fix this Kiltsi railway station.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U341	Thank you very much for a very specific question. Unfortunately, I'm not suggesting that I'm like a living lexicon and I can tell you the possible sources of funding here and now. I am certainly ready to answer this question in writing and will do so in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U342	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U343	Thank you, manager. Dear Minister of Culture, I'm asking about the financing of sport and sports. In my opinion, from a national perspective, sport could play a greater role than it is now. Our good volleyball players, for example, got to the European Championship finals, basketball players too. But when they get there, it's gonna start with all the bullshit that they don't have the money to get in there. I would argue that the final tournament will receive much more attention than, for example, the slogan 'Welcome to Estonia'. I will give you an example of how the Latvian state behaves. In Latvia, there has been an ice hockey MM in recent years, with tens of thousands of foreign tourists who have left quite a lot of money in Latvia. There is now a basketball EM, where over 20,000 people go from Estonia alone, who also take money there. Or a cross of nationalities in Latvia, which took place last year and also had tens of thousands of spectators. The state could also help to organise such events here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U344	Yes, I very much agree that the state could help, and the state will do so. That's how they found extra resources for basketball-EM when they found out they were gonna be needed. In retrospect, I can say that the area itself could have applied a little earlier. As far as volleyball is concerned, yes, they really did not have the opportunity to know in advance what had just happened and what I am very happy about. I can say that I was the Minister of Culture and Minister of Sport at the time of the historic moment when two Estonian ball games were at the European Championship final at the same time. At least that's what I can put on my portable resume. I believe that the volleyball team will certainly not miss such an important event, and the extra money will be found for that. This is due to the organisation of sports and competitions in this area, at which point in time certain things become known, it is different. For example, the biking EM in Tartu in August was known to take place, with 125000 euros scheduled for last year and this year's budget, and the order is going. There was a meeting of the management committee just now. These things are different. As regards the financing of sport at all, it has been scattered. I think this is a place of serious debate, and I am very pleased to be involved in this debate in order to give a slightly clearer picture of where the instruments come from. Then, as a hunch, the sports people should not follow the December state budget procedures on which whether they live or die depends, of course, on the meaning transferred. I very much hope that we are moving towards a more orderly system, and I am ready to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U345	I apologise to my colleague Rein Ratas, but on this item, every member of the Riigikogu has the right to one question. Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U346	Thank you. Honourable waitress! What are the major cultural objects planned to be developed in the 2020 perspective? Rumours have come to my attention about the new Estonia theater and several other objects. What are the cultural objects that you believe will have to be completed by 2020, and how are these major developments to be financed at a time when the state budget does not even suffer from the addition of one national holiday?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U347	This is what I actually touched on here in an earlier reply that the construction of major cultural objects has been subject to the decision of the Riigikogu for years and has been mainly financed by cultural capital through the Cultural Capital Council. According to this decision Kumut, ERM has been financed, and the construction of the hall of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre should go to work. Now it is the decision-making place, which are the following objects, and the decision-making place is the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U348	Mr Toobal, I see you have a third question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U349	Thank you. The first two were procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U350	Yeah, I guess you were.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U351	I was also in the debate when you presented this report to the Committee on Culture. I repeat the same question. Your department promised to do a search before the report reached the main hall and to bring out an interesting calculation. My question is about the salaries of cultural workers. There are three broad sectors that offer wages and jobs for cultural workers. These are the public sector, local governments and NGOs. If the state really starts to raise the salaries of cultural workers at one point on your proposal, it is also known to be putting pressure on the wages of local cultural workers, as well as on the salaries of non-profit cultural workers. What is the current situation, which of these three NGOs, the public sector and local authorities are the wages of cultural workers ahead of those of others and where are they lagging behind? How will this pressure on wages begin to move?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U352	First of all, I apologise if this promise has not been fulfilled. I don't remember exactly what was promised at the time, but I'm trying to fix what it was, and also to ensure that these calculations are presented. This is definitely different from one area to another. As far as the remuneration of cultural workers is concerned, I do not think there is any difference as to whether they receive their remuneration from the state, from the local government or from the NGO, which may also be financed by the state or local government. Ultimately, it is important that people working in this area are motivated. Of course, we must consider that there are always those who would like to be paid much more than the state can actually finance. There's a reasonable line somewhere. The state cannot start providing financial support for all cultural activities; some things are left to the private sector and the maker. However, funding is certainly slightly different when we are talking about institutions operating in buildings of national cultural importance, for example. In this case, it is the duty of the state to ensure the maintenance of buildings which are of national cultural importance, and here we have very good examples of responsibility in the form of several buildings that have been repaired over the years. Of course, needs are greater than there has been money. But recalling the question of Urve Tiidus, former Minister of Culture, about the state of the theatres, I can say that the situation is pretty good in historical theatre houses. In a couple of years, we'll be able to say that everyone's got a ring, they're modern, they're good, they're good, and they're safe.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U353	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U354	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, I think I'm an anchorman, and I'm gonna ask you a simple question that might be a little bit more interesting to the hall. You just arrived from Milan. Estonia took a bold step and built a proud pavilion, Latvians gave up and even Finns were not present with their pavilion. A Russian pavilion was known to be near us, where a very interesting imaginary trick was made in a curved mirror with all viewers. What does our performance in Milan look like, and does it contribute much to Estonia's well-known and Estonian culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U355	I think that's enough. The Estonian pavilion was quite proud to watch. Our opportunity to present Arvo Pärt's work within the Milan Expo under the chairmanship of Tõnu Kaljuste is certainly one of the brands that no one has anything to resist, and of course it attracted attention to everything else that took place there in the framework of our national day. Our pavilion has also received international attention; there is nothing to think about; it has received international attention. So our investment has paid off. Yes, indeed, we had to admit that Estonia was the only Nordic country present. As you rightly pointed out, there were no more. Lithuania was represented in the nearest neighbours. After all, it was somewhat symbolic to be side by side with the Russian pavilion, and I must say that the border between the two pavilions was marked very correctly. There was a beautiful field of rye on our side, and on the Russian side there were properly cut grass and birches. So hopefully our borders will also be fixed just as nicely and correctly, in the example of Milan EXPO.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U356	Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thank you very much for your presentation. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask for a speech chair on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Hardi Volmer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U357	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, I think, with this important day, I'm going to spare you my 45-minute full-time speech. I am bound by a memo simply to draw your attention to some aspects that naturally push the record and name from the content of the cultural site above, where artists, specialists and curators in these fields have written their thoughts and emotions in the light of the basic work of the Ministry of Culture's recent five-year-old 'Principles of Culture Policy'. I would like to draw your attention to the existence of a very serious disease, a terrible disease. International medicine recognizes this as CAD syndrome. It's supposed to be a creation addition directive, sometimes translated into a 'creational addiction'. It's a strange group, these creative addicts. And I know what I'm talking about, because I'm probably in that risk group myself. This is a very serious and severe-costed disease. It almost lacks treatment, and generally infections are obtained at an early age, etc. So this is a strange group, these creative addicts. They're practically the kind of people that beats or sticks or over gold, doesn't matter much, they don't. I mean, they always create, one way or another. Figuratively speaking, tear or four, but this piece of mouth still tends to sing. In recent history, we remember singing, creating, drawing, painting in warfield trenches, and death camps. This is the group whose thoughts I made arbitrarily to draw your attention to a rather perverse phenomenon that a common art and cultural consumer may not be able to see or think like that. Let him quote Sirp. '... it could mean that the art audience does not have to be embarrassed that the art it consumes was born into the maker for social guarantees or free of charge for work. ' 'I certainly do not want to tilt the speech here into a lengthy version of the exclamation 'Give money! '. I want to draw attention to the systemic, structural gap. ' 'I know several famous writers who simply cannot write along with the main work, so many potentially weighty novels are left uncreated. 'Terms of professional experience are not calculated on membership of the Creative Union, but on social tax paid. To do this, a freelance creator must formalize himself as a self-employed person [... ]. Here lies the first contradiction. The aim of the company is to generate profits, while the creative worker is to create cultural goods. '''... I am unclear whether the Ministry of Culture's main focus is on entrepreneurship or culture, at least in the music field. 'The question of what art is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is youth, and so on, is probably not easy. 'In the first three points, the Ministry of Culture states the institutions to which the grant is awarded and the programmes on the basis of which, without explaining the distribution principles and proportions of public support. '''Because the possibilities for artists to earn a living with their creative work are extremely limited [---], Estonian artists are forced to manage themselves with other work. '
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U358	I'm sorry, do you want more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U359	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U360	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U361	'This makes them Sunday artists, amateurs, because achieving excellence alongside other work is a rare exception. ' Here's the phenomenon. Dear friends, if you see our native, your Estonian original culture and art, happen to see it, consume it and enjoy it, think of it as to how often it has been produced, produced, produced, produced by amateurs, which does not rule out that it may not contain a powerful art experience, not to mention that some of them, I imagine, are certainly calling for intense cataracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U362	Thank you. On behalf of Krista Aru Estonian Free Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U363	Mr President! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The foundation of cultural policy is one of the most important documents of the Estonian state. It should even be a document that sets the example for many other strategies, and it should in no way be that cultural policy needs to adapt to existing strategies. Because where we live, the way we behave, it's all about culture, we're all about culture. In my speech, I would not repeat any of the points that Mr Minister spoke about here quite thoroughly, but would make some comments precisely because the document on cultural policy lasts many years and it is certainly possible and appropriate to make some improvements to it. First of all, what is bothering us in society now is a lack of values. Cultural policy should be based on the creation of a value system, both sectoral and cross-sectoral, that is what we need. Values, customs are what we've lost in the meantime. We need not be ashamed that we are looking again for these basics, but we just have to look them in the face, they must be more boldly included in our cultural policy. Where else, if not in cultural policy, should there be a place to highlight such values? The values give us the basis to be open, dialogueable, cooperative in all our cultural activities. And if we are cooperative and open, we can also be sure of our own culture and be happy about it ourselves. That's the second point, that's the pride of your makers. We have creative individuals in not only culture, not only music, not only visual art, but also literature. We need to be able to appreciate the timber products and beautiful patterns characteristic of our folk culture ourselves. Where, if not in our cultural policy, should we be proud of our own culture, which also gives and provides power for further creative activities? And thirdly, the foundations of cultural policy should be the document in which we say that there is no place for bureaucracy in culture. Let's face it! The bureaucracy that started with the European Union's levers, this reporting, this paperwork, has now also reached our national funding and our cultural figures' reports. They are also harassed by the same bureaucracy. There's no way we can stop it, but we can face it. We can face this through the value system created by our cultural policy. The basis for cultural policy is a document by all of us. I hope and believe that cross-cutting cooperation, the reflection of all of us, will help us, when reviewing this document, to enroll these attributes, concepts and also believe in the survival of our own culture, which are essential to society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U364	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Rein Ratas Centre Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U365	Mr President! Honorable Minister of Culture! Good fellows! Our living space as our home country is a single whole that we use and defend, and the part of this whole is certainly a very important component of culture, a broad area. We are based on the belief that the people, the people of Estonia, need culture, but, good Minister of Culture above all, culture also needs people. And it is a great situation that we have an official cultural policy, that is and that we are guided by it. Honour and praise to the authors, to those who accept it! However, we do not have population policy. If I'm not mistaken, during the Mart Siimann government, population policy began to be drafted, but the next government that followed this government ended it. However, if we still want to fulfil the same fundamental objective as the Constitution, I believe that we do need a population policy. My question to you, Minister for Culture, was that you are one of the important beams of the government and that you are not only cultural policy, but also the population policy that is directly linked to it, whether we are going to do this specific policy. Yes, in our legislation, in our development documents, we can find fragments of this policy, but it is not in concrete terms. And also, using the great opportunity that you are here, Minister, I ask you in your house to consider whether, given our living space as a whole, it would not make sense to combine heritage protection and environmental protection in Estonia, like it was during Mart Laar's first government for a while. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U366	Thank you. Laine Randjärv on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U367	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, as chairman of the Committee on Culture, I am extremely pleased that a new tradition has begun: the topic of culture is being discussed in the Riigikogu and this debate will traditionally be held once a year. It is now due to the start of a new government in June, which will perhaps be in the beginning of March. So every March, the Minister of Culture can talk about what happened last year. The current Minister of Culture has been in office for only a few months and therefore, of course, it was difficult for him to describe everything in absolute detail and to know exactly what previous ministers had done and how these processes went. But the officials of the Ministry of Culture were certainly of great help to him, at least in the Committee on Culture the chancellor and all the deputy chancellors were present nicely and introduced their field. I agree with those colleagues who have spoken here that culture is extremely important. I would say that culture is not just one sector or one part of our lives, but it is certainly the roof that covers all other areas. It is therefore extremely important that the Ministry of Culture has close links with other ministries and vice versa. For example, creative industries are covered by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, integration issues in the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Social Affairs, the network of music and art schools and the work of teachers are resolved in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, etc. In fact, there is both resource and danger. There is always a danger that some topics will be tossed between ministries, such as Tatikas and Vesipruul, a dead dog plucked over the fence. There will be a discussion about whose exactly one or the other subject is. In this sense, the Ministry of Culture has a great responsibility to make itself important and important. I am most concerned about the subject of recreational and recreational education. This is a subject in which people get confused, because the law includes an area of interest education concerning music and art schools, schools of fine arts, and an education of interest is all about all kinds of circular activities. And here's the question of how exactly to finance one or another area of law. Without the concrete development and funding of this base, there are actually no peaks either. If there are no qualified teachers in music and art schools in Estonia's regions, there will be no top performers who make the world and thanks to whom Estonia is known in the world. Most of these peaks have come from the music field. This year, for example, Veljo Tormis and Arvo Pärt celebrate their anniversary, whose names are definitely known in the world. But where did they start? They started music school at the very first stage. The problem at the moment is that music schools are "managed" by the local government, and the municipality always has this priority issue where to put the money. It is thought that the music school is not at all the first place to put money, nor is it able to value the teachers who are there. Yes, we can divide the round money by five or ten euros into each child's pocket, but if there is no teacher coming to one region or another, be it Kolga-Jaani, be it Ida-Virumaa or islands, then the child has nothing to do with this round money, because there is no circle to go to. He doesn't have a music or art school or a sports circle to go to. Therefore, it is indeed extremely important to bring to the fore the sustainability of our people, together with the governance issues, together with the issue of state reform. I watched a men's dance in Rakvere this weekend. It was nice watching the little boys dance in the dance court with the big guys, and I thought these were the kids who would never engage in school violence or bully anyone. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U368	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U369	We will proceed to the third item on the agenda: Third reading of Bill No 8 of the Act on Insurance Activities initiated by the Government of the Republic. On behalf of the Group of the Tarmo Tamm Centre Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U370	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The draft Act on Insurance Activities brings Estonian legal provisions into line with the new requirements of the European Union. In this context, there was also an opportunity to modernise the existing law in order to eliminate the resulting inconsistencies between law and practice. One of the main concerns is the activity of insurance brokers. In the course of the procedure for the draft, a question has arisen for which they are directly responsible and for whom they are acting in the right interest. But that's not what I want to talk about. The Centre Party made several proposals to amend the draft law, the most important of which was to allow the establishment of a mutual insurance company, i.e. an insurance association. At present, there is no such possibility and an insurer may establish a public limited liability company or operate as a European company. Insurance cooperatives are one of the forms of cooperative activity that we normally see in banking, agriculture and trade, but also in other areas. Joint action is essential and necessary for the functioning of society. Closer cooperation has usually increased the social success of both the state and the public. In the case of a mutual insurance undertaking, it is a non-profit-making cooperative with the aim of providing a service at a fair price to its members, who are at the same time policyholders. The creation of an insurance cooperative enables the creation of local capital-based insurance companies that act for their members and leave their capital in Estonia. In Finland, cooperatives play a very important role, with around 200 new cooperatives established in different areas per year. We need greater support from the state, but also from local governments, for all cooperative activities. However, as revealed last week by Mr Holsmer, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, the country has been waiting 15 years for a signal from the insurance market to start thinking about it. In the European Union, just over 70% of licensed insurance companies operated as mutual insurance companies in 2004. According to the European Commission, domestic mutual insurance companies do not exist only in Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Lithuania, Slovakia and Estonia. It is unclear how a situation is possible where Estonian consumers do not have an alternative in the form of an insurance association and only profit-oriented services are available. There are currently only two insurance companies based on Estonian capital on the Estonian market; the other service providers act in the interests of international corporations. If we give the opportunity to establish insurance cooperatives, there will be new firms on the market that are interested in acting for the benefit of the local population. It must be admitted that in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the Central Party's proposal to create insurance cooperatives was unfortunately not sufficiently supported. However, according to the Chairman of the Monetary Commission, the Ministry of Finance has promised to continue to deal with the issue of insurance cooperatives. Let me remind you that in the second half of the year we were promised the timetable necessary for the adoption of the new regulation. I very much hope that the Ministry will take the matter to heart and we can talk about it in this Chamber in the fall. In the meantime, thank you for your attention. I promise the Central Party will definitely keep an eye on insurance cooperatives.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U371	Thank you. Please, Andres Ammas on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U372	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Today's final vote on the draft law on insurance business is largely a rewriting of the European directive, which ideally should provide the policyholder with the assurance that he will receive the best possible service at the fairest possible price. Of course, the members of the Free Party Group do not object to this at all. At the same time, our group has repeatedly drawn the attention of the initiators of the draft to the fact that mutual insurance activities, i.e. insurance cooperatives, are not legalised. I will not go over the arguments in favour of insurance cooperatives, which my good colleague, Tarmo Tamm, has just read very accurately here, but I would stress here that the promises made to us by the representatives of the Ministry of Finance would be more credible and reliable if the principle of establishing mutual insurance companies had been included in the draft, even briefly. Interested people would then be able to plan, prepare, and think more seriously about the establishment of such insurance cooperatives. As the principle of mutual insurance companies is not in the draft law, the Free Party Group cannot support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U373	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U374	Thank you, President of the sitting. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, I propose a ten-minute break before the final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U375	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U376	Ladies and gentlemen, The recess requested by the Reform Party Group has ended. Let's go to the final vote on Bill 8. In accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act, the draft requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership to be adopted as a law, so please let us check the presence! 85 members of the Riigikogu are present, 16 are missing. I shall vote on the draft law on insurance business initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There are 56 members of the Riigikogu, against 1, with 5 abstentions. The law has been passed. Ladies and gentlemen, Now I'll take the manager's break for 30 minutes. I also have a message that the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment will convene an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on the Environment, which will begin in five minutes' time in the committee room. I'll see you in 30 minutes. V a h e a eg
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U377	Good fellows! The recess requested by the President of the Riigikogu has ended. I have some information to give you. The President of the Riigikogu has received a letter from the Government of the Republic. Let me read it to you. The content of the letter is the linking of the adoption of the drafts to the issue of government trust. The censure would be voted before the second reading of the drafts in the Riigikogu. The Government of the Republic is bound by the question of trust by the adoption of the following drafts which it has initiated: firstly, draft law amending the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other laws 41; secondly, draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and other laws 40; thirdly, draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act and related amendments to other laws 38. This decision has been made by the Government of the Republic at its meeting today. The Government also asks the Chairman of the Riigikogu to convene an additional session on Monday 15 June 2015 and to plan a second reading of the above drafts within the agenda of this session. As a result, the Board of the Riigikogu has made its decision. According to § 49 (3) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu, acting on a proposal from the Government of the Republic, shall convene an additional sitting of the Riigikogu in the Chamber of Toompea Castle on 15 June beginning at 11 a.m. The agenda for the sitting is as follows: The first item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and other laws. The second item is the second reading of the draft law amending labour market services and benefits and other laws. The third item is the second reading of the draft law 38 amending the State Family Benefits Act and related amendments to other laws. On the proposal of the Committee on the Environment, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu also included a fourth item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Ground and Environmental Charges. Dear colleagues, I have thus informed you of the content of the letter from the Government of the Republic and the decision of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U378	We will now proceed with today's agenda. We have come to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the second reading of draft 39. This is a draft act concerning the accession to the Convention on the establishment of a European Space Agency initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia and the Convention on the establishment of a European Space Agency between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the European Space Agency and repealing the Act on the ratification of the European Cooperation State Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the European Space Agency. I ask Toomas Kivimäe, Chairman of the Economic Commission, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U379	Mr President, thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft again at its meeting on 8 June. There were no amendments from the members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees, although one of the proposals came from the initiators of the draft. Its content is that as soon as Estonia becomes a full member of the European Space Agency, the current cooperation agreement, ratified by the Riigikogu on 22 September 2010, must be repealed in accordance with § 4 of the Accession Agreement signed in Paris on 4 February 2015. It still regulated and regulates cooperation between the European Space Agency and the Government of the Republic of Estonia. Once again: from the moment Estonia becomes a full member of the European Space Agency, this ratification decision must be revoked. This agreement was indeed concluded in 2010 and has since regulated Estonia's cooperation with the European Space Agency. As a result, it is then proposed to supplement it with § 3 of the draft law. In addition, this must be reflected in the title of the draft law, which is why this addition is included in the title. The Committee on Economic Affairs supported this amendment by consensus at its meeting. Secondly, we also dealt heatedly with the questions put by Mr Stalnukhin, and I followed them very closely last time. As regards the use of cash, we addressed the European Space Agency and the English answer we received was this: 'The agency is not dealing with cash anymore. " Perhaps the European Space Agency will no longer be involved in cash, and why it was once involved is more of a historical cause. Indeed, the Convention was opened for signature on 30 May 1975 and has not been amended since then. At the time, cash was used considerably more and was of a different importance than today. So now the European Space Agency has assured us that they are not handling cash. All their funds are in bank accounts and all transfers are also made through banks. The second question concerned diplomatic immunity. Diplomatic immunity is, in fact, limited to the Director General of the European Space Agency, no one else. But indeed, other European Space Agency staff have also been given a somewhat more lenient immunity. There's really nothing extraordinary about it. This is also quite common in other international organisations. However, this is not at all comparable to the diplomatic immunity used, for example, by the ambassadors. The Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the 39th draft law. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U380	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Good waitress, thank you! Do you want to open negotiations? I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Erki Savisaare, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U381	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! In these few minutes, I would like to talk a little bit about the history and background of this bill. Estonia is not a newcomer to space exploration. In the middle of the last century, scientists from the Academy of Sciences and universities participated in several Soviet Union space programmes, but after Estonia regained independence, close cooperation was interrupted. Clearly, today, no country, especially a small country, is able to develop space-oriented capabilities on its own. Some may object here, arguing that the US, Russia and China can do this on their own, but those who know better about this subject and history know that this is not the case and have never been the case. Everyone has needed international help and cooperation in one way or another. In Europe, too, more than 50 years ago, it was recognised that countries needed to cooperate by joining forces for space exploration. The European Space Agency, the abbreviation ESA, was established in 1975, exactly 40 years ago, and only states can be members of this organisation. Estonia's new attempt to join the space states began in 2006 when, according to the decree of the Minister of Education and Research, a working group on space policy was set up, whose main task was to analyse whether Estonia has the capacity to work in space municipality, especially in the space economy, which allows for the development of high-tech directions. By then it was clear that Estonia would have the opportunity to explore space and deal with space technologies only through ESA. The original idea...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U382	Sorry, good waitress! Good fellows, there's too much noise in the hall. Please respect the waitress and those who want to listen to her! Thank you! Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U383	Thank you. The original idea that Estonia could become a member of ESA did not give rise to much support in the government, not to mention the Estonian media, where this topic was not reflected at all. Who doesn't remember these old days, the Prime Minister was Andrus Ansip at the time. However, there was someone who found that this project was necessary for Estonia, and it was the Minister of Economic Affairs, Edgar Savisaar, who, together with Advisor Heido Vitsur, immediately stated that this project was very necessary to encourage our young people to take an interest in the technology required to solve space problems. Of course, there was close cooperation with Ene Ergma. As a member of the European Space Agency, Estonia will have new opportunities to develop and implement space technologies. The so-called trial period so far has shown that Estonia has sufficient capacity to work in this field. The Centre Party has supported this project for the last nine years and I am extremely pleased to be able to vote in favour of this bill here today. I also hope that the other ideas of the Centre Party will soon be supported by the same consensus as this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U384	Thank you. Please speak up, Imre Sooäär.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U385	Thank you, good manager. I am forced to speak on the spot for the sake of the verbatim report, so that half the sisters do not remain in the hall. In fact, communication with the Space Agency has never been interrupted in Estonia. In this very hall, the Speaker of the Riigikogu, the academician Ene Ergma, a member of the IRL, has stood up for this connection all these years and all his initiatives have received the unanimous approval of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U386	Thank you. I don't see any more calls, I'm closing the negotiations. Let us begin the examination of the amendments. I'm asking for your attention and help here, good colleagues! A proposal for amendment of draft 39 has been received from the lead committee and I recall that I was asked to state the position of the lead committee: the proposal has been fully taken into account. We have examined the only amendment. The Governing Commission's proposal is also to put the draft to a final vote at second reading. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Dear colleagues, the approval of bill 39 requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership. Before the final vote, we will do a presence check. Please, presence check! 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14. Dear colleagues, I will put a draft to the final vote 39. Please take a stand and vote. 83 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 2 against and no abstentions. The draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the European Space Agency concerning the accession of Estonia to the Convention establishing a European Space Agency and on the repeal of the Act on the ratification of the European Cooperation State Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the European Space Agency 39 has been adopted as a law. The fourth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U387	We will move on to the fifth item, the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds initiated by the Government of the Republic. Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu speech chair, please present!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U388	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly repeat what this bill is going to regulate. This is a draft extending the possibilities for investing in pension funds assets, allowing for the transfer of the fund's assets to more non-listed securities and real estate and for the acquisition of control holdings in companies. Assets may also be placed in precious metals and related securities. The draft allows for the diversification of pension fund assets, broadening the investment options for pension assets across countries, with the possibility to invest more in Estonia. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 4 May and the first reading took place on 27 May. No amendments were received from the members of the Riigikogu by the deadline. The Commission discussed the preparation of the draft for the second reading...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U389	Good waitress! It seems to me that I, above all, and you, too, are disturbing the sitting of the Riigikogu a great deal. I ask both you and myself to be quiet now so that the Riigikogu can discuss its own matter. Thank you. Good waitress, please, let's continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U390	On 4 June 2015, the Commission discussed the draft and, in consensual cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, made one amendment that would allow for a greater allocation of funds assets in real estate-related securities. The content of this amendment is further explained in the list of amendments. The Commission's consensual proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft. I will also briefly mention what the Commission discussed at its meeting on 4 June. First of all, there was an interest in why the draft did not include this regulation, which the Commission's amendment is now intended to introduce. The initiator explained that the provision was included in the new draft Law on Investment Funds, which has not yet reached the Riigikogu. However, when discussing with pension managers, it became clear that an amendment could still be made to this draft, as there would be more opportunities to invest in real estate from the beginning of next year. The question then was whether, following a change proposed by the Commission, up to 90% could be invested in shares under certain conditions, given that 40% were shares in real estate. The answer was, yes, that is exactly what it is. There was also a question that was already up in this Chamber at first reading: can pension funds invest in loan cooperatives? The answer to this question was that, according to the rule, it must be a legal person with limited liability. If the person's liability is unlimited, the pension fund cannot invest in such person. For example, you cannot invest in a partnership or a limited partnership. The question was that in Poland, for example, pension funds invest heavily in local assets, almost 100%. Why is that? The answer was that Poland in its own time introduced a regulation that forced pension funds to invest their assets in their home country. On this matter, the European Commission opened infringement proceedings, but at the moment it is not known whether the country has changed its rules. The last question was how is it when an investor or a person loses their pension savings. The same question was raised several times at first reading. The answer was that the fund manager still has to be held accountable when it comes to an abusive story. The Financial Supervision Authority supervises, the Financial Supervision Authority is able to impose sanctions. In order to avoid misinvestment or maliciousness, the fund manager is also obliged by law to hold a participation in its fund, as well as to have a Pension Protection Sectoral Fund in the Guarantee Fund. And if investment rules are violated, for example, if an asset is placed in one asset class more than the limit allowed, then the Financial Supervision Authority is the institution that applies sanctions and the administrator has to compensate for the damage. There is no direct liability for normal investment risk where the value of the fund decreases. The administrator shall be subject to maintenance obligations and shall be in the interest of the investor. This was a summary of the Commission's debate. As I said, the Commission decided to propose that the draft be put on the agenda on 10 June. It was a consensual proposal. Secondly, it was decided to propose the termination of the second reading. It was also a consensual decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U391	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let us go to the amendments. One amendment has been received from the lead committee. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed and the fifth item is dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U392	Let us move to the next item: Second reading of the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I ask Kalle Laaneti, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to present the Chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U393	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honorable collection! The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft law on 8 June. The deadline for receiving the amendments by 5 June at 15:00 was one proposal from our colleague Mati Raidma, and we also received proposals from the Government, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. What, then, did Mrs Mati Raidma propose to us? Mati Raidma tabled an amendment concerning § 35 of the Government Act, which provides for the right of a member of the Government of the Republic to compensation in the event of termination of his mandate. Paragraphs 1 to 4 of subsection 2 of that section relate to cases where no compensation is payable. At the moment, in the fourth paragraph, it reads 'if the powers of a member of the government who has been dismissed recover as a member of the Riigikogu' and this does not cover cases of non-payment of compensation when the government resigns in connection with the meeting of the new Riigikogu. The powers of a member of the government who has been dismissed as a member of the Riigikogu as a new elected or alternate to the Riigikogu will not be restored, but a new mandate will be created. The proposed wording aims to bring the law into line with the conduct of the State Chancellery and significantly reduce the possibilities for the Secretary of State and the State Chancellery to interpret the law as they wish. At the meeting of the Commission, it was found that the regulation on the payment of compensation to a member of the government dismissed needs to be clarified. At the same time, it was considered that the wording of the amendment could be interpreted in a number of ways. For example, if a member of the Government of the Republic is dismissed from office but does not take up the duties of a member of the Riigikogu immediately after his dismissal, then you may wonder how far the definition of time extends 'after'. There may be a situation where the compensation should still be paid out because the person's mandate as a member of the Government of the Republic has expired, but the powers of his or her member of the Riigikogu have not yet begun. In addition, there may be a situation where a resigned member of the government already performs the duties of a member of the Riigikogu before the end of the term of office of a member of the government. The Commission considered that this amendment needed to be further developed and did not go well with the idea put forward. In this context, the Commission decided not to support this proposal, but we found that the Commission is ready to take this matter forward and to initiate the draft itself in the future. Now on the amendments that the Commission itself initiated. A proposal had been received from the Ministry of Finance, which wished to clarify the tasks of the Ministry of Finance that would be modified by the draft. The representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that the proposal was to complement the competence of the Ministry of Finance with the task of organising the use of foreign funds. The Ministry of Finance is the managing body for the use of structural grants for the period 2014 to 2020 as well as the managing body for the use of various other external instruments, such as Norwegian and Swiss support programmes. Due to the transfer of the regional area from the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Finance will be given additional responsibilities in organising the implementation of foreign funds. Consequently, this task must be included in the list of tasks falling within the scope of the Ministry of Finance. At the same time, the handling of foreign aid granted to the State is excluded from the list of tasks of the Ministry of Finance. This term is no longer used in practice; the term 'external instruments' also covers external aid. The Commission decided to support this proposal by 4 Commission members, 2 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 3 was tabled by the Ministry of Finance and presented to you by the Commission. The proposal amends the section of the draft amending the name of the Ministry of Agriculture. According to the proposal, paragraph 2 of § 1 (11) of the draft law, which complements the Government of the Republic Act, states that the replacement of the name of the Ministry in the law does not affect the validity of the legislation issued under those laws. The Ministry does not give legal acts, they are given by ministers and, consequently, the change in the name of the Ministry in the law does not affect the validity of the acts which it grants. The Commission also decided to submit this proposal to you by 4 members of the Commission, against 3, with 0 abstentions. Amendment 4 concerns amendments to the law implementing the Construction Code and the Planning Act. The proposal has been prepared in cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The essence is that s. a Two errors have been made in the Act on the Implementation of the Construction Code and the Planning Act, adopted on 18 February, which will enter into force on 1 July. Well, whoever did it happens from time to time, and now a proposal has been made to correct these errors by the time the law enters into force. I would like to remind you once again that this implementing law should enter into force on 1 July. Paragraph 15 of the Building Code and the Planning Act implements the terms 'continuing state-owned land' and 'State-owned land' for land not surveyed or cadastralised or so-called "unreformed state-owned land'. The Land Reform Act does not use these terms. In practice, however, it is necessary to distinguish between state-owned cadastral units and properties and land not surveyed, the owner of which has not yet been designated but is still considered to be owned by the State. It is sometimes necessary to involve the owner of so-called "unreformed land" in the planning procedure and also in the procedure provided for in the Construction Code. This regulation is therefore necessary in law and the concept of "unclear" should be replaced by a more precise one. The representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications noted that the reference to the Natural Gas Act was erroneously left out in the proceedings concerning the same act from § 1581 (11) of the Law of Property Act, which was amended by the Law on Construction and Planning Act, which defines the concept of a utility network and installation built in the public interest. In the course of the linguistic and technical revision of the law, references to specific legal provisions were removed and, by deleting references to the provisions, the reference to the natural gas law itself was erroneously excluded from the law. However, for reasons of clarity, the amendment seeks to introduce the relevant clarification into the law. If, as of 1 July, this provision is not in the law, in practice, owners of natural gas routes may not have a clear right to demand a farm fee. My view is that, according to the legitimate expectations of the people, this is certainly a necessary change. Amendment 5 concerns the law on state fees, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, which provides for the operation of the Competition Authority. The representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that, as the draft brings the Competition Board into the area of government of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, it is proposed to amend the state fee law accordingly. This Act presents, until now, Chapter 8 "Acts of Government of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications' in Chapter 5 "Acts of Government of the Ministry of Justice' of the Law. Thus, the Estonian Competition Authority is transferred from MKM, or the Ministry of Economic Affairs, to the administration of the Ministry of Justice. The Commission decided to present this proposal to you by 4 members of the Commission, against 3, with 0 abstentions. Now for Amendment 6. The Commission's advisor explained that the last proposal concerned the entry into force of the draft. The members of the Commission expressed doubts as to whether the date of entry into force foreseen in the draft was realistic. Life, however, shows that it can be realistic, and so the draft stipulates that the law will enter into force on 1 September 2015. The Commission decided to support this amendment of the enforcement rule by 4 Commission members, against 3, with 0 abstentions. And since some procedural decisions were not taken on Monday, a procedural decision was made on Tuesday to propose that the second reading be stopped. There were 3 members of the Commission with 1 vote against and 0 abstentions. Previously, it was proposed that the third reading be placed on the agenda on 11 June, of course when the second reading is closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U394	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U395	No further questions. I thank the waitress! I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Jüri Adams, please! Bill 36.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U396	Mr. Vice President! I have been a member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu for several months now. If the same goes on, then the other three and more years will be a real trip through wonderland. Every day I discover something that I never thought would be possible. There is still a funny thing about the bill we are discussing. The name of this matter is Amendment 4, which I understand in such a way that the point of the proposal is that the law on the implementation of the building code and the planning law was adopted in the previous composition of the Riigikogu, that there were some shortcomings discovered and that they are now wanted to be removed through a law that is absolutely not related to it. The method used was interesting. The officials of the Ministry of Justice sent the corrections not to the members of the Commission, but to the Commission's advisers directly. And when we began to investigate what the problem was, we received a letter from the Minister of Justice, where he stated that what his subordinate officials were doing was right and good and he supported them. This may all be the case, and I am not fundamentally opposed to correcting errors. But there's one thing I'm really against, and I'm inviting everyone else to be. The point is that there is not one person among the councillors of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs who has some kind of competence in the area of planning and construction law. Similarly, I have not been able to discover such a person among the members of the Commission. It is possible, of course, that someone has denied their expertise in this matter. In my opinion, it would still be reasonable for the Committee on Economic Affairs to assume that there are members of the previous formation, or at least there are councillors who are familiar with it, to take a look at their drafts in the field. And if they say yes, it's all right, then we could approve. Maybe they can do it before the third reading. At the moment, it would make sense to delete this amendment on errors, because if the people who have never left in the mistakes make new proposals, it is always possible that they will make new mistakes. Now I'd like to say a few words about more general matters. In fact, I should have talked about this at first reading, but I had not yet realised that the Rules of Procedure had changed significantly. In time, such talks were not made during the first reading. I missed the right moment to push the button. Will I be given a few more minutes? It's okay, isn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U397	Definitely! Couple of minutes is allowed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U398	I'd like to say a few things. Governments are undoubtedly entitled to draw up such drafts. They're redeploying ministries, moving agencies around. Can't say you can't do that. But there are two aspects. One is that the method used is about the same as Krylov finished. If one orchestra doesn't make very good music, they'll find that now we're going to experiment and put the musicians in a different place. I can't imagine the professionalism of the musicians depending on whether they're being put in a room on one end or the other. Our government coalition will probably approve of these rethinks, but that means the danger that everything will have to be done around in a few years. Is my time running out now?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U399	No, you have a chance to get three more minutes. You want some?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U400	Thank you! I'd use those three minutes, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U401	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U402	The main content of this draft is that one ministry is specially distinguished among Estonian ministries. This is the Ministry of Finance, which is made into a super ministry. This is not the first attempt. In the second half of the 1990s, the Ministry of Justice had the same status, which in the 1990s was the central player in the restructuring of the legal system and the drafting of various large-scale drafts. An external feature of this was that the Chancellor and Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of Justice, Mihkel Oviir and Juhan Parts, rose after this important period of work for high state positions. But when this period had passed, the Ministry of Justice lost its leading role and was gradually deprived of his right of control and veto. At the moment, the problem with this ministry is that there are many officials and few jobs and that they are looking for alternative activities. The Ministry of Finance, which the Government apparently considers to be the most important and in its programming positions the principal ministry leading the state and organising the state's life, will be subjected to all kinds of activities which have no connection with the traditional field of the Ministry of Finance. Hope that the activities that have not succeeded in running other ministries, there, like a magic wand, will flourish and bless us with all the results we hope to achieve, this is, of course, an interesting experiment. I guess we'll see if this redeployment of the musicians will give us more pleasant music than it used to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U403	Thank you. There's more to be said. First of all, speaking from the floor, Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U404	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the members of the Central Party Group also proposed to the Commission and its chairman that they refrain from introducing such bad practice that amendments are made to the draft law that do not correspond to the idea of the draft. I am also talking about Amendment 4. The purpose of the draft law is to make the necessary changes so that the government can start work, but proposal No 4 does not come together with this general objective in any way. And that is why the Central Party Group cannot support this proposal and, as a whole, the entire draft law. We also proposed to the representative of the government in the Commission that we inform ministers of our position so that it would be appropriate for the government to keep a law in parliamentary proceedings entitled 'Law amending different laws' so that all necessary improvements can be made in this way. I hope that the government will not listen to this observation and to this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U405	Riigikogu speech chair Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U406	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am not going to go over what Mr Adams has just said, but I am going to announce that, on the basis of the summary of this speech and the proposal for amendment of the draft, No 4, the Free Party Group proposes that the draft be suspended at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U407	There's no more calls. We will begin the examination of the 36 amendments to the draft. Six amendments have been received. The first amendment is from Mati Raidma, a member of the Riigikogu, which has not been taken into account by the commission. The following amendments, from the second to the sixth, are all proposals by the commission: the second, third, fourth... Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U408	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Mr President of the Commission. My question concerns the deadline for the entry into force of this law. Some of the provisions are planned to enter into force on 1 July. Today we have 10 June and, according to the law, the President of the Republic has 14 days to declare the law after completing the third reading in this Chamber. Thereafter, the National Gazette has seven days to publish it, and then the law can enter into force. That's 21 days. As we know, it is 30 days in June and only tomorrow will it be adopted at third reading. How will the President of the Republic and the Official Journal of the State be able to declare this law in this way or make it a law, just as the deadline is set at 1 July? Aren't you going to force the President of the Republic and the State Gazette?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U409	Thank you. Let's start preparing the voting procedure. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the fourth amendment tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 54 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with 31 abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 5, Amendment 6. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated, but the Riigikogu Board has received a proposal from the Estonian Free Party Group that the second reading of the draft 36 should be interrupted. Let us begin the preparation of the vote on this proposal. I shall put to the vote the second reading of the draft proposal of the Estonian Free Party. Please take a stand and vote. 34 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 54 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading and the sixth item are closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U410	Thank you for your question. Time will tell.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U411	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask for the fourth amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U412	We will move on to the seventh item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Customs Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Riigikogu is pleased to ask for a speech chair by Minister of Finance Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U413	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I hereby give you an overview of the draft law amending the Customs Act, which bears number 22. The draft law amending the Customs Act initiated by the Government of the Republic at first reading envisages the following amendments simplifying customs formalities. First, a natural person is always allowed to declare goods of a non-commercial nature by means of a simplified customs declaration, the so-called "passenger declaration', which has a lower volume of data than a normal customs declaration. A mobile app is coming up, making it particularly easy for a natural person to declare. Under the current arrangements, a natural person must, in certain cases, lodge a customs declaration. Secondly, the possibility of resolving an intellectual property dispute in the context of an administrative procedure is provided for in the case of goods seized under a regulation directly applicable to the European Union and involving individual items. Under current law, disputes are settled before a civil court. Thirdly, the regulation of the uniforms and distinguishing marks of customs officials within the competence of the Government of the Republic is partly assigned to the Minister of Finance and partly to the Director-General of the Tax and Customs Board. In addition, there is a further amendment to the TIR carnets. The purpose of laying down the procedures for granting and withdrawing their authorisation is to increase transparency and legal clarity. The TIR Convention entered into force for the Republic of Estonia on 21 March 1993. So far, the Convention has been implemented "directly," i.e. the law does not provide a specific basis for obtaining and withdrawing the authorisation to use the TIR carnet. The draft does not change the current procedure, but ensures that the applicant for an authorisation to obtain a TIR carnet receives a decision on the granting of an authorisation or refusal of an authorisation within a time limit, in writing and in a motivated manner. This is also the case if the authorisation is to be withdrawn as a result of infringements committed by the TIR carnet holder. In granting the permit, the permit committee involving state officials has a say, but the final decision is made by the guarantee association, the Estonian Association of International Car Carriers. The deadline for the entry into force of the Act is 1 November 2015. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U414	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the Minister? Minister, thank you, there are no questions. I ask Maris Lauri, member of the Economic Affairs Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U415	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Economic Commission discussed the draft law amending the Customs Act at its meeting on 2 June. Mr Sven Sester, Minister of Finance, had been invited to the meeting of the Commission to present an overview of the objectives and content of the draft. In addition to the Minister, the Head of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy of the Ministry of Finance, Marek Uusküla, and Piret Liira, the chief specialist of the same department, answered questions from the members of the Commission. First of all, it was asked to clarify the enforcement of intellectual property rights by customs in section 1 (4) of the draft, as the draft contains only a reference to a direct European regulation. It was clarified that there were two procedural steps from which the draft regulates the second, i.e. the situation where the consignee has objected to the customs authorities' claim that the goods infringe intellectual property rights, and the customs authorities have communicated this objection to the holder of intellectual property rights. The draft provides that the holder of intellectual property rights can submit a request to the customs authorities to settle the dispute as to whether the intellectual property rights have been infringed. In the case of a valid right to appeal to a civil court, the draft allows the dispute to be settled by administrative procedure and the customs authorities can ask the parties for evidence and explanations in support of their assessments. Such administrative procedures are permitted only in the case of small consignments of goods, i.e. mainly concerning goods arriving by post. However, in the case of a large consignment of goods, the dispute should still be settled before the courts. At present, a small batch of goods is defined in the EU Regulation with a maximum of three units or a gross weight of less than two kilograms. The obligation to declare air passengers was also asked. The reply indicated that the obligation to declare is the result of the law and that air passengers coming from third countries, for example, need to know for themselves such an obligation and which goods to declare. So people are expected to be responsible. It was requested to know who would decide whether the goods were of a commercial nature or of a non-commercial nature. The answer was that the final decision would be taken by the customs official. As a general rule, it can be assumed that a natural person does not engage in trade. In the committee, the following was decided by consensus: firstly, to propose to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session on 9 June, but in the preparation of the plenary agenda, the Bureau of the Riigikogu put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session by 10 June, i.e. today, secondly, to propose to close the first reading, and thirdly, to propose to set a deadline of 10 working days for amendments, i.e. 26 June at 16 a.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-10_U416	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I thank the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. The position of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. I will set the deadline for tabling 22 amendments. tho 26 June 2010 at 4 p.m. The first reading is closed and the seventh item is also dealt with. Good fellows, our hearing today is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 8:38 p.m.
