ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-01_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the first Wednesday session of the first plenary session. First, I'm gonna ask if anyone has any drafts to hand over. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-01_U2	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I have a very important bill that has nothing to do with the fact that today is April 1. This is a draft law supplementing § 48 of the Income Tax Act, which complements this section as follows: 'The employer's expenses in covering the costs of dealing with sports by an employee or servant, which do not exceed EUR 500 per employee or employee in the calendar year, shall not be regarded as a special advantage. ' These costs, which would not be subject to a special preferential tax, are the costs associated with the use of sports facilities, the fees for participating in recreational and health sports events and the costs of organising sporting events. The draft has also been discussed in the previous Riigikogu, but we are now in a situation where the manifesto of the Estonian Employers' Confederation stated that the state and entrepreneurs must invest in human health alongside him. In order to encourage investment in people, this same employer manifesto suggests not to treat employer's investment in employee health as a special advantage. The work material presented before the VIII Estonian Sports Congress, entitled "Estonian Fundamentals of Sport Policy 2030', also considers that treating expenditure on the health of workers as a special advantage is an obstacle to the development of the Estonian sports movement. I know that there are quite a number of political groups in this Riigikogu Chamber who support this bill, and I hope that the draft will reach second reading after the first reading and will soon be passed as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-01_U3	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-01_U4	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, I have the honour of handing over our first draft law within this Riigikogu. This concerns one part of the democracy package that we have put forward, which, I believe, we are gradually beginning to realise here. This draft is, however, the draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act, which concerns the ranking of Riigikogu electoral lists according to the weight of the votes received, i.e. the so-called open list principle. It is recalled that drafts and proposals with similar content were also discussed in the previous composition of the Riigikogu. Almost all political parties have confirmed their support for this principle and I think that there are even more parties in this Riigikogu. I hope that, unlike the previous composition, these drafts will not remain in the table drawer of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but will also reach the final vote and adoption. However, seeing that the honourable chair and this Riigikogu have great difficulty in launching work, forming political groups and committees, I recall that there are also deadlines for the first reading of the draft, and I hope that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will soon be formed and will start to function in such a way that we can meet these deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-01_U5	Thank you. I have adopted two draft laws on behalf of the management board, and the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides that they will be processed in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now I have a lot of messages for you. Pay attention! Indeed, immediately after the end of today's sitting, nine parliamentary groups and two support groups will be set up in this very Chamber. I will read out what these groups are and the name of the member of the Riigikogu, who is the convener of the group. This means that if you want to join one group or another, see where this vigilante is in this room and come near him. Parliamentary groups are formed: Estonia-Finland, convener Kalle Palling; Estonia-USA, convener Kadri Simson; Estonia-United Kingdom, convener Mailis Reps; Estonia-China, convener Kalev Kallo; Estonia-France, convener Andres Herkel; Estonia-Germany, convener Kalle Palling; Estonia-Japan, convener Anne Sulling; Estonia-Kazakhstan, convener Deniss Borodich; Estonia-Ukraine, convener Johannes Kert. Two support groups are also set up: the sports and exercise support group, the conveners Jüri Jaanson and Lauri Luik, and the Taiwanese support group, the convener Kalle Laanet. Please, let's do the presence check! There are 97 members of the Riigikogu, missing 4. Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 2.07 p.m.
