ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the eighth working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. My question is this: does anyone have any drafts or inquiries? Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U2	Very honourable President of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Economic Commission, I submit to the Riigikogu the draft decision 'Appointing the members of the Board of the Estonian Development Fund'. According to the Estonian Development Fund Act, the Riigikogu appoints five members of the Supervisory Board of the Development Fund on the proposal of the Economic Commission, two of which are members of the Riigikogu and three are representatives of the public and business. Since in the meantime there was such a great thing as Riigikogu elections, this means that the Riigikogu has received a mandate to rename two candidates to the Council of the Development Fund. In addition, the end of s. a on 6 June the mandate of two representatives of the public and of entrepreneurship as a member of the Board of the Development Fund. That is why we are putting forward a draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U3	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft decision of the Riigikogu to be passed on to the Government of the Republic. We are already dealing with a number of very positive issues in the Riigikogu, namely the student chess and how to support those young people who are very eager to get into the chess, but who remain at the door because of the queue. There are already more than 400 young people on the waiting list this year, who would very much like to have a student chess experience. There is a constant need to find more enterprising people who would like to enrich these young people with work experience. As a result, people close to the chess have been proposing for years that one of the possible support mechanisms should be social tax exemption on wages. I hope you all know that children are guaranteed national health protection either way, through their parents and because of our decisions. This exemption would be a very pleasant reason for businesses to favour these young people. In the previous Riigikogu we talked about this topic both in the large hall and in the Committee on Culture, and the Government of the Republic decided to make this idea a reality, but it was not possible in four years. We are reminding you that there is now a new government and could bring it up again. The chess dove is at the door. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U5	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U6	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I would like to pass on an inquiry to the Minister for Rural Affairs. On 5 May, the Director-General of the PRIA Jaan Kallas announced in the Committee on Rural Affairs of the Riigikogu that the procedure for the disbursement of the PRIA grants has changed or is planned to change. As a result of restructuring, farmers will receive payments not at the end of the year, but from February to April next year. The same was claimed on 25 May in the Committee on Rural Affairs by the representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, Illar Lemetti. In this context, we ask the Minister for Rural Affairs to answer the following questions: Does the Minister responsible for the activities of the PRIA intend to take additional measures to ensure that the agricultural payments are still paid out at the end of the year and not several months later? How does the Minister intend to compensate farmers for the several months of late payment?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U7	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U8	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of ten members of the Riigikogu, I will report an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. The issue of questioning is bureaucracy in the preparation of travel documents. Here's what's going on. Today, over 7 billion people live on earth. Before us, 98 billion more have lived here, as scientists claim. So a total of 105 billion and all of us are united by one thing-- our uniqueness. We all have different prints. In the last 150 years, no one has been able to prove that there are two people in the world whose fingerprints are collapsing. However, it seems that our laws fear that something like this might happen. If you are going to complete a travel document, you will be required to have fingerprints. You're saying that, but wait, wait, wait, 25 months ago, you already gave me your fingerprints and they're in the database. You will be answered that yes, they do exist, but according to the laws of the Republic of Estonia, if it has been more than two years since the last fingerprinting, the person is obliged to give them again. I do not understand whether this is just bureaucracy or whether our leading bureaucrats, or members of the government, are afraid that in this two years I grew new fingers or got new fingerprints. I'd like to talk to the Minister of the Interior about who needs all this.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U9	On behalf of the board, I have adopted two draft laws and two inquiries. These are carried on by the Management Board on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Before we go any further, there's a message. Today, at the end of the plenary session, there will be an inauguration meeting of the Support Group for pensioners in this Chamber, convened by Raivo Põldaru. Please, let's do the presence check! There are 87 members of the Riigikogu, no 14. Honourable Riigikogu, next we need to confirm the agenda for the week. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U10	On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I propose that the second item be removed from the Wednesday agenda of this week, the first reading of the draft law amending the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic, as it is a draft bill. These laws constituted three drafts on the coordination circle of the Government: the amendments to the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and other laws were dealt with separately; the amendments to the VAT Act were dealt with separately; and thirdly, separate excise duties were dealt with. For some reason, all this has been brought to the Riigikogu as a cluster bill, which does not allow the draft to be dealt with normally. It also takes the opportunity to discuss these issues in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, because several laws are being amended at the same time, among others the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act, but every member of the Riigikogu can only ask two questions. So the proposal is to remove this draft from the agenda. In addition, I would like to draw the Bureau's attention to the decision of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, according to which, although this is a very large draft, the principle laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu is that, after the first reading, there are ten working days to table amendments. This time is reduced to only three working days. Clearly, a number of agreed principles are being violated here: there is a cluster bill, there is not enough time left to make amendments and the Finance Committee discussed the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act, but the opinion was not sought from the Riigikogu committee, which should deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U11	The proposal is clear. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U12	Honourable President of the Riigikogu, I inform you that the Reform Party Group is against Kadri Samson's proposal to remove this draft from the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U13	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question, too, concerns item 2 on the Wednesday agenda and the topic of the draft cluster. The Management Board of the Riigikogu has, by decision, approved the norm of the drafts to be dealt with in the Riigikogu, which states in § 2 (1) of Chapter 2 'Requirements for the draft law': 'The bill of law [---] is drawn up for the legal regulation of the same type of social relations. ' So this is a bill request. As the chair of the sitting and as the chairman of the Riigikogu, can you tell us how there is a connection, for example, between the amendment of the Health Services Organisation Act and the increase in VAT on accommodation establishments?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U15	Thank you. The Riigikogu adopts drafts initiated by those who have the right to do so. The Commission will decide whether or not any drafts are to be drawn up. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U16	Thank you. However, according to the Rules of Procedure, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has the right not to initiate draft laws submitted to Parliament in this Chamber and not to appoint leading committees for them. Unfortunately, the Governing Board, under your direction, has taken this cluster bill into procedure and appointed it to a commission of directors. My question is the appointment of a commission. Will it be normal in the future for the Committee on Monetary Affairs to discuss, for example, the Health Services Organisation Act and the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U17	If the Riigikogu Board, when examining the draft, considers that this is justified, any Riigikogu commission may discuss this draft. True, it rarely happens. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U18	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. This bill was also dealt with in a relatively accelerated manner by the government. For example, the Estonian Employers' Confederation said that they were unable to make amendments or express their opinions because they were given only four working days to do so. Now, from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, a proposal came to your table that, instead of ten working days, the deadline for submitting amendments is three working days. § 99 of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure states that you can shorten this time to three working days if there is a justification. You haven't approved this shortening yet. Are you prepared to give the opposition the normal time to make amendments, or ten working days?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U19	Good Kadri Simson, this question was not about the adoption of the agenda. The President of the Riigikogu is not a fortune teller. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U20	Thank you, Mr President. My question certainly applies to the agenda. The subject is agenda item 2 on Wednesday. It seems that this law of Murphy, which says that the length of a minute depends on which side of the toilet door you're standing on, is absolutely correct. According to memory, it has not been so long since we were together in the Centre Party and the Social Democrats, and we all spoke more or less the same thing in this Chamber. At the time, we referred to the same work code that has been discussed. What has changed since then? If a few years ago there were very clear grounds for objecting to the cluster bill, what has changed now?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U21	This question, too, was not about the agenda to be adopted. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am still asking about the second item on Wednesday. The issue is clearly on the agenda. On 29 May s. A letter was sent to you by Kadri Simson, Chairman of the Centre Party Group, asking you to draw the attention of the Government of the Republic to ensure that no more cluster drafts are sent to Parliament. Have you been familiar with this letter and have you been in contact with the Government of the Republic on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U23	Thank you. I have read this letter, but I considered it necessary that the Riigikogu's Board of Directors examine it as well, which will do so tomorrow. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U24	Thank you. I'm still asking about the same item. You personally said in 2011 that the cluster drafts sent by the government to Parliament are often incomprehensible and impractical and lead to confusion and incompetent proceedings in committees. You have also said that for the sake of convenience, the government is simply trying to cross the Riigikogu with related drafts. Have you changed your position on the cluster bill as Chairman of Parliament? The draft law amending the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic at first reading under the second item on the agenda of Wednesday is obviously a cluster bill. Even the title does not reflect all the draft laws that come to trial under this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U25	Honourable questioner! If my personal views were reflected on the agenda, the agenda would, frankly, look quite different. The Board of the Riigikogu must be guided by what has been initiated and which has been presented by the committees. Mr Simson's proposal has been rejected by the Reform Party Group and, under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, we do not take this into account. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U26	My question concerns this week's agenda. Couldn't you share your thoughts on the subject that if it were up to you, what would the agenda be like? Maybe the coalition will listen to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U27	I will be happy to share these thoughts once we have approved the agenda. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on this week's agenda... Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U28	Thank you. I ask for a ten-minute break before the vote! Then you can also explain to your coalition fellows what this cluster bill looks like, which changes very different laws that are not directly or mentally related to each other. So I'm gonna need a ten-minute break, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U29	Thank you. Break ten minutes. We'll proceed at 3:27 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U30	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the eighth working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 48 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, with 37, no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U31	Let's start according to the approved agenda. The first item is the inquiry submitted by Jaanus Karilaidi, Lauri Laas, Märt Sults, Kadri Samson and Enn Eesmaa, members of the Riigikogu. On behalf of the heirs, Jaanus Kariliid takes the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U32	Ladies and gentlemen, On 28 April, the members of the Central Party Group submitted an inquiry to Defence Minister Sven Mikser concerning insufficient funding of the Defence Union, unreasonable public procurement and rules for the use of additional force in public order. It is, in itself, very positive that this question of understanding is coming to the answer right now, because we now also know from the NATO Military Committee General Petr Pavel that it is possible to occupy the Baltic States in two days. Even before that, the President of the Republic spoke about four hours in this context. But our inquiry focuses on three problems. Today, more than 21000 people are members of the Defence League and its special organisations, and there are growing numbers of good new citizens. At the same time, the Defence League as an organisation is unable to make sufficient contributions to the training of defence allies due to under-funding, because an amount which is largely below 8% of the defence budget does not offset the necessary costs. When dealing with the defence allies, it turns out that besides everything else, there is a sharp lack of equipment and it is said that it is often not possible to separate even the form of the Defence League from the new members. That's the first problem. The second problem concerns the procurement of public procurement for tent coats. If we compare these tent coats to the forms of the Defence Forces or the Defence League, we will see that their disguises are much worse. The third issue concerns the amendments to the law on law enforcement, which will enter into force in 2016, under which the Government of the Republic, with the agreement of the President, can authorise the involvement of members of the Defence Forces and the Defence League in ensuring public order. In practice, however, such a need arises unexpectedly, and in the event of a conflict, speed is the main factor. In making these changes, however, it was unclear how long the formal procedure would take and how this would affect the resolution of the situation. As a result, we have three questions. We expect answers from the Secretary of Defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U33	The question must be answered by Secretary of Defense Sven Mikser. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U34	Honourable President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I congratulate you on Child Welfare Day and also on the successful implementation of the Riigikogu session! The members of the Centre Party Group have asked me three questions. I am very pleased that the starting Riigikogu is so eager to pay attention to national defence issues. During the last year of the Riigikogu, no inquiries were made to the Minister of Defence; now the starting Riigikogu has already submitted two of them. I find such an interest in an extremely important area of state life to be very commendable. But now to the questions. The first question: 'How do we plan to improve the funding and framing of the Defence Union, and to what extent are we planning to raise the budget of the Defence Union and its paid membership to the level required by the tasks assigned to it? ' I will begin by responding to the fact that the Estonian military defence solution has been defined by a document approved by the Government of the Republic, entitled 'National Defence Development Plan'. According to this document, the military structure of the Defence Forces is equally important and has a role to play in terms of staffed units with professional active troops, reserve troops and members of the Defence League. This is one whole, each part of which complements the others, and the functioning of each depends on the functioning of the others. All these military structural units, including the Defence League units, will be fully armed and equipped by 2022, according to current plans. Estonia develops military protection on the basis of long-term, threat assessments and military advice, as well as resource-based realistic plans. I am of the opinion that military capabilities are only fully manned, armed, equipped and also stock-backed. Based on this understanding, our primary focus is on developing a comprehensive rapid response structure. It is perfectly understandable that the Defence League is a unique organisation that brings together a voluntary defence will. It also includes a large number of people who are not part of our primary rapid response structure for military protection. Among other things, people who, as a result of the post, in the event of war, must continue to work in their current position of critical importance to the state, for example as a member of the Riigikogu or as a police officer. Of course, the contribution of all defence allies will be valued and their voluntary desire to participate in national defence will be maximised by acquiring equipment, forms and other necessary training. At the same time, the primary focus, based on resource constraints, is clearly the full supply of military-time units, including the Defence League's military-time units. Among other things, stocks that may not appear at first sight to the public are under consideration, but the absence of which does not allow the tasks of wartime to be adequately carried out, such as ammunition for military time. The Defence League is financed mainly through a dedicated grant from the Ministry of Defence, which represents more than 98% of the estimated revenue of the Defence Union this year. This targeted support for the Defence Union has steadily increased over the years: in 2011 it amounted to 21.4 million, a year later to 25.5 million, in 2013 to 26.5 million, last year to 30.4 million and this year to 32.6 million euros. The task of the Defence League, including the preparation of the state's military defence capabilities in the amount determined by the Commander of the Defence Forces, as well as activities related to increasing the membership of the Defence League, training and motivation, is fixed in the agreement on the allocation of this support. In addition to this provision, procurement by the Defence Union, including individual equipment and unit equipment, as well as infrastructure investments such as the development of shooting ranges, will be financed from the budget of the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence. The direct costs incurred in participating in exercises by the Defence League Defence Forces shall also be borne. It can therefore be said with absolute certainty that the volume of activities related to the Defence Union is more than 8% of the defence budget. Of course, in addition to the financial dimension, human resources also play an important role. Ensuring an increase in the army's active troops has been a constant focus in the area of government in recent years. Understandably, an adequate increase means the possibility of increasing the number of active troops in the Defence League. All authorities in the area of government contribute to the realisation of this increase by designing a wage policy that is consistent with the cost of living, by valuing the profession of an active soldier, for example through a Veteran policy, as well as by practicing flexible, fair and affordable housing policies conducive to internal rotation. So much for the first question. The second question: 'In which cases does the Minister of Defence personally check and request clarification on the requirements, conditions and feasibility of major procurements, and by which do you explain that the defence budget is not always used in a rational way? " Procurement plays a pretty important role in the implementation of the military protection model. Defence procurement is defined as specific procurement programmes in the light of the principles of capacity building agreements, i.e. analysis and preliminary work resulting from the National Defence Development Plan. These projects are approved by the Minister of Defence in terms of time, resources and requirements within the framework of the medium to four-year development plan. Each procurement shall be preceded by an in-depth analysis, specific requirements for the equipment to be procured and the armaments element shall be drawn up. This preparatory work is usually done by the best experts from the Defence Forces and, where appropriate, by external experts and specialists from outside the Defence Forces. The fundamental choices concerning the development of superpowers, such as specific weapon platforms, are, of course, made at the level of the Ministry's leadership, but they also always take into account military advice from the Commander of the Defence Forces. It will also be decided at the level of the Ministry's leadership and taking into account military advice from the Commander of the Defence Forces, further handling and processing of procurements and infrastructure objects that may be different from those planned. Regular reviews of the implementation of the procurement plans are also a normal part of the ministerial and ministry management's work programme. The annual nomenclature of the weaponry and supply elements to be supplied contains over a thousand names. It is certainly neither practical nor realistic at ministerial level to intervene in very simple procurement. So it is the responsibility of the Minister and the Ministry's leadership, in particular, to deal with the major, fundamental, international and political dimension of procurement choices. It is reasonable to leave the technical preparation and organisation of more daily and routine procurement to an appropriate level of expertise. This level may vary in the case of procurement. A long and exciting debate can certainly be held on the national defence solution at political level, but I cannot accept the argument that the use of resources in the Ministry of Defence has been ineffective in implementing the development plan approved by the Government of the Republic. The Ministry of Defence, as well as all other public authorities, is subject to external auditing. No significant or regular shortcomings have been identified in the audits of the National Audit Office to my knowledge. The third question: 'If there is a need to involve the Defence League or the Defence Forces in the defence of public order during peacetime, what time resource is planned for the official procedure and please state the arguments, do you think this is sufficient, and how will such an official process work on weekends and public holidays? " We must start with the emergency law governing involvement in public order during the peacetime of the Defence Forces or the Defence League. Four main cases have been identified. Firstly, traffic management during emergency situations and security in the emergency area. Second, the prevention or prevention of the following offences referred to in the sections of the Penal Code: a terrorist offence, § 237; intrusion into the office of a state or local government, § 240; attacks aimed at the life and health of an internationally protected person, § 246; invasion of land, building or space with diplomatic immunity, § 248. Third, preventing or preventing damage to a high-risk object. Fourth, temporary limitation or suspension of the crossing of a state border in the case referred to in § 17 of the State border Act. The proposal to involve the Defence Forces or the Defence Union is made to the Government of the Republic by the Minister responsible for the field and must also be coordinated with the Minister responsible for the field, who is the Minister for Defence. Decisions taken in these paragraphs to use the Defence Forces or the Defence League for the performance of their tasks shall be taken by the Government of the Republic with the consent of the President of the Republic and with his or her order. In order to involve the Defence Forces or the Defence League in public order during peacetime, no specific time criterion has been set as to how quickly this formal coordination process has to be carried out. It certainly depends on any particular individual situation, but above all, it is important that the Minister responsible for the field should make a proposal to the Government of the Republic in concert and that this proposal be received in due time. I believe that the speed of decision-making will then depend on the government's ability to make these decisions. The country's strategic management has operational and secure communication channels. This will provide technical guarantees for the necessary speed of response to all urgent decisions. The Defence Forces and the Defence League have a degree of operational readiness during peacetime to respond to public order tasks, for example, with sufficient speed. In these cases, weekends or public holidays are certainly of no decisive importance, since active troops can be called into service immediately by order. In the case of defence allies, weekends are rather a positive factor, because that is when the basic training of defence allies takes place. So much for the three questions asked. I am happy to respond to further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U35	Questions for the Minister. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U36	Thank you. Good minister! It was only recently that the grand training "Silk," attended by the Defence League with conscripts, reservists, active troops, and our allies' units, ended. What do the conclusions of this exercise tell us about the funding of the Defence League? Do they somehow indicate underfunding, or did everyone do their job well?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U37	According to the first feedback and most recent analyses, the grand training "Silk" showed that our active troops, the reservists and also the defence allies were up to their duties. The main or, let's say, the central task of this exercise was to test the ability and feedback of our Defence Forces units to form and mobilize. However, the lessons can certainly be drawn from this exercise, which will require action in the future to make the procedures and activities of the Defence Forces even better both in terms of mobilisation and in practice in the performance of military tasks. In particular, this exercise did not provide any critical feedback on the funding of the Defence League. It is clear that we are operating under limited resources. The financial resources of the structures and institutions of the Defence Forces, the Defence League and other areas of the Ministry of Defence lay their limits, while the funding of the Defence Union is always planned in close cooperation between the Defence League, the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence. For example, when planning the budget of the Ministry of Defence this year, the Defence League's wishes were fully taken into account. As I also said, the part of the Defence Union in the budget of the Ministry of Defence's administration is far from limited to a dedicated allocation, for example, supply procurement is organised by the Defence Forces or the Ministry of Defence and is not part of this dedicated allocation. There are certainly activities that could be done even better if there were additional resources, but the 2% of GDP we use to create and develop the country's military defence capabilities is limited in size. Any additional allocation made for one or the other will definitely come at the expense of something. So I think that our decision to give the highest priority to the creation, supply and provision of military time units is right. This applies in the same way to the Defence Forces and the Defence League units, as well as to the units manned by both active and reserve forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U38	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U39	Thank you, manager. Thank you, too, for your answers. Points 39 and 50 of the National Defence Strategy adopted five years ago call for the development of guerrilla activities and for the organisation of the resistance movement in the event of war in the occupied territory of the enemy. So far, the armed forces have lacked formal training and preparatory work for this. Only a few troops are the exception, but that's not enough. When will this important part of the defence strategy be implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U40	Thank you. All activities of the Ministry of Defence's administration, infrastructure investments, procurement of equipment and armaments, as well as training, are carried out on the basis of political planning documents and sub-level planning documents. All of them aim to develop a defence force that is fully trained, manned, equipped and equipped. The Defence League has a number of tasks in this regard. As has been said, the Defence League has tasks directly related to the military defence of the State, including defence tasks, such as tasks related to the activities of the Defence League's battle groups. All these tasks relating to the military defence of the State are and must be guaranteed by resources and plans.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U41	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U42	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You mentioned that there are over a thousand names in the annual procurement nomenclature, and the Minister does not deal with all of them. Of course he doesn't have to. Last year Estonia acquired armoured vehicles. There were a little over 40 of them, and the cost of this whole thing was over 100 million euros, if I remember the amount correctly. At the same time, Finland also bought tanks for itself. He received a little more than twice as many, or 100, tanks from us and cost EUR 200 million. So the tank was cheaper for Finns than for us. Were you personally involved in this procurement? Can you explain why these armored vehicles cost us a lot more than the tanks for the Finns?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U43	Thank you. I certainly do not know all the fine details of the technical condition of the tanks to be procured by Finns and the future costs of their life cycle. But it can be said that the procurement of the Estonian Defence Forces has been organised on the basis of our long-term procurement plans, where the development of armoured manoeuvring is also planned for a stage, moving to the heavier one. If you have planned to acquire infantry combat vehicles and plan the structure of your military defence for this unit equipped with combat vehicles, then it may not be very reasonable to re-orient yourself to another element of equipment simply because it is said to be cheaper. I think that almost never makes sense. Certainly, the price of weapons items depends on the technique used, the situation of the aftermarket, and how old and in good technical condition these equipment or weaponry elements are. The cost of their use, the length of the remaining life cycle and the regular annual maintenance needs must also be taken into account. So it cannot be said that, for example, if the total purchase price for the Finnish tank purchase is marginally higher than the purchase price for our armored vehicles or infantry combat vehicles, then Finns will necessarily have better procurement or that our procurement is bad or poorly prepared. This is a long-term planned procurement and a very good weapons system when we are talking about the infantry battle machine CV90. It's a piece of equipment in a remarkably good condition, that's exactly the weapons system we've been planning to acquire. Compared to so-called potatoes and oranges, we can say that compared to the weapons systems of the same class, their availability and price on the market, these CV90s have been obtained in Estonia under significantly favourable conditions. Pressing around such things is certainly possible and sometimes inevitable, but in order to understand the goodness of one or the other transaction or the cost of the so-called life cycle of the arms we procure, we need to dig a little deeper.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U44	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U45	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Honourable Minister! As an retired officer, I was very unpleasantly surprised when the NATO General said that it would only take four days to occupy the Baltic States, and our honourable President Ilves said that it would take four hours to occupy Estonia. My former assumptions and nightmares were very accepted in places as confirmed. I want to ask you what capacity and what you're talking about, if you don't have a broad-based Defence League, if you don't have a guerrilla war and if you have four armored cars, one tank and one fighter jet. Who are you going to fight against?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U46	Thank you. First of all, honourable member of the Riigikogu, I think that this kind of your-our-distribution is completely inappropriate here. I hope that we are on the same side of any conflict affecting Estonia. I really hope so. The overview at your disposal of the weapons and equipment of the Estonian Defence Forces is also somewhat inaccurate. If it gets more serious, then, of course, in the assessments you read in the press, whether the words of the new chairman of the NATO Military Committee or the President of the Republic of Estonia, there is a certain number of such journalistic, I would say, metaphor. Certainly Estonia and our southern neighbours are not occupied or conquered in a few days or hours. In the case of defence planning, there are a number of parameters that need to be taken into account: the pre-warning period, the situational awareness, which allows for an extension of the pre-warning period, our initial response and our primary protection capability. It is certainly also our willingness to protect Estonia with allies, i.e. our support capacity as the host country. Also, what are the defence plans of our allies, let's say, NATO as a collective defence organisation, and how these plans are guaranteed by specific units and specific military capabilities. It is clear that all protection plans are based on risk assessments. When preparing risk assessments, of course, the political will of the potential opponent must take into account both the military threat and the real capacity at his disposal, including the speed of its transfer. Estonia has been planning its own defence on the basis of real risk scenarios. After Russia's aggression against Ukraine started a little more than a year ago, our allies have also become much more aware of who our eastern neighbour is dealing with and what needs to be done to be better prepared to prevent and reject any provocative or aggressive steps. An important part of this is the permanent presence of the allies on Estonia's surface, which has a strong deterrent function, but which will also make it possible to start defending Estonia together much faster if the real threat scenario materialises. The protection plans already mentioned, as well as joint exercises, are based on the real collective defence scenarios you have been able to see, if you have followed closely enough, over the past year, much more regularly and on a larger scale than you have seen in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U47	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U48	Thank you! Honorable Minister! An inquiry is a form of work in the Riigikogu where there is usually a certain opposition tension inside, because something is kind of out of order. I will now give you an opportunity to talk about how it is planned to develop the equipment and infrastructure of the Defence League in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U49	The equipment and infrastructure of the Defence Union shall be continuously developed. As has been said, the use of the so-called dedicated allocation of the Defence League will be extensively negotiated between the Defence League and the Defence Forces as well as with the involvement of the DOD planners. According to the National Defence Development Plan, the supply and provision of supplies for all military time units should be 100% by 2022. It concerns, as I said, the Defence League units, but of course, the units of the Defence Forces, both active and reserve personnel. Training of units for land protection will continue. All militias belonging to the military structure of the Defence Forces will be fully equipped with essential elements of personal equipment such as night vision equipment and flak jackets. In addition to the ammunition required for training, supplies of all types of ammunition shall be provided at a specified or agreed level. The defence structure will be given significantly better anti-tank capability. As you probably know, we are in the process of purchasing a third generation anti-tank Javelin, which, in addition to the Defence Forces, will also be used by the Defence League's wartime structural units. Three new shooting ranges will be built to support the training of the Defence League. As was the case in several years before, the Defence League is expected to improve the infrastructure for investment funds of EUR 3 million each year. I would not say that these activities are something new or completely unheard of, but such informed, planned and well-structured activities for the development of the Defence Union are a very high priority and will continue as such.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U50	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U51	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister! A while ago, there was such a black humor in the Defence Forces and the Defence League that after some piece of equipment broke or another South American blanks refused to work in the machine gun, they said, "Defence ally, consider that your equipment and weaponry has been delivered by a less bid winner. " What is your personal position, whether some important goods related to the need for protection, be it ammunition, could be acquired by changing the law externally, based on quality rather than, in particular, the price?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U52	Thank you. Whether it should be possible to approach procurement more flexibly and whether a lower price should be the only criterion is, for example, the years spoken in the context of the Public Procurement Act. At the same time, it is clear that the possibility of any other risk, including the risk of corruption, must be mitigated in the procurement process. In defence procurement, a number of unconventional procedures are often applied, inter alia, because the State often procures from the state in the case of larger purchases rather than from the so-called free market. But surely, if the poor quality of national defence personnel, whether for training or for military activities, is a threat to the health, life or ability of military personnel to perform military tasks, for example, these aspects should have already been reflected in the procurement terms. It is clear that defence equipment, armaments and ammunition are subject to certain minimum requirements, beyond which providers will be able to qualify at all. These minimum requirements should in any case be sufficient to prevent and rule out the cases you have described. If it has ever been different, then it certainly needs to be corrected. But I don't dare say right now that it's absolutely necessary to change the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U53	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister! I believe that there is no doubt in this Chamber that we are still on the same side in a conflict situation. But the important thing is that everyone on one side is there. Here's my question. When 7,000 men had to reschedule their plans and reschedule, you decided to take a vacation. Don't you think it was unfair and perhaps even offensive to these men and demonstrates your lack of responsibility for the area you are curing?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U55	Thank you for your question. I don't think so. I was very closely involved in the 'Silk' planning over the year and, of course, I am directly responsible for ensuring that all the conclusions made and the necessary changes were fully implemented after the successful conduct of the exercise. In fact, the training leaders, the Commander of the Defence Forces and his deputy, expressed their satisfaction rather that not too many politicians tended to exhibit themselves in front of the camera between the Defence Forces at the time when the Defence Forces were engaged in practical activities. I did not play an important role in the so-called hot phase of the exercise, according to my position. I visited the lesson together with other members of the government and Members of the parliament at the appointed time and place. But to think that my role as Minister of Defence in this exercise was limited to that would be inappropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U56	The Home and Rules of Procedure Act allows a question to be asked during the consultation. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The Defence League is a voluntary national defence organisation. It persists and works precisely on the initiative of volunteers, on the basis of their activity and with their participation. It is a pity that you are not a defence ally yourself, so you would know that the biggest suffocator of this activity and volunteering is bureaucracy. The next year, the more the Defence League and the Defence League are buried under red tape. It is quite clear that it inhibits the activity of the defence allies. Do you foresee measures to solve this problem and, if you see them, which ones?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U58	Thank you. Certainly, all national defence activities play an important role in so-called work with paperwork, be they cards or planning documents. If any important area of state life is suffocated, as you described, with some excessive bureaucracy, then it must certainly be combated. If the Defence League calls on the Ministry to review the reporting of the activities of the Defence Union or to simplify planning documents, we are certainly open to proposals of this kind. Your question was an exceptionally high degree of abstraction. If you referred to specific bureaucratic obstacles preventing the Defence League from carrying out its tasks, whether in promoting and developing a free will for defence, or in maintaining the military readiness of the Defence League or in organising training, I am certainly extremely grateful for such feedback and we will take it to work with all seriousness. If possible, we will reduce these bureaucratic barriers and obstacles. But it is natural that in defence, including the activities of the Defence League, everything depends not only on training on the terrain or, let's say, an exchange of readiness to fight on the battlefield. Planning, feedback, analysis, drawing conclusions, developing and improving procedures are important. There is certainly no way out of bureaucracy in any area of the country, even in national defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U59	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U60	Thank you, manager. Mr. Secretary of Defense! I'm gonna ask you a question like that. A year or two ago you stood on the same spot and told the Chamber of the Riigikogu how necessary it would be to reduce the cost of protection in order to increase child benefits. As Minister of Defence, have you changed your views substantially and think that this 2% of GDP is still necessary for the Estonian state? Have you changed in time?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U61	Thank you. I certainly didn't say that in front of this hall a year ago or two years ago. I'm sure you could use an exact reference. I have never talked about the need to reduce the cost of protection in order to increase child benefits. I have always supported the idea that child benefits should be raised and the legislative proposals in this regard But I certainly do not support or support a reduction in defence spending. You are probably referring to a debate on the budget that took place here four years ago when the 2012 state budget was being dealt with. Then my party really wanted to increase the cost of defence at a slightly more moderate rate than the government at the time. But the desire to increase defence spending and reduce defence spending is radically different.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U62	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It was a pleasure to hear that the budget of the Defence League has increased year after year because the Defence League is needed by our country, that we all need and that we need further life in Estonia. Have you thought and planned, through the budget of the Defence League, the rearing and maintenance of young eagles and domestic daughters? Secondly, is the knowledge gathered by the Defence League included in the planning of research and development work of the Ministry of Defence, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U64	Thank you. The Defence League, like all other public organisations, naturally plans its budget thoroughly for all activities. So the budget of the Defence League has been rewritten, discussed, coordinated and approved by those activities concerning military defence of the state, training of defence allies, land protection and the activities of women's home protection, the Youth Eagles and the Homedaughters of the Defence League organisations. As has been said when we are talking about prioritisation in budgetary terms, as in the case of the entire administration, so in the case of the Defence League, we will focus in the first stage on the creation and development of the defence capabilities of the state during the war. However, this does not mean that we are in any way underestimating the activities related to the preservation and cultivation of the will for defence, including the work of the youth organisations of the Defence League. They are certainly of exceptional significance and importance to the country as a whole. As regards whether the Defence Leagues are specifically involved in planning national defence research and development, I will be happy to obtain this information and deliver it to you. When we're talking about the National Defence League positions, they're manned by the Defence Forces. They are in no way separate from the Defence Forces as a whole. But I am sure that volunteers from the Defence League who are active in the defence industry, for example, will be involved in the planning of Defence Forces R &amp; D. With more specific information, I'll come back to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U65	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Knowing and knowing the buildings used by the Defence League in Jõgeva, I have doubts that the sums that went to build the new building of the Defence League would have been more useful to use to solve the other problems of the Defence League.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U67	Thank you. I understand that this is not so much a question as a question of doubt. We will certainly fix this problem, and if there are any problems in building this particular object, we will try to find out. Your question did not give rise to what other activities you would rather have used this money for. However, when it comes to irrational use of resources, it should certainly be made clear by the organisation's own internal control mechanisms and, if not, external audits can also be made and it is possible to clarify whether something has been misused. At the same time, all suspicions should certainly be justified and substantiated. If you have any additional material, data that could help me settle this suspicion that you have raised, I would be very grateful for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U68	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U69	Thank you, manager. Good minister! I have personally experienced that, for example, harnesses we find more or less, and the uniforms too, but the helmets are not on because they are either molded or completely incomplete. But the events in Ukraine and the story of the Suitcase have doubled the membership of the Defence League. But one big problem that is being blamed is that there are no instructors to train these people. It's not just the equipment. There's something to do with the equipment. How do you feel about the instructors' payroll?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U70	Thank you. As I have already said in answering the questions asked by the heirs, our aim is to focus on both competitive wages and other guarantees in the entire human resources policy of the Defence Forces, including the Defence League, and on measures of general appreciation of the position of the Defence Forces. In times when membership of an organization is growing at a faster pace than usual, both the provision of this growing structure and other activities may become more difficult. But I'm sure I can promise you that the Department of Defense will do whatever it takes. It is clear that when it comes to the positions of active troops in the Defence League, we operate again with limited and limited resources. One thing is how much we fall short of the goals of recruiting the Defence Forces as a whole and in which parts, whether it concerns the positions of active troops, as well as the positions of subordinate officers and officers. But in general, there's a rotation inside the Defence Forces. If, for example, people are sent to work at international headquarters or the Defence League, the Defence Forces have fewer human resources. Planning human resources is one whole. We will, of course, prioritise the needs of the Defence League, but there are certainly things that can be better done in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U71	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mentality and equipment are both very important in protecting Estonia. My question is more about spirituality. In Pärnumaa, Toris is a memorial church for Estonian soldiers. My question has always been whether the Estonian defence budget should be intended for a temple that commemorates our heroes, worthy of support, in order to maintain this place with dignity.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U73	Thank you. Having been a Member of the Parliament for quite a long time, I remember that it was precisely the Pärnumaa Association of Ambassadors that was at the time when Tori's memorial church of Estonian soldiers was just restored and rebuilt, a very strong pressure group in the Riigikogu, thanks to whom this topic was seriously taken into account in the processing of several state budgets. As far as defence budgets are concerned, the Ministry of Defence's budget includes a number of activities related to the knowledge of the history of the Estonian war and the recording and appreciation of the memory of those who fought for Estonia. I think it is quite reasonable the approach taken by the Ministry of Defence in recent years in a row that activities that are not directly linked to the development of military defence capabilities are given responsibility for other structures of the Ministry of Defence's administration, such as the War Museum or, on certain occasions, the Office of Defence Resources. Mostly curates and coordinates what concerns war history and the recording of the memory of those who fought for Estonia, as well as all that relates to monuments and museums, for example, the Museum of War. Are the resources available for this purpose sufficient? I'm sure it could be more like everything else. Despite the fact that the history of our statehood is not very long, our history, including the history of war, is quite long and passionate. Those who have fought for Estonia and lost their lives or have been injured have been many in the past. I'm sure the memory of all of them deserves to be recorded. When we talk about the defence budget, the military defence budget and 2% of GDP, these amounts will certainly never include everything that is indirectly linked to broad-based defence. National defence is a much broader concept than military defence. But if we are going to try to fit all this into this 2%, then it will undoubtedly suffer once again from the creation of military defence capabilities. I wholeheartedly and morally support the idea that the memorial church of Estonian soldiers in Toris is important to Estonia and definitely needs resources. It is not a priority whether these resources come mainly from the administration of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Culture or any other government institution. Certainly there is also a place of free will and non-profit activity. I'm sure it's important. But just because the Department of Defense has been too small here, I wouldn't be in a hurry to agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U74	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U75	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Defense! There was a story in this hall today that 7,000 people, the Defence League, took part in the exercise. These people went on to exercise at a time when work had to be done, especially in the countryside, in agriculture. But people need to be paid. That's my question. Can the Secretary of Defense say calmly today that all those people who went to the training have got their money and the state doesn't owe it to anyone?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U76	In Estonia, our defence forces are in the majority of the reserve forces. This reserve will not only be mobilised in the event of a crisis or war, but people will need to be invited to reserve training gatherings and exercises even during peacetimes. The peculiarity of the reserves is that during peacetime they have their own civil work to do. It's a job that they keep themselves and their families up for. For years, we have also had a system for the remuneration of reserve training gatherings. It cannot be said that this would be very generous, but in the case of quite a substantial part of the reservations, this compensation, the remuneration they receive for participating in the reserve training meeting, is actually higher than the remuneration they receive for their civil office. True, for many, this fee for participating in the gathering is less than that for civil work. Understandably, a person who has assumed obligations, who has a family, is reluctant to lose his or her income while serving as a reserve for the Estonian state. We concluded a tripartite agreement with two major employers' organisations some time ago, according to which employers are also trying to make their best contribution to Estonian national defence and, if possible, ensure that wages are maintained. For its part, the state is trying, by various means, to respond again to the concerns of employers, who have to send their employees as reserve workers to study gatherings. In its coalition agreement, the new government coalition has committed itself to reviewing the system of remuneration for participation in the assembly. We had a pretty serious dispute as to whether the new system should in some ways be analogous to parental benefits and take into account only the remuneration received by the reserveist in civil life. At the same time, we found that such differentiation would not be reasonable or fair, because it may happen that the person who is in charge of the civil office and receives a very high salary is in a much less responsible position in the military structure than the other person whose civil office and the remuneration for it may be modest. Therefore, the system that is being created takes into account both the normal income of a person and the post of wartime. It is still a little early to say exactly what this balance point will be in the future, but surely our goal is that as many reserveists as possible feel motivated to participate in the assembly rather than try to avoid the reserve gathering on the grounds that their economic performance might suffer in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U77	Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U78	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister! The Defence League and organisations like the Defence League are characteristic of small countries. If we were equipped with resources such as those of the great powers, we probably wouldn't need the Defence League. The governance of the Defence Union is perhaps an art aimed at directing and highlighting initiative and focusing on areas that need to be resolved. I have not so much a question as a proposal. Now, at a time when we are seeing events in Ukraine, it is very important to quickly obtain flak jackets, rubble vests and a number of other elements of equipment. Would it be possible to arrange for volunteers to buy them themselves and for the state to compensate for some appropriate percentage of this amount?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U79	Now the question has been asked, the time has long passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U80	When we talk about the purchase of wartime defence equipment, they cannot be made very dependent on the donations of private individuals or their willingness to put their money down there. At the same time, of course, I think that the defence of the Estonian people is very strong. They can realise this will by participating in voluntary national defence, whether by participating in the Defence League or otherwise, but mainly in the Defence League, of course. At the same time, we should certainly encourage people and businesses to express their willingness to defend and defend themselves by contributing real money to national defence. It should not be rejected, but rather encouraged. The proposals on this are worth working through in-depth.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U81	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U82	Mr President! Mr. Minister! Mr Karilaid asked before he asked about the training of sissy units in the Defence League. For years, this commitment has actually been on the Defence League, but I would say that maybe 80% of the chess is not working. There aren't just people who train others. This task was on the border guard before, and when the border guard was lost in its former form, it was simply assigned to the Defence League without resources being provided for it. Secondly, the Defence League isn't capable of dealing with such a thing. I have a recommendation for the Minister. First of all, you need to learn what a guerrilla unit is, what it is designed for, and what kind of company there must be. Then maybe you'll take your hand and lose this mission of the Defence League.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U83	Thank you. All good suggestions we will certainly enforce. But I can tell you that when we're talking about developing special op capabilities, including the Defence League, this is the one thing that works pretty well for us. We have quite a few things that need to be repaired and reviewed. Of course, all planning and underlying documents, including the political underlying documents, need to be reviewed periodically. But the development of special operational capabilities is one of the priorities of the Estonian Defence Forces, and in the Defence League it is also a job on quite strong legs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U84	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U85	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Mr. Minister! I understand from what you've said that maintaining and arming the Defence League is a tense enough task to involve non-profit activities, donations and whatever. It is also difficult for the state to support pensioners and health care, and even the Riigikogu. But in 2013, when the border guard's weapons were replaced, nearly a thousand Makarov pistols and I don't know what amount of Kalashnikov's machines allegedly went to the mill. I can't imagine what was done with ammo, it's not going to the mill, it's not going to throw it in the oven. But wasn't it a waste of resources, all the more so since the police had replaced Makarov's pistols in the past? These aren't bad guns. Why couldn't they be distributed to the Defence League? I understand that the Defence Forces' weapons must match NATO's. But why couldn't they be distributed to the Defence League?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U86	Thank you. If you put the same question more specifically in the next debate, I will certainly be able to answer you in more detail. But it is clear that weapons, including handguns, age both physically and morally. The replacement of military weapons and equipment is actually a routine periodic process. What is done with weapons items that are excluded from the equipment is different in each case. That metaphor for sending it to the mill, maybe I didn't quite get it. With the exception of equipment, it is possible to behave in different ways. On quite a number of occasions, we have indeed done that things that are excluded from military equipment have been handed over to the Defence League. At the same time, I am extremely pleased that we are increasingly obtaining new or second-hand weapons for the Defence League, together with the procurement of the Defence Forces, by obtaining similar and similar types of weaponry for the Defence League units. I think it's extremely positive. At the same time, it is clear that the Defence Forces have weapons that cannot be put at the disposal of the Defence League after they have been scrapped. In some cases, we have donated such armaments to our cooperation partners, for example, through the United States over the last year to Kurdish fighters fighting against ISIL in the Middle East. If the weaponry is basically usable, but it is not suitable for our Defence Forces or the Defence League, or it is not necessary or reasonable to use it there, then it is also an opportunity to apply it usefully. But if you have a specific question about why one or the other matter is excluded from the armaments, or why it has not been placed at the disposal of the Defence League, for example, or whether the Defence League would need it at all, it certainly needs to be dealt with separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U87	Thank you, Secretary of Defense. I'm opening negotiations. There are no requests, I will stop looking at this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U88	Members of the Riigikogu Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeit, Henn Põlluaas, Martin Helme, Arno Sild, Raivo Põldaru and Jaak Madison have submitted the next question. For the sake of the heirs, please, Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U89	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Anniversaries ago, through the Swiss-Baltic Chamber of Commerce, some officials of our Ministry of Defence were informed that the Swiss Confederation army could have up to a hundred tanks. We are waiting for our initiative to discuss whether we need them and whether they can be delivered to the Republic of Estonia. In the meantime, the situation has changed and, in particular, due to the drastic change in the security situation, Switzerland's position is now also different. I submitted an inquiry to the Swiss embassy in Riga, which I received during the weekend information that it has now been decided to return this armoured equipment to the producer company in Germany, which is expected to transfer these tanks to the Bundeswehr. So, since we didn't take the initiative to make it official, the train is gone. But the security situation has changed for us as well. Here are two questions from our group to the Minister. Due to the strained security situation, have you considered redesigning the Defence Forces development plan and creating armoured manoeuvring capacity already this year and next year, so as not to wait until 2022, as the current development plan envisages? Secondly, if the government does not obtain heavy armoured technology from Switzerland on preferential terms, what amounts and from whom is it planned to make the creation of the armoured manoeuvring capacity provided for in the Coalition Agreement a reality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U90	Defence Minister Sven Mikser will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U91	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I can assure you that the Swiss Confederation has not put forward any offer to transfer or sell battle tanks to the Republic of Estonia. Private companies are active in defence equipment and weapons on the international market, including individuals who mediate defence-related equipment that is obsolete, scrapped or decommissioned from other countries' armaments. I believe that you, as Vice-Chairman of the National Defence Committee, can also be approached by people who represent someone, claim to represent someone, or think to represent someone, and present various exciting offers. On the basis of experience to date, I can confirm with complete responsibility that such offers may not always be rational, comprehensive or transparent in terms of costs. The probability that such offers can fit into our capacity development plans without significant additional costs is, to put it mildly, very modest. These additional costs may vary greatly, they may relate to modification, upgrading, initial maintenance needs and more. The military capabilities of the Estonian state are developed from a long-term perspective, based on a threat assessment, and the resourceability of the development plans being carried out is also important. According to the priorities of the National Defence Development Plan, the aim of the efforts of the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces is to develop armoured manoeuvrability as a qualitatively new ability. The first stage in the development of this capability, the mechanization of the Scouts battalion in the first infantry team, is covered by resources and implementation activities. The main difficulty of investments in the coming years is the acquisition of infantry combat vehicles and support Finns, the development of the necessary infrastructure for proper storage and maintenance of equipment, as well as the improvement of the training areas of the Defence Forces. This is an exceptionally large process, with a number of aspects, such as procurement, infrastructure and training activities, which are logically and temporally linked. A comprehensive military capability is a set of components, such as properly trained and trained personnel, weapons systems that enable the task to be carried out, logistical support infrastructure, munitions and other necessary supplies. It must be very well synchronized. Only entities that have been fully developed have a real military capability to perform the tasks assigned to them. As a result, the preparation of the Estonian Defence Forces units takes place exclusively in complete packages, not by individual weapons systems or parts thereof. In view of all of this, even the individual weapons systems offered free of charge or seemingly free of charge, taken separately, do not add anything qualitative to the military capability package. In this example, these tanks would not form a tank battalion because, in addition to the possible costs of ordering tanks, all supporting components, such as communications, logistics, support machines, are missing. On the other hand, unscheduled support for the tank lifecycle would put great pressure on the defence budget. It can be said with absolute certainty that the creation of such an unplanned and apparently incomplete ability would result in the liquidation of another unit or military capability. Our more than 20 years of experience confirms that, in the end, it is these things, which seemingly free, that tend to become the most expensive. The actual design of the Armoured Maneuvering Capacity (Tank Battalion) can build on the renewed National Defence Development Plan for the years 2017 to 2026, provided that the capacity development is covered with the necessary resources. A new or renewed development plan will be available in 2016, i.e. next year. At the same time, I would like to confirm that Estonia has acquired many different techniques from the secondary market for defence equipment, and we will certainly continue to do so in the future. In most cases, the acquisition of techniques used in the secondary market takes place as "public procurement'. Such procurements have been subject to the precise compatibility of technology and equipment with the technical requirements underlined on the basis of the development plan, as well as a comprehensive overview of the condition of the equipment to be procured. The principle that the whole life cycle of the system must be obtained responsibly and taken into account, we will certainly continue to follow in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U92	Questions for the Minister. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I was looking at something on the Internet. I assume you were prepared to answer this question and some technical questions are much clearer to you than to me. Is it true that the construction of the Leopard 2A4 tank began in the second half of the 1960's and production almost ended during the Cold War? They are therefore models that are 35 to 40 years old. Their resources are at most 450 kilometres of mileage, which should mean that their maintenance will be much more expensive than the technical maintenance of some modern tanks. These tanks are third generation tanks, or absolutely not suitable for the present army.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U94	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U95	Am I right and how do you comment on all this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U96	Thank you. You have certainly done significant research on the basis of the Internet and other public sources. However, it may be possible to make such a statement in respect of a particular copy or batch, but in fact, also in the case of weapons systems produced years ago, much depends on how much they have actually been used, how they have been maintained and modernised. So the length of the future life cycle of the used weapons system can be very different and depends on much else, not just the year of manufacture.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U97	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U98	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. A few weeks ago, Prime Minister Rõivas mentioned here when we asked him about civil defence, that Estonia was not preparing for war. However, Poland, for example, is preparing, for example, to accelerate its arms procurement exceptionally and to increase its national defence budget. Finland sends emergency invitations to its reserveists, Sweden plans to strengthen national defence on Gotland Island, Lithuania is considering restoring military service, and Russia is already at war. I was given the impression from your reply to the previous question that you think it would be reasonable if we followed the development plan and bought weaker weapons more expensive than our neighbours, for example. You have just mentioned that the Ministry is acting on the basis of a threat assessment. We asked whether, within the framework of the existing risk assessment, it would not be reasonable to bring these procurements forward. You mentioned 2026. It seems very far away.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U99	Thank you. I said that protection planning always starts or should begin with a risk assessment, then we know what we really need to be prepared to face. The second parameter that sets out its frame is the available resources. As I said, it certainly makes sense to plan these abilities comprehensively. This means looking not only at the possible purchase price, but also at the resources available in this system, at how long it will last for us, at its maintenance, retrofitting and maintenance costs, and not only during one financial year, but actually throughout its life cycle, as well as at how it fits into the rest of our capacity package. Defensive planning is a complex and comprehensive thing. When I come to the beginning of the question, I am sure the principle that if you want peace, you must prepare for war. I am convinced that the readiness to defend ourselves, guaranteed by real military capabilities, to defend ourselves, is one of the best guarantees that we should never use this ability. Again, the size of Estonia imposes its limitations on us and it is therefore worth creating a strong deterrent with our allies. But our independent defenses are extremely important in all of this. As far as armoured manoeuvring is concerned, as I have already said, this is what we have created in stages, gradually starting with lighter and going the heavier way. This means that, in addition to the armored transporters that have been used so far, we are in the process of obtaining infantry combat vehicles. The procurement of infantry combat vehicles is underway. Then, on the assumption that if we compete with all other priority procurements, this "heavy scale" will prove to be the most important priority, we will be able to plan in there with the next long-term planning cycle, starting with the creation and storage of this capacity guaranteed by resources. That makes sense. Often it seems that everything could be done at once and all things could be done before all the other things. Emotionally, this is certainly understandable, especially in a tense international security situation, but practically impossible. But the difference between Estonia and some of our allies and partners is that we did not have the knowledge of who we have right behind the border overnight or as a shock during or after the aggression against Ukraine. We actually had this knowledge much earlier, and therefore our long-term development plans did not see any risks as a priority, other than the very same threat, which is still the most realistic and most serious. In this sense, during and after the crisis in Ukraine, we have certainly had to review our plans much less than many of our allies.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U100	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U101	Thank you. As a reserve officer, I have taken an oath to the Republic of Estonia. So the use of the Minister's word in answering my previous question was very inappropriate. You should be careful with something like that. The question is this: how much does heavy machinery cost, let's say, one working day for a 72-75-ton tank?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U102	Thank you. Again, it depends very much on how this tank is used and in what condition it is in. It certainly does not depend on tonnage alone. I'm sure there are people in this room with tanks far more intimate than I am. They, too, can assure you that it is not possible to say such a universal number, how much a single tank costs on a working day.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U103	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. As a historian, I would like to recall a passage from the chronicle of Henrik, Latvia, where he writes that knights killed Estonians like women, referring to nothing but that Estonians were light militias without armor. One thing that comes out very clearly from what you are saying right now is that Estonia is based on the tracks that are bureaucraticly set down in its threat assessments: if it is 2022, we will do so when it is 2026, then we will do so. It's like our potential opponent is waiting for us to get all these things done. He won't wait. I would point out that bureaucrats obviously do not understand that in a war situation, exactly what was written by Latvian Henrik happens: excessive blood is paid for the work done by bureaucrats. The question from this question: is it really impossible to redefine certain priorities in the development plan and speed up the development of certain capabilities?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U105	The answer to your question is no. It is certainly not impossible, but these redeployments must be done in a well-considered way. For example, when we are talking about ongoing procurement, the procurement of third generation anti-tank systems is one that we decided to bring forward in time based on objective needs. On the contrary, we do not rely on bureaucratic years, on Excel tables or on such, but on restrictions that actually exist in the real world, one of which is limited resources. We consider that, in order to protect Estonia militarily, we will use 2% of GDP now and in the near future, perhaps a little more. We have the best available expertise on economic forecasts, we can expect more or less what we will be talking about in the coming years by extrapolating trends and using the best analytical capabilities. If we look at national defence development plans, the ten-year planning cycle is quite long. It is quite difficult to predict adequately how much the economy could grow or decrease and how much 2% of GDP will be in ten years' time. When we draw up a country's budget strategy, we look only three years ahead, and we know that life will also make quite a lot of adjustments during this time. In ten years, this limp will certainly be even bigger. So we're planning real powers. We also have our allies' expertise on the total cost of life-cycles of one or the other ability. In 20 years, we've come pretty far from creating air castles that we're building a large army on paper and hope that somehow it fills up. On the contrary, we understand very realisticly that, although the will to protect and the person are most important, in a real war situation, on the battlefield, this person will benefit when he is trained, he has practiced working with others in the unit, and he has a weapon. However, weapons are only useful if there are also ammunition, and units can only operate if they are also secured by other supplies. This is a very complex process where, simply by bringing one thing or another forward, we can actually break the developed capabilities and put at risk other necessary plans. We know that Estonia is a small country and we do not have the full spectrum of all military capabilities. In addition to the heavy armoured capabilities, there has been a lot of talk over the last year, for example, about coastal defence and central air control. Without denying that these are all very necessary abilities, we are perfectly aware of the cost of creating and maintaining these abilities. Therefore, using the resources that we have in the real world, we cannot make emotional sudden decisions in the way you might like it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U106	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! In your previous reply to me, you gave a very nice promotional speech to infantry combat vehicles CV90. Indeed, these are excellent machines, this is a very good purchase. Of course, the price is a matter of course. At the same time, you emphasise the development of defence capabilities as a whole. If we're talking about armoured capabilities, whoever knows military tactics and strategies knows that infantry combat vehicles cannot be used in isolation. When we're talking about armoured capabilities, we have to bear in mind that these combat vehicles are used with tanks. In this sense, the current situation is far from complete. Speaking of resources...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U108	Please ask a question! The minute's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U109	If we have hundreds of millions of euros to share in the ESM, and the money for the tanks should not be paid today, but may be paid for decades, then why are we not doing so in the current situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U110	Thank you. You returned to these mythical Swiss tanks on your question. As I said at the beginning of my reply, no such offer has been submitted to the Republic of Estonia. As the questioner said, and as far as I know, according to the conditions under which Switzerland acquired these tanks in its own time, they were to be returned to the producer plant. There is little reason to talk about something that has not really been and has never been. On the other hand, even if it existed, seemingly free things are never really free, but mean very big, fundamental and fundamental changes in all other decisions concerning both procurement and certainly infrastructure. We know that arms procurement still makes sense when these weapons can train people. This, too, requires considerable investment, with investments that cannot be made overnight. Even the introduction of armoured manoeuvring in the form of infantry combat vehicles means, among other things, the relocation of units within Estonia. This also means the creation of short-range exercise areas, the expansion of training shooting areas and risk areas. This battle tank is a very powerful weapon system. There is a strong likelihood that, when analysing different competing procurement priorities, battle tanks could also reach the next planning cycle. In such a case, the creation of this ability must be viewed in a complex way and, in addition to the cost of maintaining the system itself, the training and exercise opportunities must be taken into account. So this is an exceptionally complex process.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U111	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U112	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! In reply to my previous question on border guards' pistols, you kindly authorised me to present it more specifically during the debate on the next subject. I am now asking a specific question. In 2013, there were 700 border guards, plus a certain number of staff, plus something definitely in stock. So nearly a thousand of those guns could have been, your employees know more. Please answer the question whether it was resource-efficient to crush them in the mill! Please don't tell me that Makarov's pistols and AK machine guns are morally outdated! The rest of the world doesn't think so, and no man in military service in his day would say that. They're no worse than Israel's, it's just a different standard. The fact that the Americans are using them against the Islamic state is probably a secret.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U113	You put together a lot of porridge and cabbages. I certainly have not said, with regard to specific pistols, that they are morally obsolete. I don't know, I can't tell. In 2013, the border guard (the current PBGB, then the Border Guard Board) was, as it is today, under the administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. But to this particular question, which at the time led to the destruction of the guns belonging to the border guard, if they were still destroyed in the manner you described, I will obtain an answer and forward it to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U114	Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister! In order to succeed, it is mostly necessary to be in the right place at the right time. You have to be in the right place at the right time with tanks, infantry combat vehicles, armored vehicles, if you like, Makarov pistols or something else. How would you describe the current status of the Defence Forces and the Defence League in obtaining communication systems and management systems and the priority of their procurement?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U116	We certainly have a long development process ahead of us in terms of obtaining communication systems. In planning defence procurement, it is important to set priorities on the basis of both the supply elements to be procured and, in our case, the readiness of the units or the rapid response capability. It should not be the case that some of the least important items of equipment are equipped with even the least-ready units, while the fastest-ready unit, such as the Scouts Battalion, does not have any vital system. We've been coming all this way in more than twenty years. We're not there yet, but I think we've been heading in the right direction over the years. So it's true there's somewhere else to go.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U117	Thank you. That was a pretty wide question. When we talk about defence-based preparedness, we have professional defence forces, we have reserveists who are equipped with military service. In order for them to be at a level of readiness, the unit will be used together at the end of military service. This level shall be maintained by means of reserve training gatherings. We also have the Defence League, a voluntary association, which, in addition to preparing the military structural units, gives reserves the opportunity to maintain their training and preparation levels. But there are, of course, a number of other public authorities, as well as private structures, within the framework of broad-based national defence, which have a role to play in ensuring and protecting national security. The previous Parliament passed a national defence law that creates a certain degree of legal clarity, but it certainly also has a large field of work ahead of it, implementing legislation must be adopted. So people are being prepared in many ways to protect the state: through training and training of professional defence forces, in the same way as for reserveists and defence allies, but it is also important to establish and maintain the readiness of civil structures to participate in and prepare for national defence. I'm not sure I got the point of your question exactly, but I tried to give as good an answer as I could.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U118	Thank you, Minister. I'm opening negotiations. For the sake of the heirs, Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U119	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to speak. Would the Minister like to perform again? No, I don't. I will close this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U120	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister. Once again, I want to stop at this so-called mythical offer of tanks. Actually, there's nothing mythical about this. The subject is delicate because Switzerland is a neutral country. That is why this offer was made to the people of our Ministry of Defence, including Vice Chancellor Jonathan Vseviov, in a delicate form. The proposal was that Estonia should take the initiative and be interested. If Estonia had taken the initiative, a formal offer would have come from Switzerland. As Estonia did not take the initiative, there was no official offer. Now we are in a situation where we really have no reason to talk about this at all because this train is gone. On one subject, however, we have reason to talk. I am amazed by this bureaucratic inflexibility. I'm amazed we've got our tracks in place, but there are no turns. You have to go to the terminal, but this station ends with a stone wall. This is quite incomprehensible to me when we talk with burning eyes about accepting one thing or another anyway. Now, that's one of the things that really amazes me in Estonia, both disturbs and irritates me, the attitude that anyway we have to do this thing, anyway, we have to do another thing. It is as if we are not sovereign decision-makers who can say that we are not doing it or that we are doing it as we please. No, you gotta do it anyway! We're going to have to accept immigrants anyway! We'll find money to accept immigrants. Henn Põlluaas, a good colleague, published an article in the Evening Paper today in which he had calculated that this money was in the order of EUR 100 million. 100 million euros of zaprosto, as they say in Russian, simply, with a left hand. ESM participation, solidarity, Europe! We are in Europe and we must act like Europe! Hundreds of millions went like nothing. And then we complain that we have too little resources to get armor for our soldiers who will die without their vests. It's blood. Money is just money, and a person's life is a person's life. But we're counting on the money more than the one who's up against us, which is exactly what we know. We know exactly how many tanks come from there. There will be hundreds of them. We know exactly how many planes there will be that we have nothing to resist. There will be hundreds of them. We know exactly how many soldiers there will be. There will be tens and tens of thousands of them, which we have about half as much as we can resist. But we prefer money. This is the wrong approach to the crisis that we are in at the moment. A number of countries in our neighbourhood, mentioned today, have also taken a very clear course towards sacrificing money to save their people, their people. The Prime Minister informed us weeks ago that Estonia was not preparing for war. But there's no need to prepare for war, so we can gather supplies. You could collect medical supplies, food supplies, clean drinking water, think about how to protect your people even in civil disasters, even if there is no war. We do not pay attention to this because we do not take our people into consideration. We will, however, take into account what Europe thinks of us. You know, I'm gonna tell you this old-fashioned story about what people think about watching an elephant in a zoo. The American thinks that an elephant can make a circus attraction and make a lot of money. The German thinks the elephant would make a terrible lot of sausage. But the Estonian thinks, "I don't know what he thinks of me. " We'd rather have our own people. We don't need to think about what an elephant thinks of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U121	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U122	There has been a great deal of talk today about military preparedness, but there has not yet been a question to the Minister about what are the plans for the protection of our people, our people in Estonia. How are the preparations made in Europe because of the alarming situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U123	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, One and a half years ago, I decided that I wouldn't appear on the subject of defence, but I just can't take the floor today. There are two reasons for this. First of all, I myself have been crowned: from 11 May 1982 to 11 May 1984, anti-aircraft, unit 56178. We were equipped with missile complexes S-75, S-125 and S-200, which is exactly the ones that fire the planes. Mr. Minister! For example, S-75 can be nicely stored in oil somewhere, it may have been lying around for half a century, but if you buy it now and arm it, then the benefits are absolutely nothing. Even then, 1982. In 2001, only an S-200 missile received an aircraft like SR-71 with a runway of 22000 metres and a speed of 3300 kilometres per hour. This old gun is no use at all. Twenty-four years ago, during the Gulf War, you could see Saddam's tanks burning. I'm sure they were in very good technical condition, but they were old, they didn't pay anything at all when they were confronted with some newer, more modern weapon. Point 2. Listening to this questioning debate today, I remembered a family name such as Apanski and an Israeli-Estonian arms deal when a lot of rust was brought to Estonia, iron was also a little bit, but basically rust. Nobody knew what to do with it. This is not even a matter of defence; I am speaking now as a member of the Special Committee on State Budget Control. Our aim is to avoid state budget spending, which is actually just spreading money. If you are Estonian patriots, you must tell the Minister about the new South Korean tank, perhaps called Black Leopard or Black Panther. It's being praised by the whole world, and all the countries in the world are in line to buy this tank. He has fantastic qualities. What he's doing, you don't even see in the movies! If you're patriots, tell me it's better to buy five tanks like this than a hundred rusted machines. When I looked at this Leopard 2A4 story on the Internet, I entered Google's search system in Russian, but I am not going to break the law, as the previous speaker did here, and I am not using Russian words just in case, about the words that the Swedish Defence Forces are humanitarianly helping anyone. I got the answer, it's gonna happen. Sometimes old bicycles are given, they can no longer be used to drive, sometimes pocket knives or something from a pharmacy that can run out of time at any time, etc. Free cheese is just a mouse trap. So I suggest you, however, consider whether all of this gives a measure of patriotism. It would be the same if you were to suggest that we take and buy some of the treats that were produced in the 1970s and lying around in a warehouse for some 5% of the real price. It's cheap! It's like a Tiger Jump, so let's give these treats to teachers or students. I don't think you'd even think of that. So, strangely enough, these completely different issues came together. But I want to tell you that if I don't usually speak on defence, we're going to defend the state budget. If you want to buy weapons, do it properly. Buy the ones you can fight with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U124	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U125	Now, after the hammer hit, the free microphone begins. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U126	Mr President! Because of these few sentences that I want to say, I've been sitting here for two hours. You see, it's happened that I have very good, great friends in national broadcasting. If political debates begin before the elections, they will do everything they can to save my nervous system. They just put the guard at the door and don't let me in, when the party sends me to the debate, sends me once, sends me another time. That is why I value these people very highly and want to help with good advice. When the rumor began that there were some strange Russians in our country, just as Pooh the Bear's son once said that they were not the right bees, something was wrong with them, instead of improving the lives of these people and talking like a human being, there was, of course, another way. They started working on it and gave state money to make a separate TV channel for the Russians. There was a competition, and this channel was beautifully named ETV+. I want to remind the ERR that in a few years, we will have a larger portion of Swahili-speaking people. If it went so wrong with the Russians, it wasn't until 25 years later that they started dealing with this thing, then these people should be dealt with right from the start. I think that the Council of the ERR, the Board of Directors, all the wise people who are there, should be discussing this issue now and asking for funding. I also have a good name for this channel: ETV. Another channel, Swahili or Arabic, and it starts next year! Then we'll be ready for it, and we won't be the right bees, but we'll be all right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U127	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U128	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the free microphone last week, I started a series of speeches aimed at identifying and describing the phenomena and circumstances that have led the Riigikogu to receive the name of the rubber stamp in the public and in the press, and I think it is quite right. I started with what I called football syndrome. On the one hand, all the proposals that have come from the opposition of the Riigikogu must be voted down both in the committee and in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, not just to vote down, but to vote down quickly, doing so essentially without delving into these proposals. The other part of this phenomenon is that all those in the government's draft must also be made a law without further consideration of any proposal or principle or any particular detail. There are two evil aspects. One is that the members of the committee, who are also members of the Riigikogu, do not learn, develop or become an expert in the field of their committee. The fact that it is possible to sit in the Riigikogu for four years in opposition without going into any subject is quite possible. We have such examples. If the government coalition's gonna do the same thing, it's gonna be a bad pack. On the other hand, the practice of ministers and committee leaders becoming the promoters of the will of ministerial officials, just as their agents in the Riigikogu. How does this process begin? The point is that, unless it is an urgent draft, we can assume that the draft has been initiated during the previous or even the previous minister, it has been on the government's or ministry's work plan, has gone through a long and thorough round of coordination, has been polished, and no one feels morally entitled to say that the draft is bad or unnecessary. It is very difficult for the Minister to do so. Such a thing could be said in the Riigikogu, but also in the Riigikogu, rejection of unnecessary or bad things does not fall out. In the case of a draft of this kind, the Minister or the official accompanying him usually does not have a personal relationship with the text represented or introduced. So it is as if there is an automatic obligation simply to pass the text that has come to pass in the Riigikogu. This task is essentially also assigned to members of the government coalition in the Riigikogu. You gotta put your thing through this football match. And the result is again that there is an example of a rubber stamp in the Estonian country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-01_U129	The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 5.17 p.m.
