ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-06_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the second working week of the first plenary session. First, I'm gonna ask if anyone wants to hand over the bill. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-06_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Happy Easter another holiday to all of you! If today is a normal working day for Estonian workers, today is a public holiday and a holiday in 25 European Union countries. The faction of the Centre Party initiates the amendment of § 2 of the Holidays and Holidays Act, which provides that the second holiday of Easter will become a public holiday and a holiday in Estonia as well. If the draft is implemented as a law, the average working week will be reduced in Estonia. While Estonia currently averages 1868 hours per employee per year and the OECD average is 1770 hours, an additional holiday day does not make this time shorter than the OECD average. So on this issue, too, we do not think that there will be any particular problem with other countries. We find that the people of Estonia deserve an extra holiday day. Moreover, it is of little importance for the rest of the European Union, i.e. 25 countries, as I mentioned above, to have a day of rest, no interbank transactions, and that communication between countries is disrupted on that day. So we believe that this bill should become a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-06_U3	No more wishes. I have adopted a bill that the Bureau is acting on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. I have the following messages for you. As soon as the sitting is closed, five parliamentary groups and three support groups shall be set up in this Chamber. I'm gonna read them out and name the caller. Parliamentary groups include: Estonia-Turkey, convener Kadri Simson; Estonia-Holland, convener Martin Repinski; Estonia-Poland, convener Aadu Must; Estonia-New Zealand, convener Kalle Laanet; Estonia-Iceland, convener Artur Talvik. Three support groups are: Ida-Virumaa Support Group, convener Valeri Korb; Internal Security Volunteer Support Group, convener Artur Talvik; Civil Society Support Group, convener Yoko Alender. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 98 members of the Riigikogu are present, 3 is missing. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! In preparing the agenda, the Management Board is obliged to follow the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. And on the basis of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, we also have to vote on the adoption of the agenda. In today's situation, we are in a situation where we can present you with just the agenda that you have before you. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the approval of this week's agenda. Please take a stand and vote. 79 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, 2 against, 9 abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-04-06_U4	According to the approved agenda, there is now a free microphone to register after the hammer hit! There is no wish to speak in a free microphone. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 3.05 p.m.
