ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the fourth working week of the IX plenary session. Although we have only two working weeks left in this House, there is nevertheless an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. The Government of the Republic will not hand over any drafts today. There's no call either. Please, let's do the presence check! 75 members of the Riigikogu are present, 26. The week's agenda needs to be confirmed. The Committee on Economic Affairs has proposed to remove from the agenda of this working week the 22nd item on the agenda of the meeting of Wednesday 11 February, which is draft law 318 on the amendment of the Electricity Market Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U2	Thank you. The IRL Group cannot support the proposal to exclude this draft from the weekly rules of procedure. This is a draft law on the reduction of renewable energy charges, which has been tried to be passed here for several years as a law, which would mean winning millions of euros for consumers. However, there is nothing to justify such an urgent removal at the last minute. My question to the President of the sitting is as follows: did the Committee on Economic Affairs give any incentive to this request?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U3	This is not motivated in the documents I have been given. Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U4	Nor do I see any substantive reason why it was withdrawn as the committee's handling of this draft. The proposal is still to keep it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U5	If anyone protests against the agenda that has been tabled, the item will remain on the agenda. Any more protests? No, it's not. Honourable Riigikogu, I shall vote on the approval of the weekly agenda as it has been tabled. Please take a stand and vote. 70 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, against 2. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U6	The first item on our agenda today is the question of the question of respectable colleagues, please let us take it easy. just by Urmas Reinsalu, Peeter Laurson, Aivar Riisalu, Siim Kiisler, Kaia Iva, Erki Arrow, Toomas Tõniste and Juhan Parts. Urmas Reinsalu will speak on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U7	Mr Prime Minister! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! A few weeks ago, the Minister of Education and Research, Jevgeni Ossinovski, presented to the Estonian public the view that, as defined in the law, the plan for the transition to partial Estonian-language education in Russian-language upper secondary schools had been poorly implemented. In this context, it provides that this law should be amended and that the so-called 60% in upper secondary schools: 40% requirement should be abolished. This point was repeated very clearly by the Minister of Education and Science Ossinovski in this Chamber, too, when he answered the questions of the interviewers a few weeks ago. It is a political position which is not represented by any politician, nor is it represented by a member of the Cabinet, who is not the Minister for Education and Science, but is clearly expressed by the Minister responsible for this area. This signal has reached a great deal of controversy in Estonian society. It is extremely bad that this issue has been included in the election campaign. And it has been torn in such a way that political statements have given rise to a serious setback to the transition. We cannot in any way support such a member of the government's political position. We consider it necessary to give the Prime Minister an opportunity to explain the political line of the Government of the Republic in response to the inquiry. It is surprising that the Government of the Republic has not taken a clear position on these statements. The only political positions have come from the political ranks of the Reform Party that is running for the Riigikogu, led by Mr Sutrop, who has called the statements of a member of the government as attempts at Russification. When answering written questions, the Prime Minister has said that the Minister of Education and Science himself should comment on this. He has stressed that if a member of the government ignores the government's agreement to continue the transition of Russian-language upper secondary schools in part to Estonian-language learning, this does not mean that I am quoting the position of the Prime Minister, which he has sent on 3 February, 'change in government policy'. My view is that if the minister curating the field expresses very clearly a different political line from that of the government, it is comparable to government policy. If the government does not unequivocally disprove this position, then the signal remains for the public that the minister responsible for this area of the Government of the Republic is seeking to partially amend and repeal the regulation on the transition to Estonian-language education in upper secondary schools. In the current tense security situation, there is no point in raising certain questions in the context of inter-ethnic confrontation. Nor should this be done by succumbing to the temptation to win day - to - day political points. Our call is for the Prime Minister to state clearly the government's position and explain why the Minister of Education and Science will make such statements as a member of this office, which Mr Clothes is leading.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U8	The inquiry must be answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will respond to the question made by the heirs on 20 January, which is the policy of the government. The first question: 'Why do the members of the Government of the Republic organize such information operations before the elections? ' Minister of Education and Science Jevgeni Ossinovski should comment on your claim himself. The government has agreed in the coalition agreement that we will continue the transition of Russian-language upper secondary schools to partial Estonian-language education according to the law in force. The aim of the government is to ensure high-quality upper secondary school education in Russian schools, in accordance with the national curriculum, that young people who speak Russian as their native language are in the same position as young people who speak Estonian both when entering universities and on the labour market. If studies show that the language level of graduates is not sufficient, then they need to be taught more Estonian, not less. The second question: 'Is it a comprehensive policy of the government that the transition to education in Estonian in upper secondary schools must be abolished in today's form? ' I repeat what has already been said: the government has agreed in the coalition agreement that we will continue the transition of Russian-language upper secondary schools to partial Estonian-language education according to the law in force. If a member of the government denies this agreement in words, it does not mean a change in government policy. The language policy of the government is based on the Constitution and the cross-party development plan of the Estonian language, because without the Estonian language, culture and nationality there would be no Estonian state either. The state should offer more than less education in the Estonian language to the people of the other language here. Proficiency in the Estonian language is needed to ensure that all Estonian residents have equal opportunities to operate on the labour market and in society at all. The prerequisite for this is the knowledge of the national language. When it is said that Russians, Ukrainians or Belarusians have a glass wall in front of the labour market when they apply, it is not because of their nationality, but because they have not properly acquired Estonian. That's why the government considers language learning important. Reducing the learning of Estonian would be a disservice to Estonian young people with Russian native language. Question 3: 'If this is not the case, why is the Prime Minister silent? ' I have expressed these views several times in the past, both at a government press conference and here in the Riigikogu. I strongly support the continuation of the current language policy, which is based on the constitutional value of the preservation and development of the Estonian language. Estonian is our official language. Instead of hosting, I call on the various parties to find a common role in maintaining our language, valuing it and offering equal opportunities to all Estonian residents. I also call for a dignified presentation of my views and for the values recorded in the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia to be kept in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U10	Questions for the Prime Minister. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister! I quote the words of Minister Ossinovski in this very hall. He said exactly this: 'Of course, in the Republic of Estonia, Estonian will generally remain the language of instruction in both primary school and upper secondary school, and no one will change it. ' And for that 60%, he also said it would stay. So you're obviously being harmed. I'm more interested in your comment on one of the other things the Minister spoke about in this Chamber. In particular, he said that the model for assessing school leaders was essentially developed, the draft was prepared by the Ministry. Its main content is that a committee consisting of the Ministry of Education and other specialists would provide all school leaders with periodic feedback on their work. If the results are poor, the committee proposes that the head of school be removed from office. However, if this driver continues, the withdrawal of the training permit may be initiated. How do you assess the idea of creating such a committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U12	First of all, there are two sides to the government union. These are different political parties with different world-view views on some issues. There is nothing deplorable about this in itself. We have agreed on a joint part of the programme of the two parties different from the worldview, which is not so small. The number of things we have been able to accomplish in the last ten and a half months is certainly far more than the opposition expected in making its initial criticism. I am pleased about that, and for that I am sure to thank our coalition partner. As far as the specific field is concerned, the Minister of Education and Research has said that the quality of teaching the Estonian language should be improved, and he has, for example, brought about a wide range of steps in both upper secondary and primary schools. I would say that discussing these steps and striving for them is in any case the right way to look for ways to better teach the Estonian language. What I and I believe many others cannot agree with in this Chamber is that the other part of this idea is that we will reduce the teaching of the Estonian language in primary school and abolish the current threshold. That, in my opinion, gives the opposite signal. It gives a signal that teaching Estonian at upper secondary school is no longer as important as before. Such a signal can be demotivating for young Russian-speaking people and give the opposite effect to what they want. On this particular issue, yes, we disagree. We've never denied it. But I do not think that such differences, including in the run-up to the elections, when political parties present their programme views, need to be automatically condemned. Government policy certainly hasn't changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U13	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U14	Thank you. Prime Minister! The words of each member of the government have a great deal of weight, and if the Socialist Minister of Education has clearly stated that he wishes to cancel the requirement that at least 60% of the classes should be in Estonian in upper secondary school, you feel that this will also affect students studying in Russian in the middle school, who will learn Estonian in addition. They can see that the classes in Estonian can sometimes be reduced in upper secondary schools. How much do you think Evgeny Ossinovski's statements have damaged the partial transition to Estonian-language education and the acquisition of Estonian in Russian schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U15	To put it this way, during the pre-election period, there have been very many statements that scare people or give them the idea that Estonia can diametrically turn away from some of the policies that have led to success. At the same time, however, I call on everyone to realise that, before the elections, political parties are bringing their political differences and programmed positions to the public. Then it will be possible for everyone to choose which position he supports. I agree that, on the one hand, when it comes to improving the quality of language learning, and I believe that the questioner also does not mind if the teaching of Estonian to young people with Russian native language is improved, but if it is followed by a proposal to teach the language less in upper secondary school, it can give different signals to different audiences and this may not ultimately be a good idea. The signals that the state gives will be noted, as you rightly pointed out. I unequivocally say that I do not support the proposal to reduce the teaching of Estonian to young people with Russian language. On the contrary, when we see the need to improve the level of language learning, we will rather deal with how to raise it, looking for ways to start teaching Estonian even earlier and even better. Under no circumstances should it be taken in such a way that we hurt someone by teaching the Estonian language or that we should feel guilty in any way if we give someone the opportunity to learn the Estonian language. Any person who lives in Estonia who wishes to succeed in this society wants to work here and get a paid job knows that the ability to speak the Estonian language only contributes to this. Above all, it is in the interests of young people to have a good knowledge of the Estonian language and then in the interests of society as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U16	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U17	Mr Prime Minister! Paragraph 21 (1) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act states that the language of instruction of the school is a language which teaches 60% of the volume of the subject. Nowhere else is the law talking about 60% or any other percentage. Can you imagine how this point of law could be changed in the first place without being absurd and what point of law and how colleagues are worried about the IRL? As far as I am concerned, the Minister for Education and Science has never talked about the need or the desire to change this point of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U18	What the IRL members are worried about, you'll be able to ask them directly soon, I don't have to be the middleman on the remote. But I have understood it that way, and it is, I must admit, I also have been concerned that there has been a clear public signal that the teaching of Estonian at upper secondary school could be reduced. At the same time, efforts have been made to explain that this less teaching of Estonian somehow contributes positively to language skills. In my opinion, at least this is partly conflicting information, from which young people may be confused and which may create a deceptive feeling in them that knowledge of the Estonian language is not necessary in Estonia. Of course it's necessary, we all know that. We have very many positive examples of how, thanks to good or very good Estonian language, a child born into the family of Russian parents has become very successful, has become a very rewarding job. There are examples, and there are others. I do not think that anyone should take the teaching of Estonian as a punishment in any way. Once again, this is primarily in the interests of young people themselves, and I do not believe that we are hurting them. But as for the proposal to start teaching Estonian at a good level earlier, which Mr Ossinovski has also spoken about, I am open for discussion on this subject. I think there may be a real point here, and we could look together for ways to improve the system. There is certainly a basis for these discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U19	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U20	Thank you. Prime Minister! Looking at your election campaign, it has been seen that you are quite active in schools as well. How many Russian schools have you attended in your constituency, and how much have you talked to these students about this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U21	I have to admit that compared to everyone in this Chamber, I may have been at least attending schools in my constituency. The Prime Minister has the privilege of being invited everywhere in Estonia and I have also tried to respond positively to these invitations. In the past, I have given lessons in schools with Russian language, depending on the school in both Estonian and Russian. It was at a time when it was too early to assess whether or not the current language learning system had borne fruit. And in different schools, the results are very different. As a member of the Riigikogu, however, I went to schools to teach significantly more lessons and maybe the connection was better. At least then there were schools that could teach lessons in Estonian, all questions were asked in Estonian and all communication was very good in Estonian. But there were also schools where questions were asked in Russian and asked that I, too, give my presentation on, for example, how the state budget was put together when I was a member of the Finance Committee, then I gave civic education classes on such subjects, as well as in Russian. So the level has undoubtedly been very different.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U22	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! A number of school directors who are your party associates, as well as the head of the Institute of the Estonian Language Urmas Sutrop, have made public some time ago the idea that your coalition partner, the Social Democratic Party, but mainly the Minister of Education and Research, in its ranks, is involved in Rusification. I ask if you agree with these headmasters and Mr. Sutrop that the Social Democratic Party is engaged in Russification. And if so, why are you in a coalition with such a party?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U24	While understanding the concern of the head of the Estonian Language Institute for the future of the Estonian language, I do not wish to go along with any signs. Similarly, I do not want to go along with this somewhat bizarre and personalized argument that our respected coalition partner unleashed in response to this. In any situation, you might still try to remain dignified and talk about the subject of yourself. The safest way to kill a debate is to go into a personal attack on one issue or another. In my opinion, the topic we could seriously discuss in the Riigikogu before and after the elections is how to ensure that all the young people who are born in Estonia get a decent job, and none of them would be hindered by the lack of Estonian language skills. That is, in fact, a concern that I believe is shared by everyone in this Chamber. The methods offered, it looks, are a little different. Some say that upper secondary school should certainly be an opportunity to learn Estonian, that it guarantees the ability to speak Estonian, while others suggest that we teach less Estonian in high school than can be expressed in such a simplified way. Here, in my opinion, there is a fundamental difference between assessments of how to achieve the objective. We should talk about it, not whether one step or the other is Russification or not. I don't want to go along with these taggings.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U25	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Your position is understandable, but there is no way to agree that it is another party's electoral programme or world view. However, the Commission, which had been put together, was a committee set up by the Ministry and, as a result of its work, such proposals have been made. This committee highlighted a number of shortcomings, which say that the results have not been achieved because of the lack of a proper system, the lack of teaching materials, the lack of sufficient teachers, plus different factors, for example, the failure to motivate students to study subjects in Estonian, etc. I'm asking for your assessment. Doesn't it seem to you that it's someone's job to do, that this transition hasn't worked out well?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U27	If I am not mistaken now, this commission was put together to satisfy the request of the City Council of Tallinn. I'm sure you know exactly what was back there. I cannot rule out that the Commission's proposals include completely sensible proposals, whether on teaching materials or on teachers' language skills or something else. However, the fact that such a Commission has been working under the direction of the Minister for Education and Research does not automatically mean that everything this Commission has proposed has become government policy. At the level of the Government of the Republic, the Minister of Education and Research has not submitted any drafts or plans to change the current regime. I therefore think that there is still reason to speak of this particular initiative as his platform for elections and the post-election period. This could be seen as the case. In the negotiations on the Government Union, these issues were discussed for a very long time and in depth. We have written down the joint section and we have carried out this joint section very successfully, in my opinion. All ideas, which are very much in conflict with this common part, must be seen as proposals for the future. Some parties may agree with them, others may not. Much depends on whether the next government is formed, for example, with the participation of your party or with the participation of the IRL or with the participation of the Reform Party. For all these combinations, the end result is likely to be somewhat different. That's what we all understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U28	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U29	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! When you answered the previous questions, you said that it would be very nice to have a debate on this subject. But at the same time, you're worried. You are following with concern the political statements of the Minister of Education and Science. To clarify, I ask what is the policy of the Minister of Education and Research regarding the partial transfer of Russian upper secondary schools to the Estonian language of study. Does the Minister of Education consider that this law should be amended and relaxed or not? What is the political line of the Minister of Education?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U30	All the current ministers implement a government union agreement, where it is unambiguously agreed that we will continue, according to the current law, the transition of Russian gymnasiums to part of Estonian-language learning. If the members of the government have their own personal views, which do not coincide with the one hundred percent government union agreement, this does not automatically mean that it becomes a government union policy. For example, we have ministers who believe that the Estonian tax system could be graduated. This is a reality, and we all know that this is the case, and they have also said so before the elections in order to get electoral support for the idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U31	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! First of all, let me help you out a little bit. I'm sure you still have a little bit of a stranger in the field of education. You pointed out that the whole debate about 60: 40 is about whether more or less Estonian is taught in upper secondary school. Unfortunately, that is not the case. The ratio 60: 40 debates revolve around whether, in addition to compulsory education in Estonian language and literature, some subjects would be given both elective subjects and basic subjects in Estonian. The dispute is actually about the extent to which and which subjects should be taught in Estonian at upper secondary school, whether such subjects are also suitable for physics and chemistry, for example, or whether they should be electives, optionals. Here's my question. What steps have already been taken by your government, and what steps would you take if you were to continue as Prime Minister and wish that there would also be a good level of Estonian teachers in Ida-Viru County?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U33	I don't think you have to help me with this. The subject of education is no stranger to me. However, I think that the basic message for the public has been demotivating. The message has still been that the aim is to reduce the teaching of the Estonian language. Of course, we are not talking here about lessons in Estonian. Different subjects are also taught in Estonian and, if their volume is reduced, it reduces the proportion of communication and teaching in Estonian in upper secondary schools. That is why I really see a problem in this. It's like it's a government plan. I assure you, this is not the plan of a government currently in office. We also want young people with Russian native language to have a proper knowledge of Estonian, and we will help them in every way possible. As regards the concrete steps to be taken to improve the ability of the Estonian language, we have also published this in more detail in the coalition agreement. As you rightly said, everything starts with the teacher. If the skills of the Estonian language of teachers could be improved, a very large part of this problem would certainly have been solved. The teaching materials, which one of the pre-questioners pointed out, can always be improved. Just because we are doing everything we can to help young people with Russian native language learn Estonian does not mean that everything that is being done now is absolutely ideal and nothing can be done for the better. We certainly can, but in trying to make it better, we should not give the signal that in the future we need to learn less Estonian. That's the whole point, that's the message where there are contradictions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U34	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U35	Thank you, Prime Minister. The re-independant Estonian country has been in existence for more than 20 years and throughout this period it has been worried that Russian-speaking children could learn Estonian. So that the Estonian language can be taught at school and that they can acquire this language so that they can get along with the Estonians in the labour market. However, it is also recognised in this Chamber that the whole system has been very deficient. I have spoken to many teachers who complain that there have been no textbooks, that there has not been a systematic teaching of Estonian-speaking teachers, that there has not been a methodology for the whole system. Do you acknowledge that Mr Ossinovski, as Minister of Education, has been right when he has reopened this issue and expressed the opinion that the system must be changed in depth and that the work of the previous coalition has unfortunately not produced high-quality fruitage?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U36	Estonia has been an independent state since the occupation and has been able to shape its own education policy for over 23 and a half years. However, the fact that in Russian upper secondary schools different subjects will be taught in Estonian according to the law currently in force is still quite new. It is therefore premature to draw definitive conclusions and to assess whether or not this system is working. You asked whether this topic should be discussed in the context of how to teach Estonian better. Yes, of course. I have no objection to improving teaching material, and this is also a goal that we have in the coalition agreement. I improve the skills of the Estonian language of Russian school teachers, organise courses for them, raise their motivations, and I have no objection whatsoever. On the contrary, I think that these steps are justified and, if the Minister for Education and Science has taken them, he has done very rightly. These are the things that need to be dealt with. The simple question is that about a month ago, political rhetoric was added to dealing with these topics, in order to reduce the teaching of Estonian at upper secondary school. It is very difficult for me to accept this part of the plan, because it gives the opposite signal to what I want. It signals that teaching and learning Estonian is no longer as necessary as before and does not really need to speak Estonian. This signal, I believe, we don't really want to give. Therefore, we should focus on the topic of how to better learn Estonian, why not, how to start teaching Estonian earlier. There is no need to give the impression that in upper secondary school there will be considerably less study of Estonian in the future. It just gives a different signal and we don't need it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U37	Thanks to the Prime Minister! I'm opening negotiations. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U38	Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to tell you about how I've changed my mind. No natural human error, anyone can happen. There are still very many wrongs in this hall, whether intentionally or not. At the moment, Mr Prime Minister's reply to the statement that there is a desire to learn less Estonian in upper secondary school. No one's gonna say that. We are talking about less learning in Estonian. The point is, the whole high school course is, if my memory isn't fooled, around 1345 hours. This is incredible! In such a long time, the elephant should learn any language. Inara is absolutely right, the teachers are really complaining that nobody works with them. There are requirements, but no one offers new methodologies, does not produce effective teaching materials, etc. So no one is asking for Estonian language less, they want other subjects to be given in their native language. Mr Allik asked the question of what to change here, the language of instruction is at least 60%. How do you know what to change? This is a typical social democratic duality. You know that there is not only this provision in the law, but there is an article that clearly says that the language of comprehensive school is Estonian, the language of upper secondary school is Estonian. These two things have to match up. What, though, is bothering our colleagues at the IRL? They don't read one paragraph like you, they still read two paragraphs that explain each other. But anyone can be wrong, I'm lost too. I used to think that Jaak Aaviksoo was the Minister of Education, worse than talking about the attitude to the Russian gymnasium, couldn't be. Now I have to change that position, and since I have already said it, I have to apologize. In fact, Aaviksoo is compared to Ossinovski when it comes to Russian schools, like a white dove compared to a falcon. Really! Colleagues, we are talking about the wrong things. Instead, we need to talk about the fact that the young Minister of Education wants to achieve a B2 level in primary school. Just so you know: in Narva, where at least one-quarter to a third of Estonian Russian-language gymnasts are studying, the level in primary school is such that less than half of the students do this exam at all. In recent years, this figure has been 49 to 53%. And the average grade in these exams is 2.89 That means something's wrong in middle school. Actually, we could move down more. The foreign language is best understood in the right young childhood. I speak Estonian because when we moved to Tartu, there were no places in Russian kindergartens and, of course, I do not remember it, but I have been told that I started speaking in Estonian for about a month. This means that if you were to study Estonian in kindergarten, you would save a huge amount of money. There is a kindergarten in Narva that employs an enthusiast, a former colleague from the language center. For more than ten years, I have tried with him to make it clear to ministers and bureaucrats of all kinds from the Ministry of Education and colleagues from the Riigikogu that language education needs to start in kindergarten. In the city of Narva, where the Estonian language is not funny, a child from the Russian family is brought to this kindergarten, and if he goes to school after kindergarten, he has no particular problem. They speak Estonian, all these children probably. That's where we gotta start! How long can we talk about this? It is intended to make exactly the same mistake as in upper secondary school, except that Minister Ossinovski is planning to start a massacre. He wants a level of B2 if not even a B1 can be achieved! Do you have any idea what the results of the basic school exams will be when they're taken to B2? There must be some way, even theoretical, to achieve this. The minister tells you what it takes to do that he has a model for assessing school leaders essentially developed, he's a philologist, he's been working in school for a lifetime, he knows how these things work, he's got it all figured out. The model has been developed, and the main content of this model is that I am now quoting from the Minister of Education that the Commission, consisting of specialists from the Ministry of Education, the School Leaders' Association and national self-government associations, will provide periodic feedback to all school leaders on their work. I mean, he's starting to appreciate their work. The Ministry itself does nothing. There is no need for new methodologies, no need for transition textbooks, which have been spoken for for 15 years. All you have to do is beat up those who don't meet the requirements. If the results are poor and the objectives are not achieved, the next step is for the Commission to propose that the head of school be removed from office. Well, clearly, the Ministry doesn't do anything, but it's a school problem. The director's guilty! Of course, he needs to be dismissed. But maybe the local government doesn't think so? Perhaps the local authority considers that the director is carrying out his duties exactly as foreseen and is being harmed? Then the next step is: if the municipality continues with the same head of school and basically nothing changes, then the Administrative Procedure Act basically allows for the withdrawal of the training permit. Colleagues, this is out of line! We don't develop new methodologies, we don't give you textbooks, but we're gonna demand and we're gonna kick your ass. In our area, this means that a school manager who does not want to be fired or that the school loses a training permit will be massively firing teachers who seem to be failing to fulfil their obligations and employ unemployed teachers from other areas, who have enough children in Estonia, as there are fewer and fewer children.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U39	Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U40	I don't get any more time, do I?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U41	The extra time is already over. Thank you. Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U42	Prime Minister! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I had no plan at first to come here before you, but since this is an exciting topic such as teaching Estonian, I decided to come and talk about my personal experience. I guess I have to be the product of our education system, which teaches Estonian at school, and that is why it is a valuable member of society. Speaking of myself, I have discovered several times in my life that I do not speak Estonian at all. Although I thought I was very good at speaking Estonian and speaking Estonian, I have discovered it several times. This was the first time I came to Tallinn to study. I came from Kohtla-Järve, a town where everyone speaks Russian and where I had three or four hours of Estonian at school a week. I thought I could speak Estonian, that I could speak very well in Estonian and understand everything. But I came to college to sit in a lecture and just watch my mouth open because I don't understand anything. This was the first time I realized how badly I speak Estonian. The second time I went to work after college. By the time I graduated from the university, I thought that now I knew Estonian very well and understood everything. But I went to work and found again that I didn't know how again I didn't understand anything. Although I should understand, I studied at a school where all subjects were in Estonian. And that's how I've happened many times in my life. So far, it happens that I feel that I do not understand and understand Estonian. How did this study of Estonian take place? Where did I begin to understand the language most and to understand Estonian people, Estonian language and culture? The understanding began when I became familiar with and friends who spoke Estonian, who told me how they saw Estonia's history, Estonia's past, future and present. Unfortunately, it wasn't until after I entered the Centre Party that this happened for the first time. Basically, my knowledge of the Estonian language and the normal level of communication I have reached are from a specific organisation of which I have been a member for years. Not only do I have to take an interest in the Estonian language, but I, too, have an interest in me being spoken to, and I am being communicated with. I tell you that I have spent tens of hours in lectures where teaching was in Estonian. Yes, I learned the words, I learned these subjects, but before they started to communicate directly with me in Estonian, I almost didn't know the language at all. Putting students at the table to study mechanically and bringing them a lesson from a Russian-speaking teacher, who himself speaks faulty Estonian, is certainly not the solution. This is not the solution if children memorize sentences, formulas, and words for hours. When the school is over, first of all, they still don't speak Estonian, second of all, they don't know the subject, and third of all, their learning results are poor. I think that this system needs to be changed, to be able to communicate with people. I call for any person whose native language is Estonian to take one Russian as a friend and integrate him into the Estonian environment, into Estonian life, to tell him what Estonian history was, what the current world view of the Estonian people is, what they think. In a word, I'd talk to the Russian. But with some system, 60:40 or some other system, you will not learn Estonian. I don't think that's how you learn any other language when there are harsh norms and conditions, when there's a political struggle, but nobody really cares what children feel, what their emotions are, what they think of something and what they want in life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U43	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U44	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, I have, in general, understood what Mr Stalnukhin has been talking about for four years. He speaks quite clearly and is one of the best orators in this hall. Today, however, I have to say that, unfortunately, I did not understand what you really wanted to say, dear colleague. You yourself have repeatedly said that at the B1 level, which the parties in Narva receive, the parties cannot learn subjects in Estonian at the upper secondary school. Those are your words. It's a school concept of discrediting. I myself have been in classes where indeed a half - language teacher teaches half - language students, and this is neither language training nor study of subjects. That's all Ossinovsky talks about! That's what he opened up to, with the aim of getting the B2 level at the end of junior high. And that is, of course, the goal that no one hopes to achieve in either one day or one year is impossible. To talk about some massacre, about the dismissal of teachers, about the transport of teachers from other parts of Estonia to Narva, you do not know why they should come there. What language would they teach there? It's all nonsense. The Minister of Education has told us that there is a programme that provides EUR 10 million over a period of five years for the preparation of teaching methods, textbooks, specialists. The current situation is that more than 50% of Estonian language teachers in Estonian Russian schools, I don't know Narva's data, are not Estonians. There are certainly people among them, such as Mr Stalnukhin himself, who can perfectly teach Estonian, but it is known that, to a large extent, this Estonian language, which is also spoken in Estonian class, is not the best Estonian language. There is no point in further producing such a situation. That is why it is a different basic goal that at the end of comprehensive school the student should be able to speak Estonian at B2 level and should also be able to speak English at B2. And in the 21st century, in high schools, we should ensure that good specialists teach there, whether they teach in English, Estonian or Russian. We're in the 21st century! My personal opinion is that language must be taught in language classes, subjects must be taught in a language that the student knows enough and is perfectly mastered by the best specialist who could teach the subject. That's the whole point. However, I would like to correct the fact that, in his opinion, the Commission, which was referred to here, was created at the request of the City Government of Tallinn. No, it was the Commission that was established under the Coalition Agreement. There is a point in the coalition agreement that talks about the need to carry out an analysis of the transition to Estonian-language learning in Russian upper secondary schools. That was the Commission. It was politically parite: there were two representatives of the Reform Party, including one member of the Reform Party, the director of the Russian school, and two representatives of the Social Democrats and teachers of higher education institutions. They did indeed come to the opening of the picture that the Minister of Education has spoken about. As far as the amendment of the law is concerned, I have already said from this speaker's point of view that the amendment of the PGS 60: 40 cannot be done at all, because this point says that the school language is the one that provides at least 60% of the subjects. There's nothing else to do. Next, it has been said that Estonian is a language of instruction, and it has been said about upper secondary school that Estonian is a language of instruction. And it hasn't caused any problems in middle school. Nor has the Honourable Centre Party ever protested against it and, as far as I know, wished to amend this point of the law, that the language of instruction in Estonian is also Estonian in primary school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U45	Would the Prime Minister like another word? No, I don't. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U46	Now you can register for a speech in a free microphone after the hammer hit. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U47	Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, Mr Allik left the hall, but I hope he will at least read after the verbatim. Oh, hello again! You said you didn't understand what I was talking about. But what we have is that no one understands what the specialists are saying. We have, in this way, that the Committee on Economic Affairs or the Committee on Monetary Affairs takes decisions when it comes to business and businessmen, and absolutely does not want to listen to what businessmen's associations are saying. Decisions are made, for example, by former actors, musicians, journalists, etc., who have never done any business. Or some laws are passed that go in to local governments. Who makes these decisions? Unfortunately, there are quite a number of people who have never worked in a local government. You don't understand me, dear Jaak, because I speak as an Estonian teacher. I am telling you that during the last four years, transitional textbooks have been needed, it has been necessary to deal with the methodology of teaching the Estonian language. There are almost 900 hours in primary school alone, and there should be plenty of them to teach the Estonian language in a high-quality manner. But it doesn't work! The young minister goes the exact same way again: he does not teach the Estonian language but wants to start teaching new subjects in Estonian. Where does it lead? I hope I can tell you a story, read it on the Internet, and a gentleman from Narva told it. Sitting in his house, hopping! There's a doorbell ringing. The man goes to the door and asks who is. Answer: 'This is I, Mr Ossinovski, Minister of Education. ' The man opens the door, the Minister of Education. The Minister says: 'I am your candidate for the Riigikogu. Can I help you with something? 'The man takes the minister's hand and drags him into a room where he sits sad, like a girl in tears, about 13 years old. He says, "We happen to have a mother away. I don't know the Estonian language, the girl doesn't know the Estonian language, but she's in a immersion and it's necessary to learn biology in Estonian from an Estonian school with an Estonian textbook. Come on, help! 'The minister says, 'No, no, I have bigger goals. ' And he's leaving. This is the same thing. How can this be done? You know, I go to school a lot right now. In one place, when I quoted our Minister of Education, all the teachers began to laugh. We were talking about his speech in this room on 19 January, where he said that it was necessary to set the goal of achieving the B2 level for the final exam in primary school. The Minister said: "The majority of Estonian teachers say that a higher level cannot be achieved. I say he can. " Damn it, what is this again! Does that mean that any man who's played football in his youth can be our team coach? Can anyone who has received an injection be a doctor? Can anyone who has received an education be a minister of education and work with not teachers, not experts who have taught Estonian for decades, but other specialists from Innoves, who can only write curricula and do not know anything about methodology or schoolwork? So, yes, we speak different languages. Formally, it's the same Estonian language, but never do business lovers understand professionals, and it pisses me off the most. I have five textbooks, several dictionaries, I have been teaching Estonian for ten years, and I speak to you like a specialist something you should have understood in four years after all. But you don't want it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U48	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U49	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The alarming news from the dairy sector in recent weeks has been quite worrying. The buying-in price of milk remains at the level of one in ten producers of milk which can be closed by the end of the year. According to statistics, almost 1 000 workers in the agricultural and forestry sectors are already looking for work. It is feared that 8,000 decent dairy cows will either find their way into a meat combinate or be sold to producers in other countries. Last week's Landpaper wrote: "The black figures are based on the fact that industries are unable to find a market for dairy products after the Russian import ban. " In the current economic situation, it is very important that the country lends its help to farmers. The Foreign Trade Minister has come here and there and met people, but there is nothing tangible. The dairy farmers are dying out, and the people are going to be out of work before any results can be seen. Within the framework of the European common agricultural policy, the country has the possibility of paying additional payments to farmers, but unfortunately our ruling parties have not found it necessary. Last year's budget did not give farmers a single cent of top-up support, and no money has been found in this year's budget, even though the Central Party's proposal was to find the 23 million. The only thing that the country has done is that it has received and distributed an extraordinary amount of EUR 6.9 million from the European Union. At the same time, it must be stressed that the state can add the same amount. Latvia, Lithuania and Finland have found this money, the Estonian state is not yet. I can't tell you how bad things should get for the government to open its eyes. Reducing milk production is not a stand-alone step. Reducing milk production leads to a chain reaction. If we have a tenth of less cows, we'll sell less feed and less milk to deliver. The contraction of milk production also affects the businesses involved and threatens jobs there. The closure of dairy farms reduces the income of rural municipalities and produces unemployed people, as it is difficult for people to find other jobs in the area. The production complexes, however, begin to disintegrate and become ghost castles. It's a shame about investments that all have to be written in the chimneys. All these problems occur in a situation where Estonian dairy producers stand out in Europe for their efficiency. I repeat: have the investments really been made in vain? If indifference continues, the number of jobs in rural areas will decrease further, shops and schools will be closed, post offices and branches will be closed. The country should put on its side where it needs to, not give the process a boost. The government should reconsider its priorities and come to the aid of farmers. It's not too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U50	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U51	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Disputes in this Chamber of the Riigikogu do not want to end in any way. It seems that this composition must even be extended to allow us to close our disputes and to achieve certain results here in the Riigikogu. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. I wanted to say that this is the time for a bitter electoral campaign and, of course, sometimes it is very good for the opposition to attack the coalition, that many work has not been done and that everything has to be done very quickly. However, it takes a little bit, and it requires a lot of system change, a lot of money. But I also wanted to say that during the election it is sometimes very strange to watch pensioners be dragged into the yellow bus for coffee, red bags and pancakes, light blue gloves and green balloons on the streets. Everyone shares their own, but people care more about how they handle themselves. They are concerned that, especially in South-East Estonia, there are small wages and therefore very small pensions. People are very worried that they work, that they work hard every day for eight hours, but their pension is still calculated by the fact that there is a very large gap between those who receive a large pension. Indeed, there are many people who have earned a tiny pension. We must admit that in 1999 no one could have anticipated that the pay gap between Tallinn and South-East Estonia, for example, would be so great. No one likely thought that pension accounts would produce such large scissors and that there would be so many people who would receive a very high salary that they would also earn a large pension to old age, and those who would earn a small wage would receive so much less. So the Riigikogu has plenty of work to do. I believe that, no matter how the pension system is changed, pension accounts must not be kept in such a way as to create very large margins in pensions. I would also like to mention that I listened to Saturday's "Stay in the State," where Mr Kaldre wondered why security did not become the main topic in the run-up to these elections, why it was not discussed energetically. But indeed, meeting people has shown that the main concern is not security. Everyone loves his country and hopes that the country will be protected, but security is also when people are paid for their work, so that they can cope with their daily lives. And security is also the case when people are paid a decent pension for their contribution to work. Finally, I would like to say that I have worked consistently to ensure that waiting allowances at the Koidula and Luhamaa border crossing points are abolished. The Ministry of the Interior has received a reply from the lounge managers that they agree to amend the contract so that vehicles of categories A and B are directed directly to the border crossing and no longer need to pass the lounge. As soon as the Minister of the Interior amends and signs this agreement, it is up to him to decide. I think that this is a great victory for South-East Estonia and for all those who need to cross the border in the future and who currently have to pay an entirely unfair waiting fee. Soon, the cars of these categories will be directed immediately to border crossings and the identity will not need to be established by waiting area managers, but by border guards at the border crossing point according to Estonian state law. We have another free microphone round ahead, it's next Monday. Well, we'll argue a little bit more and then we'll wrap it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U52	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U53	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good listeners who listen to us and maybe see us on TV! Now you're wondering what else I'm gonna say. And you won't be disappointed in me. You could cheat on something else. It could be disappointed how our country has been run for 15 years. One could be disappointed by what our clay-legged economy looks like. We have over 600,000 earners and about 7% of them really produce something constructive, but the remaining 93% store something, carry around, sell to each other or to anyone else, they count, they process, they fine. Our economy is what it is. We can't support our country. Our economic system looks like a pie co-operative of its own, where a sissy baked pies and ten nephews were CEOs. We cannot support our social system. We cannot support health care. The Health Insurance Fund's screwed up. In this way, this cannot go on; such an economic system is not sustainable. Our tax system is such that 60% of the tax revenue is collected by the state through indirect taxes, they are VAT, they are excise duties that rise every year. Of course, the state is not interested in reducing alcohol advertising. And in the form of taxes, most of the state's income is paid by the poorest people, but 10% of it is the rich who have God's clays, they have their own accountants, they'll do it. We are totally in debt because foreign investors were invited in their time. Yes, Estonia needs foreign investment. They came, you ticks. They came to some even those in their own country who are wanted and bought everything where any money moved. Here you go, now we have big supermarket chains, gas stations and banks, and all belong to foreign investors. The income will be taken out of the country and the Estonian will be forced to slave for the cripples. He's got enough left to buy himself a slave lobe, that's all. We're totally in debt! Indebted is a farmer who sows the grain of money bought on a pawned plot of land. You have to pay interest to the bank. Indebted are the Estonian families, who are told to see how well you live, you have a house, you have a car, you have an apartment. But they're all bought for debt. The debt burden is such that families are forced to take fast loans to pay interest at least. And these would be debts to Estonian banks. No, these are debts to Swedish banks, which in turn belong to larger banks. The peaks of the financial pyramids lead out to Wall Street, where nine giants decide whether the Estonian people can still pay interest or stop this nonsense, we demand a return of the basic debt. And then they take the houses, the apartments, the cars, the fields, and they say, "Get on your back, get on your back, get on your feet." Now that's a real security risk. Alongside all this, our Prime Minister advertised the Reform Party in the middle of an empty airport, saying that we are now marching in the exact same direction, still at the edge of the abyss, and showing that this is the right direction, because NATO aircraft are flying there. Where do these planes fly, and do they do Estonia's business where they fly? I'm not sure. NATO aircraft still have the habit of circling where there is a smell of oil, we do not have oil. All we have are debts that will be recovered once and for all. You might think I'm talking some kind of anti-government talk. I'm not talking against the state. I love my country just as you love your country. But I don't like the way this country's been run for 15 years. It has been guided by the fact that we have come to a place where there is nowhere to go. You can't go on like this. I have said this from my heart now, but you people have the opportunity to say your word on 1 March. Say your word! Say your word to the 22% who currently support the Reform Party and believe what is promised to them, believe that they will reach where they cannot reach. 101 members of the Riigikogu and 14 ministers arrive among the richest five, but where is the Estonian people? Think differently, decide differently, and we'll do it together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-02-09_U54	The sitting is adjourned. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 4:13 p.m.
