ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 39th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Dr. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Mrs. Vojka Šergan from 15:00, Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer from 16:00 to 18.30, Violeta Tomić from 13.30 p.m., Mr. Primož Hainz from 17:00 to 20:00, Mr. Roberto Battelli, Mr. Matjaž Germany from 16:00 p.m., Mr. Ivan Hršak from 15.30 p.m., Mr. Ivan Škodnik, Dr. Mitja Horvat from 13.30 to 16.30, mag. Dušan Verbich by 5 p.m., mag. Branislav Rajić, Dr. Franc Trček by 1 p.m., Luka Mesec by 11.30 p.m., Mr. Janez Janša and Matjaž Hanžek. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 19. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments to the International Protection Act. The draft law was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, the group of 14 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u2	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! Things have changed, in all the countries around us are the right governments, the government of Mira Cerar was the last left government in this part of the world that fell a few days ago. Of course, that changes a lot. In Italy, 600,000 illegal migrants are predicted to be killed, 50 000 in Austria, Germany and other northern countries are talking about reimmigration, that is to say the return of migrants on the road from which they came. Things are changing everywhere, except in Slovenia, where Ahmad Shamieh still has a nice flair for Ljubljana and has a nice place at the expense of Slovenian taxpayers, but this is a matter of the Slovenian government and politics. But what is the problem is, you can read it yourself in the media or see it in the media, as far as it's reported, is that people who are obviously illegal migrants are even caught in a crime or directly after it and then they rely on the right to asylum and initiate procedures and it costs it. And if this is going to happen in the circumstances that I was talking about, the circumstances where there is something else to be said to revive the Balkan path, that the influx of migrants after it is three times greater than it was in the comparable period of last year, and that on a new path that runs through Bosnia, through the territory of the Wahhabits, which we should be more concerned about from a security point of view. In view of all of this, of course, it is necessary to do so in time – that is to say, before things get worse – all that Slovenia does not become a haven for all those who would either be expelled from other European countries or commit acts under a criminal code in Slovenia. Of course, it is properly defined in Slovenian rules, and since we all know how long it takes to get to the legal judgments, it is only reasonable to follow the options that we have and that some other countries are also using. By the way, all European countries now virtually without exception tighten migrant legislation and at the same time take additional measures to protect their borders. France, if anyone does not know this, is now adopting in a package of legislation that after a new one, like years ago, the crossing of the crime, the illegal crossing of the border is not only an illegal crossing of the border of the offence, as is the case in Slovenia. It should be noted that Italy has a land border with France, Switzerland, which is closed, with Austria, where special military units are ready to close Brenner and Brenner is not too interesting for migrants. Then the only limit left is the border with Slovenia. This is also the reason for the solutions I propose. Following these solutions, the procedures in which the State should take a decision would be substantially reduced and, above all, the conditions for the possibility of repaying the asylum application would be tightened. The application for asylum would be rejected following a criminal conviction if someone posed a threat to the Republic of Slovenia, if it were obvious, reasonable suspicion that someone had committed a crime before expressing its intention to file an application for asylum, particularly if he had been directly arrested in that regard, which is perfectly clear and in cases that are already frequently listed. So we'd cut down on the procedures and tighten the conditions. The aim of this law is, therefore, one alone — greater human security, greater security of citizens and citizens, in particular vulnerable groups in the Republic of Slovenia, the appreciation and reduction of procedures and the adaptation of Slovenian legislation to what is happening everywhere in the European Union, where the conditions for obtaining asylum in general for the possibility of applying for asylum and for the expulsion of persons who commit a crime or for whom there is a reasonable suspicion that they have done so are substantially exacerbated. You need to think in time, so now, before major problems arise. Once again, we are talking about re-immigrations now in the European Union, and exile is forecasting. Whoever I think these people are going to be waiting for this expulsion to actually happen, he's making a terrible mistake. What happens in these cases is that this is also a special security issue? Unfortunately, cases from Sweden to Italy are known, and then the likelihood of attacks, including terrorism, is even greater. Therefore, the acceleration of procedures is not only in the financial, economic interest, but mainly in the security interest of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u3	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister of the Interior who carries out the ongoing business, mag. Spring Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has examined and adopted an opinion on the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Protection that the draft law contains provisions which violate the provisions of the Convention on the Status of Refugees, as well as the provisions of the European legal order, in the field of international protection. Therefore, it does not support the proposal. Let me sum up the main findings of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia below. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inter-Agency Protection provides in Articles 1, 2, 4, 5 and 7 that the treatment of applications for international protection must take into account all offences which are prescribed in the Republic of Slovenia and, in this regard, proposes to define the concept of crime as grounds for exclusion from refugee status and subsidiary protection status. With regard to the proposal, I explain that the grounds for exclusion from refugee status are laid down by the Convention on the Status of Refugees in Article 1, in points d. e. and f. Within the scope of the Convention, they are also defined by the Council Directive on Standards, as regards the conditions to be met by third-country nationals or stateless persons in order to be recognised as refugees or persons who, for other reasons, need international protection and the content of this protection, the so-called Qualification Directive. The Qualification Directive also lays down grounds for exclusion from subsidiary protection status, which make sense to follow the grounds for excluding refugee status. The International Protection Act therefore summarises the grounds for exclusion from the refugee and subsidiary protection status under those legal acts. Furthermore, the proposal for a law in Article 3 provides that a foreigner wishing to enter the Republic of Slovenia with the competent authority must immediately express the intention to submit an application and at the same time state the reasons for the application and submit the application within three days of the entry into Slovenia, without giving rise to any reasons which he has not stated when he has expressed his intention to submit an application. In connection with this proposal, I explain that existing legislation does not set a time limit within which a person must apply for international protection, but allows an application which has not been lodged as soon as possible without a reasonable reason to be rejected as manifestly unfounded. The Directive on common procedures for the recognition or withdrawal of international protection, the so-called procedural directive and, consequently, the applicable law on international protection provide that an application for international protection must not be rejected or excluded from consideration solely because it has not been lodged as soon as possible. In doing so, it should be clarified that the timing of the statement of intent to submit an application for international protection is always assessed individually and on a case-by-case basis and in the light of all other substantive circumstances of the particular case. Also with regard to the provisions of Articles 8 and 9 of the proposed law to withdraw the status of international protection in the event of serious violations of the house order, I explain that the proposed provisions are contrary to the Convention on the Status of Refugees and the acquis of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u5	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Left Group, for which Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u6	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everybody! We have one thing to clear up first. The Government of Mira Cerar has already achieved everything that can be achieved in the field of asylum legislation years ago. What's that? Two years ago, it definitively reduced all standards to a possible minimum permitted by the European acquis. And that minimum is really embarrassing. In fact, that government had already fulfilled all the desires that the SDS preach even now. Under the pretext of so-called deterrence measures, Slovenia has made it impenetrable, which is also confirmed by all official statistics. Moreover, the government coalition, by means of amendments to the law, wanted to introduce even an illegal provision in order to prevent the appeal from being expelled in expedited proceedings. Fortunately, at least this was not accepted because the amendment of the Left was adopted at the assembly. Look, Slovenia already has one of the most rigorous and firm asylum laws. He neither accepts any refugees from Syria, rather deported them to Croatia. The percentage of positive applications resolved over the last ten years is around 6%. Turkey has also been defined as a safe country of origin for Kurds, and the government coalition has further strengthened and tightened the scope of rights by means of a new law on international protection and adopted an anti-constitutional law on foreigners, which even suspends the possibility of investing in asylum. The coalition then adopted a package of repressive legislation, legislated mass control, assigned police powers to the military, and eventually bought a water cannon. But all of this is obviously too small or too small for SDS. For they would go all the way and all the way. In fact, it is at least cynical, if not distasteful, that the Government, in its opinion on the amendments to the Law on International Protection proposed in the SDS, refers precisely to the fact that the SDS proposals now go overboard, that the deletion of minimumist European standards cannot be exceeded by the fact that we have already reached the minimum that is the point of nothing. And why? Because, of course, she did it on her own. So, dear Branko, this is where the SMC has already used up all the bullets with the interior secretary at the head. And also because of this I am not out of the mind of the recent words of Comrade Grims, quote: “This will be the last left government to fall in this part of the world, all around us is already on the right.” End of quote. Now, if I leave behind the fact that this government was not left, we have to imagine what this right one is, which is actually being painted for us by today's proposal. Let's see what this right-wing future is like after the SDS. Let's start in the west, Italy. Just recall the recent image from the tunnel Bombi in Gorica, that is the tunnel where hundreds of refugees slept and lived under inhuman conditions because the authorities did not find them a suitable place to live. Remember the recent shooting in Macerati. A member of the North League, an Italian party, including their candidate in local elections, injured several immigrants in a car raid. At the North League, however, there are various pro-fascist and neo-fascist parties such as Fatelli d'italia, Casapound, Forza nuova, etc. Fascist or Roman greetings, as he is told today, are becoming commonplace and, most disturbingly, acceptable. Next, Austria. Since 2016, right-wing hatred has doubled to refugees and the number of attacks on installations for fugitives with incendiary objects has increased. Graffiti are spreading with Nazi symbols, the cry of Adolf Hitler, Nazi runes, swastikas, etc. People are publicly threatening to shoot dogs, and that's what they're thinking about people who've fled the wars that Brussels and Washington aren't fighting. And there is also no unusual fact that the far right neo-Nazi parties are on the rise. And at the end of Hungary, where members of police and military units beat up refugees at borders, where humanitarian organizations report that during the worst winter they watered people and left them out in the cold after they had taken their warm clothes. This right Hungary, which rejects any solidarity mechanisms within the European Union, is the champion of the V4 group, to which they would like to lead us to the SDS. I wonder if these are the values they advocate, in fact, this new right world they're painting. It is clear that refugees in Slovenia are not wanted. Government policy does not want them, but even less the far right in the form of SDS. On the other hand, let us let those who are still trying to break into this so inhospitable country cross the first obstacle that is natural, this is a cold and deadly Kolpa, immediately followed by artificial obstacles, Cerara's razor and panel fences, and now imagine a third, in this new image of the present future that they want in the SDS, will come upon the most abstract obstacles, these are the inhospitable Grims' legislation. Now, what's worse, judge for yourself. We do not want such a future for Slovenia in Levika, of course we will not support the law, we will not participate in this farce, which is a disgrace to humanitarian, asylum and international law, but we do not intend to.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u7	The text is by the Party's Group of Members [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, I'll tell you all about it, and then I'll give it to you on a procedural basis. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Parties, for which Mr Marko Ferluga has to wait, because he has a procedural Mr Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u8	Mr President, we know that you generally allow anything in your views, but if someone so subdued, which is the characteristic of Antifa throughout Europe, as the representative of the Left has just done, he deserves at least a reminder, if not the exclusion of the microphone. I was talking about the safety of people, about the safety of Slovenian citizens and citizens, and he's talking about Nazism and I don't know what else. If anyone has a problem with totalitarian signs, it's Left. In the SDS, we have always rejected all forms of totalitarianism, and I myself have been twice a proponent for the European Convention on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which absolutely and categorically rejects all totalitarianism – Nazism, fascism and communism – and all their signs and forms. May this be an example for you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u9	Now, in order to present the position of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Marko Ferluga has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the best minister and coworkers! At this last regular meeting of the National Assembly, we are again discussing only the propaganda programme of the SDS Group on the refugee crisis. Nothing new. In early February this year, the SDS introduced two draft laws which have the sole purpose of bringing Esdees' winter political refugee crisis back to the political agenda just ahead of the national elections, of course following the example of neighbouring countries where political parties such as Kurz's Austrian People's Party and Salvinije's League, Orban's Fidesz, and similar, are coming to power with such topics. It is therefore the last attempt this year to use the refugee crisis as its own party and ideological promotion. This does not surprise us in the SMC Group, for this has been happening since the day our first refugees crossed our border. Otherwise, it is also a case of an attempt by SDS to recycle what has already been seen. They also tried the same double law on international protection and protection of public order and peace in December 2015. Mr Möderndorfer has prevented the intention of burka and nikabi by means of a novel, which has remained in the legislative process. However, the second part concerning the legal regime of international protection, given that the SDS failed in 2015 to make proposals for serious breaches of EU international law, decided this time or 2018, just before the elections, to try the principle of lesser evil. They seem to believe that voters and voters have a short memory and do not distinguish between crimes and worse crimes such as war crimes or crimes against humanity, so this time they did not seek to violate the Convention on the Status of Refugees in Article 1 and in points d, e and f, also defined within the scope of the Convention by Council Directive 2011/95/EU of 13 December 2011 on the conditions to be met by third-country nationals or stateless persons in order to be recognised as refugees. Recycled provisions on the withdrawal of the status of international protection are also withdrawn in the event of serious violations of the house order, contrary to the Convention on the Status of Refugees, which constitutes a basic act for the protection of refugees, and Directive 2011/95/EU, which sets out the grounds for the cessation and withdrawal of refugee status. Given that the law in force fully follows the provisions of the UN Convention and the EU directives, the proposal of the SDS de facto constitutes a failure to respect Slovenia's international obligations, while at the same time it represents water to the mills of those who undermine the legitimacy and validity of international law and thus the existence and functioning of both international organisations, such as the UN and the EU, of which we are members. In the SMC Group, we do not support the bill. Nevertheless, we are aware that migration today is a global problem and, of course, a pan-European problem. No Member State can successfully deal with migration on its own and cannot resolve it in a partial manner. That is why we need a new European, more harmonised approach and not the divisions imposed by some. Further surveillance at the internal Schengen borders shows that if we want a European Union without internal borders, we need a different asylum and integration system, while not forgetting the principle of humanity and providing protection and assistance to refugees against persecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u11	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u12	Your Honor! The biggest security challenge for Slovenia and the European Union is the migration flows. Discussions on security issues related to migration are therefore necessary, and several times we should ask and answer the question whether we are sufficiently ensuring the security and property of our citizens and citizens. It is worrying that last year, Slovenian police officers dealt with a thousand 930 illegal state border crossings, almost 80% more than a year earlier. This is not about organised migration flows, but it is about a dispersed flow, which is being joined by various criminal associations. Also, according to police data in 2017 alone, more than 850 people were discovered in the Republic of Slovenia without relevant documents and over 3 000 800 people were treated for illegal stay in the Republic of Slovenia. It is, of course, important to stress that this is a matter of being honest and concerned and that the real number is therefore even higher. Finally, it is also important to talk about why we remain the only country on the migration path that has not changed asylum legislation to follow the pressures of the migratory wave and give appropriate answers to it. Here is also the issue of the quota system, which is resisting and increasingly opposed by more and more European countries in the European Union. It is true that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have already been drawing attention to migration issues, and in due time we have also proposed a number of measures and solutions that the SMC, SD and Desus coalition, with the help of the Left, ignored, reversed and rejected. We have heard some of this today in our views. We have even received reports of exaggeration and intimidation from the coalition for the proposed measures, which, when it saw that it caused irreparable damage through its passiveness, eventually, although late, the coalition only accepted them. Slovenia has been illegally crossed by over half a million migrants. Today, many of them are known to have been involved in various forms of criminal, violent and terrorist acts across Europe. In Germany, between 2015 and 2016, a total of 10.4% of the increase in the number of reporting of violent acts was recorded, with 92.1% of these acts attributed to migrants. In this national assembly, we have also witnessed an absurd situation when the helpful proposals of the Minister of the Interior, which today opposes our proposal, were undermined by its own coalition, while the opposition supported its proposal because it was aware of their importance when it comes to protecting our country. With the proposed solutions to the Law on International Protection, we do not deviate significantly from the current objectives of the current law. The solutions that we are proposing follow what we should support in this national assembly, all of us who are aware that we are elected to the parliamentary functions of citizens and citizens in order to make them, first and foremost, ensure that they feel safe in the country, that our common assets are safe and that they will live a decent life and not feel like second-rate citizens. As a result, in this amendment we propose to tighten the circumstances under which the status of international protection or subsidiary protection is not recognised if there is reasonable suspicion that a person in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia has committed a crime. At the same time, it is complemented by a provision determining when the application is inadmissible and, consequently, when the application is rejected by a decision, in the event that the applicant has committed a crime in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia prior to that and has been arrested, or if the applicant has been given an expulsion decision by another EU Member State. And one more thing, I hope that at this time, when we have talked a lot about migration and migration flows, we are only able to make a distinction between migrations or migrants and refugees. Dearly noted, no declaration provides that when we speak of migrants, the legal order of the Member States of the Republic of Slovenia should be disregarded, so they must also be subject to the same laws and rules in this society. Respected, despite the fact that more than 300,000 people live on or below the threshold of poverty in Slovenia, in the fact that many people are hiding this situation, although they themselves are not guilty of being in it, in the fact that many pensioners have literally lived, even though they have worked their entire lives hard and have lost their whole health, and in the fact that our country is being abandoned by young people who do not see the prospect in it, it is not permissible for those who rightly, but often unjustifiably, offer shelter and many benefits, to exploit and even afford to commit crimes that endanger the lives and property of others and violate the rule of law and peace in that country. In such cases, it is not the need for assistance, but a grave and unacceptable exploitation, which must not be tolerated in any way. Article 34 of the Constitution states that everyone has the right to personal dignity and security. With such a migrant policy, the government takes it to its own people. Let us not forget, too, the Court of Auditors' information that the average cost of the applicant is at least EUR 1,000 963 and therefore the crimes on their part are even more difficult and unacceptable. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a law. In the debate itself, ladies and gentlemen, I will also give specific examples from which you will be able to see for yourself that it is not refugees, but migrants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u13	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u14	Dear President, distinguished minister with co-worker, colleague and colleague, nice greeting! There is no surprise for the Desus Group such a proposal submitted by Members and SDS Members. The fact is that we have often discussed refugees or migrants in this mandate. From the right was and we are confident that this will be the case today, hearing a lot of inappropriate speech, awakening intolerance and fear among the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Since October 2015, the Republic of Slovenia has been under extreme migratory pressure, but we must stress that despite the high number of people crossing Slovenia, very few people have submitted a request for recognition of international protection in the Republic of Slovenia to date. Despite the severe migratory pressures, nothing special has happened so far, and we believe in the Desus Group that there is no need to tighten the conditions for obtaining international protection status at this time. Above all, we believe that the Convention on the Status of Refugees, as well as the Directive on Standards on the Conditions to be met by third-country nationals, should be taken into account when amending legislation on migration. The current law on international protection follows that directive, and the adoption of the proposed law would unduly affect the right to international protection, so Members and Members of the Commission cannot support it. As we have already said in addressing similar proposals, the fact that the absence of a common European migration policy leads to the search for unilateral solutions to the migration policy of individual countries, which has already resulted in the impact of domination, in particular in Greece and Macedonia, remains thousands of refugees and should certainly be assisted by these countries. In all this, it must be said that in no way can Slovenia be the victims of uncoordinated policies in the north, because in the absence of agreements Slovenia will also be forced to take even more decisive action on its own. As I have already said, in the Desus Group, we believe that the Government has already taken appropriate measures and there is no need for further exacerbation at this time. Of course, we understand that only two months before the elections came with such a proposal, but this is their election campaign, which we can see on the billboards by the roads, with which they teach a great deal the sign of the stop with which foreigners are being welcomed in the Republic of Slovenia. But where is this humanitarian law? Where did the feeling of a fellow man who was in severe distress and who was fleeing his home country to save his life to himself and his families get lost? Of course, we all want to ensure the safety of all citizens, there is no dilemma about that. And all of these measures taken so far by the Government have made it possible for our citizens to be safe and, finally, enable the safety of refugees. In the Desus Group again and again, we call for peace, solidarity and assistance to the needy. Unfortunately, we have witnessed the opposite in recent years. The right political gender has used the migration situation to benefit from the gathering of political points, which is by no means acceptable in a given situation. We must not forget, in the first place, we should seek humanitarianism, but certainly not political smooching. We do not support the SDS proposal. We believe that the government law on international protection, adopted in February 2016, has already sufficiently exacerbated the conditions for obtaining the status of international protection. The adoption of that law can also quickly determine who really needs protection and who is not justified for protection. It's over. Pope Francis said on the World Day of Refugees and Migrants in January 2018, citing: “It is a sin to give up meeting with another, with another, with a neighbor who is privileged to meet with the gentleman.” End of quote. What about you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u15	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Zvonko Lah, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u16	Dear President, Honourable Fellow Member and Fellow Members! The fundamental postulate of human security and security of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia is national security. It is about protecting, protecting and defending our national interests and objectives. For most citizens, security on the value scale is placed at the highest level. In this mandate, Slovenia faced the issue of illegal entry into the country. Not refugees, true refugees were, but illegal migrants, who were mass and without any control of our territory, were and could still be our main problem. However, it is clear that Slovenia is not obliged to accept an unlimited number of migrants entering the country illegally and is obliged to ensure public order and internal security. It is obliged to safeguard its sovereignty and constitutional goods, public order and internal security and the related human rights of its citizens. In Novi Slovenija we reiterate some facts. The European Union has shown no determination in deciding on the necessary measures to protect its external borders, thus helping to establish adequate control over the migratory flows and limiting them. Since a comprehensive common solution is not in sight, each country is solving the situation in its own right. As the common European policy in relation to the migration crisis does not work, Slovenia must also decide and act by itself to safeguard its sovereignty and ensure the security of citizens. As a democratic, legal and sovereign country, Slovenia must not agree to the concept of free and uncontrolled immigration into the European Union. Today we know that solutions at the very source of the crisis, that is, in the countries of the Middle East, cannot be expected for much longer. Given the growing likelihood that the arrival of migrants in the desired country, namely Austria, Germany and Sweden, will no longer be possible, our country will undoubtedly become a target country. Let's just look around. Austria renews control at the Schengen border over and over again. There is no free movement between neighbouring countries anymore. Hungary and the Multi-Graden countries have a strong and decisive anti-migrant policy. Croatia has also well protected its borders. Otherwise, we are not speaking so loudly today about refugees and economic migrants, which does not mean that the situation in autumn 2015 cannot repeat itself. The country is therefore obliged to protect our borders, our sovereignty, our culture and the millennial Slovenian roots. We have to say no to illegal migrants, our help is really only needed by real refugees, and these, as we have already mentioned, are very few. International conventions and agreements also do not give refugees the right to choose a country where they will apply for asylum, but they must apply for it in the first safe country. Foreigners do not enter Slovenia in order to apply for international protection, but mostly migrants entering from Croatia, i.e. from a safe country, should apply for asylum in their neighbours. Those migrants who do not have the conditions for entry into the country can be legally restricted to entry into the country. The admissibility of such restrictions is also permitted by the Slovenian Constitution. In doing so, Christian Democrats are once again reminding us of the vast possibilities for the influx of foreigners into our country through the institution of family reunification. The European Directive No 2003/86/EC lays down a set of persons who have the right to family reunification, which requires Member States to grant the right to family reunification only to spouses and minors to foreigners. However, our Law on Foreigners recognizes this right to a wide range of people. While other Member States of the European Union tighten the conditions for family reunification, our country still does not take this step to allow this right only to the closest family members. Such broad-basedness also means more resources at the burden of the State budget, which must allow such persons all other rights, health care, social protection, education and employment. As regards all these rights, these foreigners are equal to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In Novi Slovenije, when we adopted a new law on international protection in 2016, we proposed strengthening asylum legislation. We have proposed that a foreigner should apply for international protection within 5 days of entry into Slovenia, otherwise it is not entitled to asylum and is considered to have illegally crossed the state border. We have also proposed that the asylum-seekers' assets exceeding EUR 750 be seized and earmarked for the benefit of the State budget and that the right to housing, together with a person with recognised international protection, be recognised only as the narrowest family members of the asylum. We also considered that a person who has been convicted of a criminal offence, for each and not only of a more serious crime, or who has been found guilty of offences with elements of violence, is not granted asylum or deprived of it. Christian Democrats will be supported by the proposal for a new Law on International Protection.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u17	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u18	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a new Law on International Protection is aimed at ensuring national security, public benefit, human security and property by tightening the conditions for the recognition of international protection, in the view and belief of the applicants. Let me briefly summarize the goals of this novel. The time limit within which the alien wishing to enter Slovenia must express to the competent authority the purpose of the application and at the same time state the reasons for that. The application must be lodged within three days of entry into Slovenia. After now, the current provision must do so as soon as possible. The circumstances under which the status of international protection or subsidiary protection is not recognised shall be exacerbated if there is reasonable suspicion that a person has committed a crime in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. It shall be supplemented by a provision determining when the application is inadmissible and, consequently, when the application is rejected by a decision. All of this applies, for example, if the applicant has committed a crime in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia before and has been arrested or associated with this crime. The reason for the refusal is also the decision of the Member State of the European Union to expel the applicant. Finally, it also interferes with the definition of the terms relating to offences prescribed in the Republic of Slovenia. In its opinion, the Government noted and concluded that the solutions proposed for exclusion from refugee status constituted a violation of the Convention on the Status of Refugees and several Council Directives. And this is also why the proposed novels of the Law on International Protection are not supported. Social Democrats will follow the Government's view and we will reject the decision on the appropriateness of this amendment to continue the legislative process. But respected, migration or migration, as we call it, for the sake of finding work, for the sake of finding new experiences in life, for lack of food, water or suitable living conditions, for fleeing from war zones, for fleeing from negative weather impacts are part of the modern world and the challenge of the 21st century, Slovenia, Europe, the world. But it must be stressed that this novelty does not contribute completely to solving this global challenge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, mag. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u20	The only objective of the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal, therefore, was to ensure greater security from the SDS. Who are we sharpening the law for? Only for those who commit a crime or would have reasonable suspicion, and of course for those who would have been expelled by another country, and at the same time we are promoting procedures to the greatest extent possible, because this is in the economic, social and development interest of the State of Slovenia, because you all know that every month every asylum in Slovenia, according to the Court of Auditors, costs at least EUR 963 from Slovenian taxpayers, while Slovenian employees receive EUR 600 per month, while the pensioner is happy if he receives that much. This is said to be three times more for one illegal migrant than for a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. It is false humanism, ladies and gentlemen, it is false solidarity, it is the destruction of its own people and its development potential. This is essentially the greatest betrayal that ever existed, treason over its own nation. You are talking about international acts, you know, if international acts were respected, none of what has happened in recent years could have happened at all, because refugees after international acts in Slovenia are not in the European Union, nor should they be, at least not, which you have been offering for a long time. The real refugees were only those from Ukraine who had retreated from the violence of the pro-Russian units, but these, you will not believe, the European institutions do not treat them as real refugees and do not speak of them at all, but there is no quota for them, and there is one million in Poland alone, and there is another country in particular the Visegraj Group. Germany has already rejected 99.9% of them at the border into the eternal shame of the same Germany, which it has said about radical Islam, come all, the borders are open. And that's why we have the madhouse that we have because one part of the policy has taken the right to violate international acts. This was a grave violation of Slovenian rules and international rules, so that the borders opened up as they had been in the past period, and thus freed the prisoners and there was no end to the matter. According to international acts, you are only a fugitive in the first safe country in fact, but at least international acts allow one to walk from one country to another and go to one target country because it is the most flimsy country there. It's called an asylum shopping, ladies and gentlemen. This was a recent crime, and it is still a crime under official acts, but no one is pursuing it anymore. It is now an official policy and even a reference to them on behalf of some humanism. Well, a few years ago, there was a special consultation in the European Union about how to prevent asylum shopping, so that someone would go to one country alone, which is just fine with him, to ask for asylum. You didn't know that? Well, interestingly, you decide things you don't know. It was expressed that Slovenia has inexorably closed its borders. Now I don't know if we're living in parallel worlds or whether the gentlemen of the Left flew from the Moon to the head twice? There were 500 thousand, half a million illegal migrants going through Slovenia, and they're still going through, or not organized anymore, about what we said to the Cerar Express, but now in a dispersed stream, all possible smugglers with them, partly themselves, partially unconscious individuals for such or other reasons. According to Croatian estimates, these are official estimates of their services, up to one in five. So much so that you can imagine how much of this there is. The fact that we have no idea of how many asylum seekers, of course, is not the result of the regulations, but of what the Syrian said so beautifully that they asked him: “Look, Slovenia is so beautiful, would you stay here when you want to go on against Germany?” And he replied: “Slovenia? Here? Oh, ew, socialism, ew, red star, ew, Stalin, ew, Lenin. I'm going on." That's why the asylum boys didn't stay here. Because we are such a red exot in Slovenia, thanks to you, that the asylum seekers are still running elsewhere, because of course they understand what time it is. But it is true that things have changed, since they used to get their allowance everywhere before, they were accepted everywhere. Now, of course, only Slovenia is so stupid. Slovenia is the only country that still gives allowance to migrants to come here to ask for asylum or to make applications. The odds are dead anyway. This needs to be made clear. Our government is the only one who's still doing this. The quotas were always being played, including those countries that referred most to them, such as the country from which the European Commission's Commissioner comes, who now imposes quotas on others. Do you know what they did? It's a public secret. They picked up all those who could show a million euros, imported them, and now they shout: "Look how generously we have received asylum seekers. Now give them to you." Of course, for others there are those who have nothing, and who, by the way, represent everything before, only refugees. What kind of fugitives are they from Morocco, Algeria, Egypt, and I still don't know where not to list them? These are countries where there is no war, but they have been gone for a long time, but they are the majority, by the way, among them also a huge population of Kosovo, Albania and so on, that I do not list them. Of course, this has nothing to do with running away, this is a pure abuse of regulations. Abuse in the name of false humanism. Betraying our own people if we agree to it. And the SDS won't agree to that, I guarantee you. Then what happens? I'll paraphrase the gentlemen of the Left who went to set something up so nicely. This is said to be because of their vision of what the right Slovenia would be like, but I will tell you what the vision of the left Slovenia would look like in the same logic as before. It would look something like this, Slovenia left-wing: hundreds of dead in terrorist attacks, thousands of wounded, four hundred acid attacks – four hundred acid attacks have been in the UK alone in the last period, not reported at all, this is a matter that no one knew before the radical Islam in Europe was invaded. He's dying of honor. The last weekend in Germany was called Messerstecherei Week because there were so many attacks with knives by illegal migrants. Did you know that? No one reports about this in Slovenia. Then murdered cops, remorseful bombs. Sweden, once an example to the whole world, we all said, this is really a country where people like to live well, rich, peaceful, friendly country of good people. Today it is the world capital of rape, because they have gone not only through illegal, but through decades to import migrants from radical Islam who have completely different ideas. These are people who are differently raised, who have other values that do not belong in Europe. This needs to be made very clear. Radical Islam does not belong in Europe and has nothing to look for here. It has to be driven away from where it came from, or there will never be peace and security for people in Europe again. Don't think that Slovenia is immune before that. In Slovenia, too, sexual offences, attempted murder, serious violence, not just one, robbery, theft, anything and impossible forms of public order and peace violations have already been committed because of illegal migrants or asylum seekers. That's as much as you want. Has anyone reported this? When I first mentioned that there was also sexual violence, sexual violence, most media reported that this was not true, the only Slovenian news was so correct that they went to check it out, and of course the police confirmed it. And I'll give you a hint: it wasn't just one case, they're being investigated. Why is this so important? Things like I said have changed, ladies and gentlemen. Under the law, when you start a procedure, it's always a nicer form of law. This law, which is more in your favor until the completion of that procedure, is now to be thought, because of the changed circumstances, not as it was in 2015, when I warned myself, it was a madman, ha, ha, what migrants, but something is being shown to you, but within a few months, half a million migrants, illegal, across Slovenia, were no longer laughing at all. However, when it was seen that they would come, I again warned that we should set up a fence, that we and Zorman should declare a prison so that this flow could be directed elsewhere – we cannot defend the whole of Europe, but we can defend Slovenia – it was ridiculed again, because we are confused with our neighbours, because that is clear, we are confused with these, with others, there is no problem, just scaring people. How long has that deal been valid? It didn't work for 24 hours either! The minute they got here, it was the end of all the deals. You just have to rely on yourself. And that's what you should think in time. Due to these changed circumstances, ladies and gentlemen, it will be a disaster if Slovenia is formed as a refuge for those who will be expelled by others or for those who commit either crimes or serious offences in the field of public order and peace. All other governments are now predicting that they will send illegal migrants from which asylum seekers have come to speed this up as quickly as possible. It is in the neighbouring country that the extermination of an extremely large number of people is predicted. I don't know if you have any idea what the expulsion of 600,000 illegal migrants from Italy is, as predicted by the right government. Only 1 per cent of this will be in very serious trouble for Slovenia. Believe that these people will not wait there, but they will look for a way out to stay somewhere in the European Union. Where are they going? At this point in France, Macron is adopting a special package of legislation which is also part of the illegal border crossing will be a crime again. That's what Slovenia should introduce. We have the same border, with the same country, with Italy. Switzerland is closed with tanks, protecting the border. There's no one coming over there, there's a shooting if necessary. Austria has prepared special military units, it has already shown this twice. He can lock Brenner up with them whenever he wants. In addition, Brenner’s height is not the popular goal of illegal migrants or asylum seekers for transition. What's the limit, then it stays? Slovenia. Slovenia, which is already open to the south. Where the only thing that turned out to be really good and effective is the fence, the wire on the southern border, and despite the fact that it turned out to be extremely good, because according to official police data, virtually no one goes through where the wire is, but illegal migrants are now going through where the wires are not. More than 95% of them go where there are no wires, it is said that the wire still has a good preventive effect. Nevertheless, in the SD, Marjan Sarec, Leftists are to remove this fence immediately, to meet the limits in such situations, when things have changed, when it is clear that no one will easily go forward and Slovenia will become more and more pockets, Slovenia will also become a target country for illegal migrants or asylum seekers. Slovenia is not obliged to grant asylum protection to anyone. If there was a war in the neighbouring country, Slovenia would be the first safe country, and all refugees would clearly accept it, there is no problem with who lives would be at risk. Now, of course, the state can declare anyone a fugitive if it wants to, but it doesn't have to. The proof of this was that amendment by the government itself, which was once proposed by the Minister, and you have undermined it, then by your own coalition, that no one entering Slovenia through a safe country or from a safe country has the right to asylum in Slovenia, which is entirely and only, be careful, this is only in accordance with the international acts to which you refer. And that's why we need to keep thinking. Then there's the way false humanism is done by demagogies. Ladies and gentlemen, what have we heard from our colleagues in Desus? Where did the feeling of suffering and humanitarianism go? Oh, come on.Oh, my God! Now I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of Desus. You are in the government all the time, Slovenian pensioners are directly injured, according to the applicable legislation they have too low pensions because you damaged them because you were in the government. Slovenian pensioner now lives with 600 euros, some even with significantly less euros per month. For illegal migrants, which you want to import thousands of EUR 963 per month. Now I ask you: Where did your feeling get for the suffering of a fellow man in Slovenia, for the suffering of a Slovenian pensioner, ladies and gentlemen from Desus? Anything for strangers. Nothing for the Slovenes. No, Slovenia first. First of all, Slovenia. First it is necessary to take care of Slovenian citizens, first it is necessary to take care of Slovenian children, the safety of Slovenes and Slovenes, then it is only possible for anyone else and anyone else to take care of them. That is why we have proposed a law proposing only to tighten the conditions for asylum, that those who commit a crime be brought to the border by means of a rapid procedure and sent from where they came to speed up the procedures so that it does not waste money, which should therefore remain for Slovenian children, for health, for the safety of Slovenian people, for the education of Slovenian children, for the development of the Slovenian economy. This is what we need, ladies and gentlemen! Not the import of illegal migrants and the open border. This is anyway a failed story, and we must tell the quotas immediately and forever the end. I've always been against it. This must now be officially completed once, as it is practically done throughout Europe. Do you know how many of these quotas are actually implemented? There are 10, 20% in most countries. Only the Slovenian government imports them and imports them because it seems fine. And don't think about it because it's usually that excuse then, yeah, because they mostly moved on. Yes, that's true, ladies and gentlemen, only if you refer to international acts yourself, then you must know very well, and remember that, all we've started of the process, we can cash in back, we can't, we can't have them, someone will feel sorry for us, he'll do them himself, he'll send them where they came from, anyway. But it is very likely that in the face of an ever-increasing problem, with increasingly austerity measures taken by the whole of Europe, it is now likely that international acts will really start to be watched. And by international acts, we're going to cash all of these in the end and we're going back to Slovenia. And that's why this madness with illegal migrants has to end once and for all. In the first phase, at least where illegal migrants are involved in crime, crime should be brought to an end to the nonsense that asylum procedures continue to run. He who does this will be escorted to the border and called good-bye to him.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare for Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting, Madam Secretary! Of course, for all of us, Slovenia is the first. However, this does not mean that we need to talk in an extreme way. No extreme is good, no left, no right. But it is such a topic that will naturally arouse many emotions, and we can talk completely rationally about security in Slovenia, about security in Europe and in the world, or we can also talk about some extremes that are happening. I am glad that Slovenia is still a pretty safe country. However, we all know that the number of terrorist attacks and other criminal acts in Europe is, unfortunately, increasing. And with this, people who are frightened, who fear it, who regret to face it, often face it. Therefore, in today’s debate, each person can decide which direction to go, whether to talk about real things, or to go one way or the other. I do not think in any area of life extremes and exaggerations are good. But we need to look at the real picture. I would like to hear from the Minister what is the situation of illegal crossings across the border, how we act, what dangers threaten future and similar. So this bill can also be used for a purely real debate on the state of the country. Of course, our first concern must be our national security, the security of our citizens, and therefore we must fight first and foremost, so we must work first and foremost. We know that we have to separate refugees and migrants, many more migrants, from migrants. Above all, I want refugees, those at risk of life, to be helped and opposed to any way of protecting the illegal arrivals of migrants or trafficking in human beings, smugglers who serve at the expense of people's distress, and we must never support and approve of this anywhere. Therefore, we must respect the laws, so our authorities, who protect us, must do their utmost to protect our country and our people. It bothers me that in the Foreigners Act, we have given too much rights regarding family reunification, that we have been exaggerating here, that we have not only ensured the integration of the families of the closest family members, which is also under international conventions, but that we have greatly expanded this area in family reunification, which also means that we have increased the number of applicants or beneficiaries of various social assistance. But we all know that, unfortunately, poverty in Slovenia is also increasing, that there are also many Slovenian citizens, pensioners and even those with low incomes on the threshold of poverty and that it is the duty of our country to help or take care of, above all, our citizens, who have been working for a long time, who have also contributed to the state treasury paying taxes, so our first concern is primarily for them. Of course, Slovenia is also in solidarity with the aid needed, so in New Slovenia we always say that people who need help need help, but not to support trafficking in human beings, smugglers, illegal migrants and the like. I also cannot agree with the conduct of individuals or individual Members who, contrary to the existing decisions of certain people who have had relations, have even brought them to Parliament and have hidden them here, or have accumulated political points by means of them. That's not allowed. Before marriage, all Slovenian citizens must be equal and all asylum seekers or migrants must be equal before the law. This is also expected, of course, of all officials, and especially of Members, who are the legislative branch of the authorities, to respect laws and not act unlawfully and thus to collect points. Of course, Slovenia, we will say, fortunately, was not a target country in most cases, because many did not know that the quality of life in Slovenia was extremely high, of course they saw aid from other countries much higher and protection much higher, so they wanted primarily to other countries. However, some are only entitled to asylum in Slovenia and, as I say, to those beneficiaries, to help those who have come because they have actually been threatened with life, it is right to help. So let us be solidarity, but let us not be foolish and impose too much burden on ourselves, which we will not be able to bear, which will increase our danger, the threat of citizens, but let us be solidarity. So let's be solidarity, not foolish.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word to prepare Mr. Zvonko Lah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u24	Thank you very much. The fact that they're getting on my nerves, you already know that, don't you? Because reading bricks means your own incompetence. But still, it's not a topic, it's a matter of changing the law we've proposed. In fact, let me tell those who listen to us or watch us what we are discussing, because reading leaves, high - flying words, is what people do not understand. Why did we file this matter, and what do we propose? We simply suggest that someone who comes into our country and asks for international protection or asylum here and at the same time commits a crime to send him across the border where he came from. Secondly, those who have been expelled by foreign countries, of course we do not host in Slovenia. Look, there was a case in Illyrian Bistrica a while ago, and now take a real situation when a group of asylum seekers did it, I think, burglary, I think it was a break-in. Now you take the situation, in Illyrian Bistrica you have a break-in into house A, made by asylum seekers who fly across the border, but in house B you have the same break-in that Slovenian citizens make. Slovenian citizens go where? However, the police are arrested, and asylum seekers do not receive such a procedure, but go to an asylum. Does that seem normal to you? Do you think that's normal? If he breaks into a Slovenian citizen, he'll go to jail. If he breaks into an asylum, he'll go to an asylum where we'll pay him a thousand EUR 963 for his accommodation and care and all that's coming to him. If anyone in this room thinks it's normal, then he's insane. Then he is abnormal and acts against the interests of this country and its citizens. I repeat, it is not possible to deal with an asylum seeker in such a way that we will seek him out if he has broken in or committed a crime. And the most natural thing is to send him where he came from. That's the first one. Now let me say something about the state of Europe. I've been walking around Europe a lot lately, in Brussels, and we're also discussing this issue a lot. Look, Slovenia is the only country, no, the Slovenian government, I don't, is the only one representing the interests they represent in the West. So, let's loosen up the rules so as to get as many of them as possible. Of course, all the countries of the former East do not do so, neither Poland, nor the Czech Republic, nor Hungary, nor Romania, nor Bulgaria. But everyone in a row says, "No, help them where the problem is, means in Turkey, Syria or anywhere, not invite them here." That's a fundamental difference. And now, luckily, I'm going to EPP at least, me who advocates this kind of policy, because at the same time, I say that our country doesn't, because it has an ultra-left government and that's why the situation is the way it is. And then our Prime Minister goes to Brussels and Juncker, because we know what, I'm not going to say, because it's a little awkward to say it, and he's suffering on the shoulder, and he says how good Slovenia is because he respects quotas. I don't know. The Prime Minister is bragging about it. Yeah, that's bullshit. That's not even true. I don't know how many of them you've brought, Minister, to Slovenia, a thousand of them from quotas, something over I think it was. Look, there's only 15% left here, and everyone else has moved on. That's what I told the Germans last time in Brussels, they looked at me a little fat, but that's true. Now a little bit about the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Koppermeyer read this real brick this time. Congratulations to the writers you wrote him. Yes, no, ma'am. He didn't change it. He usually replaces it and reads another brick that is not on the agenda, and this time he reads the right one. But look, he's talking about how we cause impatience. Yes, my dear soul, go down to your constituents where you've been elected, and tell them why you're defending what you're defending. He refers to the Pope. I've never seen him at a mass for my country. That means he doesn't respect her, most likely, or what I know. It's like I'm making excuses for Che Guevara. I can't because his views aren't close to me. And he draws the Pope into this debate. Let him say what and how the Group's views are. When we had nicobs and burkas, he was against it, but he said it wasn't in Austria. In Austria it is now, 150 euros is a penalty. And of course, the large party's parliamentary group, even these large SMC parties, does not talk much longer, as it seems, about international standards, international rules in this area. Yeah, damn it, who else respects international rules? Not even Germany and Merkel, because she said, "Welcome. Welcome." Yes, because Germany does not even respect this, and you are citing respect for international standards. Yeah, it's no wonder we're where we are. In short, if I finish. We suggest that those asylum seekers who commit a crime be shown a door rather than an asylum home because a Slovenian citizen goes to jail for breaking and entering while an asylum seeker goes to an asylum. We propose a change – to go to prison and from prison to the border and to where it came from. This is what we propose, and we do not accept those who are thus expelled elsewhere. It's normal, it's natural, at least for us, and probably not for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Procedural. Here you go, Mrs. Mag. It's an ant.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u26	Yes, thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I would ask nicely, I don't know, presidents, if you've listened to my colleague Gorenak's debate, in fact, he's already stated at the outset that we Members have read the views of the members of the groups. Once again, on behalf of our Group of Members, I stress that this is the position of the Group of Members, which is why it is also read. I want to. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Please, if I may finish with the word. Also, colleague Anja Bah Žibert read your parliamentary position so that she would really ask you to protect us, Members, who are actually representing the views of the groups of Members. At the time when we are discussing, we speak on our own behalf, and many times it happens that when we are discussing from the bench, we speak on our own behalf and that this is not exactly the opinion of the Group of Members. So, please take care of this further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I think Dr. Vinko Gorenak knows that exactly, but he just said what he said. Mr. Tink Lah. Get Mrs. Eva Irgle ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Chairman. Well, I'd like to add a little bit to what he said in the end. Not in prison, because it costs money, but as soon as possible, back across the border, because it costs nothing there. We support this law in our parliamentary group because European legislation is sharper than ours, and we are at the Schengen border, which defends the European border, and we have more loose legislation as far as that is concerned. If this government or foreign minister goes to the east more than the west, then we should follow that example in the east, because we are practically a defender of the European border. We advocate that refugees, already refugees, not migrants, economic migrants, should apply for asylum in the first safe country, is not Croatia, is already Greece. That if it's refugees. But when it comes to migrants, they have nothing to do with us. I am sure that even Germany, which has accepted them, I do not know how many of these migrants will dance the pole and the waltz over the years and they will have to adapt if they do not, but they will slowly send them back to where they came from. We would have them as tourists to do what they want, to go wherever they want, to have more rights than the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. That is why we support this legislation, this law, to tighten the arrival of migrants to Slovenia, and thus to free the border between Slovenia and Croatia, and what else, because when the Austrians see that the Slovenians have such a strict regime on the border as they do, the Slovenians will open their border to us, but we must keep our order or ensure the safety of our citizens. It's the way Lefty discussed it. I will never forget Mr Hanžk when he was a member of the Left or the United Left when he said that we should allow 200,000 migrants to Slovenia. We really don't have enough soldiers, they're running away from the army, and that's all we'd be missing to arm them and take them into the army. We also see in the countries where they were accepted, that they did not come to work. Sometimes the southern brothers said, "I didn't come to work but to earn." They came here just to live well, on social welfare, on the standard that these countries have. I am sure that Slovenia will soon be a target country. For the time being, those who come across Kolpo in the cold and look for the door, there is no network across the entire border near Kolpa, in certain parts, and well know where to get through because there is no network, and where Kolpa is so shallow that it can be passed through in rubber boots. Fortunately, our citizens there are very hospitable, very friendly, even because nothing has happened yet. What about that cop who died in a migrant attack? What if that happens? Who's to blame? Of course, the government is nothing, the legislation is nothing, the authorities like the police are nothing, because we have such legislation that allows everything. This could happen. That is why I think that this law is appropriate, given that we are on the Schengen border, it is sufficient to tighten the entry of migrants into Slovenia. If there comes such a rush as it used to be, there will probably be no more of it, but there will be smaller groups, because other countries will close these crossings, and what soon they can find that country that can't or won't protect its borders as it should be, and find a transition there. They can also come from Italy to Slovenia, where these migrants are flocking, entering the European Union and travelling slowly. The Italians in the northern part are already appalled at how many of them came into this part of a more developed Europe. If they sharpen, they will go a little to the right of Slovenia, where the border is as open as it is. If we don't protect our borders, others won't. Therefore, I do not know why the Government is moving, although the Minister is very determined at certain times and has also opposed her colleagues, this is commendable, but only the Ministry can do nothing, we must, those who adopt legislation, adopt such a law, the Government and the Ministry, individually, and the authorities must implement it, as is the case with today's situation. That is why we will support this law by ourselves and the Group of Members, although I am sure it will not be adopted, as it appears that there is only one Member in the Chamber, who obviously have enough work to do with the elections, and yet we could adopt this law and do something that will necessarily be done in the next government.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go, Mrs. Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Let me start with the values that I think are extremely important for today's debate. I'm talking about justice, security and dignity. Now all those sitting in this national assembly should, of course, know that justice is the main guide of the rule of law. But what does this justice mean in this context? Justice means that in this Chamber of Democracy legislation, which is good for citizens and citizens, is said to work for the common good, in the interests of citizens and citizens and in the interests of their security. Justice in this context also means that such legislation is then respected. And of course, justice means that we are all equal before the law. Now, if we look at history a little bit, we can see that Aristotle has already said very well that the only stable society or country is the country where people are all the same before the law. And in this context, the issue of justice seems particularly important to me. The second value I would like to highlight in the context of today's debate is security. It has been mentioned many times, it is a value that is very fragile, it has to be carefully guarded and protected, it is not self-sufficient. It is right for young people to know that you must fight again and again for security. And it is right to mention here that in 1991 we were on a major test, a security test and that we had to fight for our own sovereignty, for the territory and for the country and for citizens and citizens. And in this context, security is of exceptional and crucial importance. The first task of every policy that loves its own country and loves its citizens and citizens is to protect its own people, it is said to ensure that they are safe both from internal and external threats. If I somehow rely on today's legislation, i.e. the Law on International Protection, then the following must be said. If we have individuals who have proved to be lawbreakers, they must take responsibility for this and must therefore bear the consequences. Like any citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, if punished or committed a crime, he must bear responsibility and consequences for such conduct. In this case, this means in the form of refusal or inability to apply for asylum. I would like to say in this part that this is not a discriminatory treatment or some xenophobic behavior far from it. I personally believe that Slovenians are a nation that through actions we have shown that we can be solidarity. In 1991 we provided more than 70,000 refugees with safe haven in Slovenia because they were fleeing the war to preserve their lives. But we are not talking about refugees here, we are talking about economic, illegal economic migrants. And here, of course, we need to distinguish and, of course, in this case, we need to be fair to those who are actually fleeing the war, and this needs to be helped. These should be helped, especially for women and children. What kind of people would actually be if we didn't help them. These people still need our help. In this case, we must be human, and we must also be solidarity. And most importantly, we must respect each other. However, as has already been said, something completely different is called economic migrants. If there are those among them who do not respect the legislation of the country to which they have come, then this must be said out loud. For because of various unacceptable practices they question the safety of those who live in certain countries. Let me just remind you of the actions where migrants resorted to the inviolability of human life, the human body. You'll remember this the most massively, I think it was in Düsseldorf. At that time, there was mass intervention in the inviolability of the female body. I have also asked the Minister of the Interior a number of questions. And in these cases, it was precisely those values that I mentioned at the beginning of the debate that were tested. So the value of justice in the sense that someone who came into the country illegally took into his hands the right to do something that is contrary to the law and to do something that is contrary to the values that are part of us. Secondly, in this case, the security, the security that citizens and citizens deserve when they live in a country. It is said that politics and the state is the one that must protect its own citizens, but in this case security has failed. There was no longer a sense of protection, but it is essential that we live in an environment. What I think is crucial to me, however, my colleagues have repeatedly said if individuals want to live in a Europe based on a Jewish-Christian tradition that is after II. I will say, a strong symbiosis to build peace, security and respect for fundamental values, then, of course, they must respect our rules and respect the system of values that preserve our civilization. That is why I think in today's debate, I repeat, it is important that we ensure the three when we deal with such legislation, namely justice, security and dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat. Here you go, Mr. Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the mandate, when we had, despite economic growth or still have pensioners with miserable pensions, tens of thousands of people living below the poverty line, many who are not unemployed but are working and receiving a miserable salary for their work, there was much talk in the National Assembly about illegal economic migrants coming into our country and monthly according to the Court of Auditors, costing a thousand 963 euros. In short, we have lost the opportunity in this mandate to end this, because illegal economic migrants have been supported in Levica, in Social Democrats, in Desus and in SMC. And the vote in the elections for any of these four parties, as well as the vote for any new party having a similar opinion on these matters, is the vote for the policy of the open doors of Slovenia and Europe, the vote continues for second-class Slovenians compared to the first-class migrants and is a vote for higher risk as regards the safety of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Because the people who are coming will not have a positive impact on our economy, will not have a positive impact on our finances, will threaten the foundations on which Christian Europe is based and will not help to keep Europe developing in a democratic and free spirit. If that is what you want, then you will elect the parties I mentioned earlier, or your decision, respected citizens and citizens, will be different in the elections. And I will support the law that we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because the law is nothing more than the protection of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and their security. You can say, yes, we haven't had so many cases yet, there have been so many incidents in Slovenia that we need such a sharpening, but it's not a sharpening, it's a first case, because we know what a crime is, we know what a serious crime is, and therefore I really don't understand why you're opposed to amending the 29th indent of this article. However, as far as other matters are concerned, any migrant who is an asylum seeker, even though he is a migrant, in my firm opinion, unjustifiably asks for asylum, is not justified if he commits a crime, he must be expelled immediately. And we are now talking at a time when Turkish dictator Erdogan is again blackmailing Europe for the new billions of euros, because otherwise he will open the door and send migrants to Europe. And Slovenia, as the last socialist oasis in this part of Europe – Germany, Austria, Italy, Serbia, Croatia, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland, are all countries where voters have decided that sufficient destructive policies are left-wing and have been formed or that right-centre coalitions will be formed, thank God, at least these countries will be able to protect their citizens and citizens. I hope that this bloc of countries with a right-centred government will also join Slovenia either after 27 May or after 3 June, because Europe is set on Christian foundations, on Christian values. To this point, as developed today, Europe has developed precisely because of these values and Islam, ladies and gentlemen, and not the radical Islam brought by these illegal migrants from Syria and other countries, where they do not know Islam as it was, say, and is also in Bosnia, because they are people who are also targeted and, with their radical knowledge of Islam, rape those Muslims who think otherwise. These people don't belong in Europe. The Austrians, the Hungarians long ago, the Poles, too. Now, I hope that, thank God, Germany also slowly notes with the new Minister of Home Affairs, who has made it clear how he feels about these people coming to break the order and the situation we know in Europe. Assistance is needed, but assistance is needed in countries where countries of origin are, with the same money as in Slovenia, we can help a substantial number of refugees there. And not such operations that bring migrants to Europe, Italy, must be carried out, and these problems are then imported here, but cooperation with the authorities in Libya, in other parts of North Africa, where the main point of prevention will be to leave the coasts of North Africa at all. For when these people leave these shores by boat and when ships, even from EUNaufor Sofia, they get and put them on board, then they have to take them to Europe. If they turn, they jump into the sea, they have to be saved, etc. In short, it's not a solution. The only effective solution would be to prevent them from leaving at all. And the deal with Turkey, the blackmail of Turkey with regard to migrants in exchange for billions, I read on one of the Slovenian portals this morning President Erdogan's words when he met with Tusk and Juncker, and I don't think that the day Turkey stops migrants will allow some signals from the European Union that the European Union is ready to accept Turkey as its kind. And with the day that this happens, we can really say that the European Union is over, that the project has failed, because where radical Islam comes, there is no democracy, nor freedom, nor human dignity, nor human rights can they succeed.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister with co-worker, dear colleague and colleague! I will set the stage for my debate in the debate in the European Parliament, because there were quite a few about the Dublin Regulation last year, there was a very good debate in the middle of the year in the European Parliament. If I were to conclude this debate in the European Parliament with a single sentence, this would read: "Dublin is dead, let Dublin live." It is said that the Dublin Regulation is dead, the European reform of the Dublin system or the Dublin asylum system is necessary. But we don't actually have that yet, so it's perfectly normal for countries to want to change themselves, specifically in Slovenia, the law on international protection, where we speak primarily and we need to talk about the protection of citizens and citizens. Thus, international protection is, in fact, focused primarily on the protection of citizens and citizens of this country. What, in our understanding, are the essential solutions to this law that we have foretold to support? I'll describe them in three points. Firstly, the foreigner wishing to enter the Republic of Slovenia must immediately, the competent authority shall immediately, the emphasis shall be on the purpose of submitting the application and shall at the same time state all the reasons for it and then submit the request within three days of entry into Slovenia. What is the difference with the law in force? The difference is that the law in force says that it will do so as soon as possible. So this is exactly where we define in three days. What's the problem? No problem. Because "as soon as possible", you know what it's like. You ask 90 Members, you get 90 different answers. In three days – very exact. The second solution brought about by this novel law is the following. The status of international protection or subsidiary protection shall not be recognised if there is reasonable suspicion that a person has committed a crime in Slovenia, irrespective of the crime. The crime is a crime and a dot. In this case, the status of international protection or subsidiary protection shall not be recognised. The third solution brought by this amendment to the law is inadmissible and rejected if the applicant has previously committed a crime in Slovenia and has been arrested in connection with this offence or if another Member State of the European Union has made a legal decision to expel him. What's the problem here? It's not. Not according to our estimate. All these three points actually, as we say many times, drink water. I just don't see any reason why these solutions aren't good. Given that the necessary reforms of the Dublin Regulation are not yet in place, it would certainly be easier for us to have some solutions at the level of the European Union that would be acceptable to all members, and these solutions are not. This is what we know about how these things happen when it comes to a regulation. Until then, countries want to protect themselves as they think it is best for them, optimally. These three solutions, which I have mentioned, go in the direction of protection, yes, and especially of Slovenian citizens and citizens. Again, is there something wrong here? Not according to our estimate. That is why we support these solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. My colleagues and colleagues have already told me that it is necessary once and for all to separate the status of refugees and the status of migrants. What I'm going to say today is I'm going to talk most of the time about cases involving crimes committed by those who don't have and cannot have refugee status. If they do, then something in this country is even worse. But first, let me remind you of a fairly well-known refugee case in the media, or I have to correct myself, migrant Shamieh. Why? The Ministry and then all judicial authorities have found that it is no longer eligible to reside in Slovenia and should leave the country. Everything has been regulated in accordance with legislation and also with the successful work of the Ministry of the Interior. What happened? Those who scream in the National Assembly that Slovenia must be a social state for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, that is, the Levica and the SD, brought this man to the National Assembly. They practically hid it. And now these -- by the way, otherwise there is only one representative in here -- I ask how many of these people, citizens and citizens, for example, have been hidden in the National Assembly from their jobs. They didn't. Because the rations were for change, but they were a good time, almost you know the time of SD in the government. There was little time in history when they or their predecessors would not be in the government. In short, the measure was full, of course, there was a debate here about whether the ministry was doing the right thing or not, today it is known that the Minister was defending her position, she was right. But, Minister, I'm surprised you're still accepting that you're coming as SMC minister because in a mockery of you, SMC invited this gentleman to his congress party. Now tell me, are we living in a normal country or not? Certainly not, since Mr Shamieh should no longer be in this country, but not that he is coming to the congresses of the largest political party, showing and showing, of course, how he works in this country – double criteria, one for migrants who have no basis to live in this country, while the other criteria are for our citizens and citizens who lose their homes for change, who by the way receive a prize in the value of 300 euros, because they have worked fairly in a company for 10 years and then lose their status, the rights to help a child's allowance and lose 800 euros to that account. That's what we do, for example, with our citizens. I also do not understand the position of SD. I don't know whether they're not talking to each other or playing this double game again to deceive citizens and citizens. Today they said it was unnecessary and it didn't matter whether anyone read or thought, the more important it was that their visible representative of the mayor of Velenje Municipality, SD, wrote to the distinguished President of the State, the President of the National Assembly, the President of the State Council, I don't know, the Minister, he obviously let you down, although you've been fighting all the time for some things to really do as it is to make a partial order, otherwise here shows that he let you go, no matter what, but in the letter he warns that an incredible increase in immigrants in Velenj and that the situation is becoming critical. The problem is in communications, the problem is in health homes, the problem is in the streets and so on. But the SD in this House is quite different. I would be glad that this party will take note of itself once and that it does not just play on political points, because now I do not know who is collecting them, or the party in the National Assembly or the mayor of Kontic on the ground. But something's very wrong. I said in my position earlier that I would talk about specific cases. Minister, I cannot agree with you here about the fact that of course you were talking about the Dublin Convention. I agree, but I'm still talking about migrants, the convention is talking about refugees. And now let's look at the case. It happened in Ljubljana, on Chopo Street, respected, February 3rd, February 13th, February 16th, February 17th, February 18th, thefts took place, attacks took place, and a migrant from Algeria even attacked a security guard. I call it a cold weapon, he had broken glass, and he threatened to kill himself. It's only on Chop's street. In a few days in a row. Now tell me, is this still a safe street?Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen, this has happened in the middle of the day, even when children are walking down this street. Our citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, who worked as a security guard in one of the shops, was at risk. He was helped by many others. All persons, 7 people, probably more, I have data for 7 people, were Algerian citizens. Now tell me, are they refugees? No, they can't be refugees from Algeria in Slovenia. All men were 19 years old, I don't know, well, I think I've been operating on this data for the last 30 years, too. All of this happened in broad daylight. In Germany there are already areas called no-go zone. Tell me, for me, excuse me, and for those who walk on Chopo, it will soon be this street. I don't know why they chose it, but the fact is, it's probably the way those guys find the best way to commit their crimes. But, look, this is where the attempted murder was. And I'm really asking what happened to these people. They only took them back to their asylum homes. Now, if that's true, then let's change, excuse us, and do a wild west here, and let citizens and citizens do what they want. See, I mean, some people are entitled to such acts, a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia would probably be in front of a judge, and probably already in the process, if it is guided, he would be punished accordingly. And that's right. But what messages do we give to our citizens and citizens? However, if the pensioner, by the way, was a veteran of the war for Slovenia and had a few years of working time at that time, became disabled, at such a difficult level that he could no longer perform any work and, of course, was disabled, he had 3 daughters, a family and received 200 euros. 200 euros, Your Honor. Now, if this gentleman would probably take a salami at the store, but at the front of all the media, he'd be a black chronicle. But you know, I was looking for this data, and I didn't see it in the media that there were 3, 13, 16, 17, and 18 literal places and attempted assault or murder by migrants coming from Algeria. And now, one would understand that these people are hungry to go after, I don't know, bread to the store, but no, you know, and then I'm surprised to see how these asylum homes take care of these people. A meal 3 times a day, food must be healthy, balanced and organic. That's how we take care of these migrants. Meat and other healthy products must be on the menu each day in the correct proportion. Tell me, do socially endangered families have such a menu? Can the mother provide her children from these families with a balanced diet three times a day? No, no, no. And I'm not just talking in socially disadvantaged families, I'm talking about different hospitals, they can't afford organically processed food either, but these people are being taken care of. Now tell me. The man who gets all this, much more than our own citizens, then threatens public order and peace and the lives of our citizens. So tell me, what convention allows such matters to be tolerated and not sanctioned in accordance with the laws of their own country? When it comes to the issue of migrants, my dear, I am not talking about refugees. I still say that those who are actually refugees see, 70 000 of them came when the war in Yugoslavia was in the Balkans. [[…]] There was no problem, they were all accepted, no one was dealing with these issues because we knew where they were coming from and running. But these people are running away because of other things. These people are close to crime, these people are close to violence. These aren't people looking for shelter. For he that seeketh refuge is grateful, and in the first place is likely to offer aid to the land according to his ability, but not to do such things. And that's gonna be more and more. And we have a case in Cyprus, and we have a case in Illyrian Bistrica. But I wonder how many more of these cases we don't know about, because I haven't found data from the public media for these, even though we know that every little thing is actually in the black chronicle, whether it's necessary or not. In short, the fact is that such a person has nothing to do in this country, because he is threatening this country. Secondly, it is not justified to stay in this country because it no longer comes from an endangered environment and has not entered this country as the first possible country. And this is where we are talking about amending the legislation to act in accordance with the legal order of the State of Slovenia. For such persons, the procedure for expulsion from the country must be immediately initiated at the final stage. Everyone would have known that. Look, these people are spreading their information on their own routes. They say there's a paradise in Slovenia, you go to the store, you steal a little bit, if they weigh too much, you show cold weapons, and then you go back to the asylum home, where you get a decent dinner. This is what we are talking about in the proposed amendment of the law, and this is what we are talking about. We are also talking about reducing irregularities in other areas. Why? In Slovenia we have quite a number of temporary residents in this country. Look, we hear that they're temporarily staying, they're getting child support, but they're not actually staying here, but they're going back to their homeland, but, of course, these amounts are getting, this money is getting. Second, 20 come to one medical card because it is not possible to see the complete identity of an individual. These are the warnings that are coming. I have also asked the question of the Member of Parliament, and I hope to have concrete answers as soon as possible. But when it is seen that in this country there is order for all and that there are no first- and second-class not citizens, but that others have priority over their own citizens, then such things will be limited, because they will know that they will not be rewarded but will be sent back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please, Mr. Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u38	Dear Vice-President, I would like you to remind colleague Anjo Bah Žibert that she does not deceive the public in addition to everything else, that she has also said that the Party of the Modern Centre of this Mr Shamieh has invited her to its congress. Of course it's not true, it's a complete lie. I am even convinced that this is behind one of the opposition parties, that he appeared at the convention itself. Please, if certain things are already being cited here today, of course everything is unconvincing that as many debaters are trying to hold to the truth and avoid some deceptions of people as we have witnessed, and that, in my warning, the colleague apologizes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u39	Mrs. Anja Bah Gibert has heard your comments. Here you go, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u40	Thank you very much, President, for giving me a chance. In my implementation, I said that Mr Shamieh was the largest political party at the congress. How he got there, look, that's not what I'm gonna do. He was there. If I had been deported in time, I'm sure we couldn't have seen him there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a general part of the general debate. The representative of the Government, Mrs Mag, has the floor. Ms Vesna Györkös Žnidar, Minister of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the introductory part, I will first answer Mrs Novak, on her questions, which relate mainly to the state of illegal migration in Slovenia. In 2016 we recorded a thousand 148 illegal border crossings. In 2017, a thousand 930 illegal border crossings. This data actually confirms that we are recording a stable trend towards increasing illegal migration, which we have already pointed out when the Western Balkan route is closed. A few years ago, when we also pointed out that this would result in an increase in classical illegal migration, of course with all the security issues that stem from this, given that these are no longer regulated migration flows, but classical illegal migration. Work after illegal migration is a permanent task of the Slovenian police, i.e. tightened control at the external Schengen border, at border crossings or also at the green border. However, there is a particular emphasis on breaking down illegal criminal groups that are also active in this connection, and our police are also very successful, which needs to be highlighted in particular. Plans are also being drawn up to manage possible increased or mass migrations. As far as international protection is concerned, I can say here, given that this has also been exposed today, in 2016 there were a thousand 308 applications for international protection, 621 proceedings were put in place, 170 positive decisions and 96 negative decisions, and in 2017 a thousand 476 requests, 949 proceedings closed, 152 positive, 527 cases and 89 negative decisions. In its implementation, honourable Member Novakov also referred to provisions of the Aliens Act concerning the integration of family members. True, our Slovenian law has a provision that allows family members to be united, i.e. a decision that is broader than what is called a nuclear family, a mother, a father and children. However, I must also remind you that this provision is due to the decision of the Constitutional Court in the case of a Somali girl, and we also know what the position of the party to which Mrs Novak belongs was then, so I think that it was necessary to reiterate or underline this somehow. With regard to quotas, as Member Gorenak was talking about. We know that quotas are one mechanism within the European Union that actually means an expression of solidarity between the Member States of the European Union and that when it comes to essentially European or our responsibility, it is clear that those countries at the external borders of the European Union are not, but at the external borders of the European Union, the fight is burdened by the arrival of migrants. If we burden them in a way that takes in our territory in this context people who are in need of protection, those who are in security and those who belong in so-called vulnerable categories, such as minors, are certainly a controlled process that prevents them from crossing our territory or the territory of other countries. With regard to the numbers, this was also of interest to the honourable Member of Gorenak. The Slovenian quota for the acquisition of persons in need of protection was 567; by the end of February 2018, 253 persons had been transferred to Slovenia, representing 44% of the quota and we have 209 additional persons. As all legal bases have passed, these transfers from Italy and Greece have been completed. This will also be a challenge in the future, even in view of everything that is going on at the level of the European Union. I believe that the relocation of massive uncontrolled arrivals into the European Union is not a solution; it can only be part of a solution, but it cannot be a definitive solution to the problem. At any rate, entry into the European Union should depend on the reason for leaving the country of origin, and this will also have to be done at the level of the European Union in the future. Member Grims mentioned asylum shopping or secondary migration. We have already said this many times in past discussions that asylum shopping is not a desirable concept if the European Union wants a sustainable system; in the fact that migration will continue in the future. If we look at the existing bases, this asylum shopping does not qualify either as a crime or as an offence; but the European Union has one legislative mechanism, this is the Dublin Regulation, which we have also talked about a lot, which lays down procedures in cases of such transition from one country to another; and it does not provide for sanctions for such acts. If I continue where we have already been in the debate today, the importance of the Dublin Regulation has also been demonstrated in a recent media case in which the Luxembourg court has also issued an extremely important judgment, particularly for Slovenia, which is a transit state. It said that the Dublin Regulation should also apply in the event of massive migratory pressure, and in this case it was also expressed in some way that the Republic of Croatia was responsible for handling the application. This is an extremely important judgment because it is only then that all the basic concepts on which the European Union is based, namely, a single area of freedom, security, rights, will endure. The Schengen area is vital for Slovenia because it is our strategic interest and also our management of the external borders of the European Union. The fact is that migration is and will be a challenge to the stability of the European Union as well as to its future. I also believe that migration flows need to be stopped at the external borders of the European Union, so that, in the context of the Geneva Convention, they remain open to those who are forced by legitimate circumstances to seek international protection. I have also said several times in the past that I do not agree with the fact that migration pressure on the whole of the European Union should be resolved in Slovenia, surrounded by the very safe Member States of the European Union, as we do not protect the external borders of the European Union. Slovenia must also have tools to manage massive illegal immigration. In this context, the Aliens Act is also relevant, and we know it is before the Constitutional Court. If possible, I can also refer to the security dimension that was also exposed today. The uncontrolled influx into the European Union in the fact that no Member State alone can manage it causes this issue to be considered a major security issue. If the mechanisms of the European Union are abandoned, each State shall have the legitimate right to resort to national measures. As we say, they are migration and will also be a challenge for future periods. The challenge will also be the result of certain failed policies of the European Union, which are already in the territory of some of the most economically powerful countries, some 10,000 coming from third countries; those countries that have not recognised their status have no rights and cannot return them. This will require the European Union to work very intensively in the coming periods, and therefore Slovenia also believes that migration must be resolved at the external borders of the European Union. I also believe that a very clear communication strategy should be implemented, that uncontrolled flows are not possible, of course if Europe wants a system that will be sustainable in the coming periods. Let me finish. Today, it has also been repeatedly pointed out that applicants for international protection should also be punished when committing crimes. Of course, I also agree with this as Minister of the Interior, and the government agrees with this; because everyone who has committed a crime in the Republic of Slovenia and has been convicted of it has to stop the sentence imposed, including the applicant for international protection. There's absolutely no doubt here. The Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal goes further and stipulates that the person who committed the crime shall not be recognised as a fugitive. Here I can say that it is necessary to know that, under existing legislation, that regulation as we have it does not mean that it will not be punished as it would be for anyone else who commits such a crime.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u44	The right to security is a fundamental right. This is the right that we, as politicians, have to guarantee to every citizen, every citizen. No foreigner's right may be over this right. This was the guide we had when we proposed the law that is before you today. A law allowing easier, substantially faster expulsion of asylum-seekers or illegal migrants who commit a crime in or against the territory of the Republic of Slovenia by expelling them from other countries of the European Union. This would avoid the danger that the Minister has now said that Slovenia would receive a very large share from those groups that are also willing to be rescued by other European countries, more developed and targeted for asylum seekers, which would pose a lasting and obvious threat to them, especially to the lives and health of people and their property. The law before you is a timely proposal to protect the life, safety, health and property of Slovenian citizens and citizens. I argue that this is a fundamental guide that should always be present when we address this issue. This issue, ladies and gentlemen, which you are always trying to avoid, is crucial for the development of the European Union. With full responsibility, I say that at this time there is no process that will in the long term endanger not only national countries, including Slovenia, not only the security of citizens and citizens, but even the entire European civilisation, such as the influx of migrants from radical Islam. This Europe is changing completely. This is something that is completely incompatible with Europe's value system, incompatible with civilization, as we understand it, and as we consider to be self-evident, is incompatible with the values that we believe to be right, is incompatible with European and Slovenian culture, that right, with our tradition. Today, all countries around the world are engaged in maintaining their tradition. Some city has already lost this, a lot of countries, I'm afraid, in the West of Europe it's already lost it. Slovenia can preserve all of this; it only needs to start now and immediately. Who's actually coming to Europe? A lot of demagogies were involved — poor refugees are coming, let's help them. Refugees, ladies and gentlemen, he's not here. According to international acts, you are a fugitive in the first safe country or even in the safe part of the same country. When you go from there, it's your choice, but you're not a fugitive anymore. If this original importance of international acts were to be observed by all European countries, none of what we are talking about would ever have happened. Unfortunately, on the contrary, some have taken the right and have suspended, cancelled, repealed one part of current law, the rule of law in the broadest sense, Slovenia and the whole European Union. The legal order is dead. Who's here for this? Are there vulnerable groups — women, children, refugees? Healthy men came in to fight capable and trained, proven, male, aged 18 to 30, except for up to 40 years; elderly, women and children are practically not, minimal. In the largest groups where they were most represented, they may have been up to a quarter where there was more; but that was all. Here come the young, healthy men. And that's what people here sell as refugees. What refugees some, this is an organized invasion of radical Islam into Europe, this is exactly what Erdogan was talking about years ago when I was there when he said, "We don't want to become part of Europe, we will submit to Europe." And that's when everyone but me clapped. I asked you what you were clapping for. And they said he was joking. No kidding. That's exactly what's going on. No one has radicalized Islam as much as Erdogan has. Today, since that pro-European legacy of Atatürk, Turkey is closer to one Sharia than to the European Union. It is important to be aware of this and also to make it clear that such a Turkey does not have anything to look for in Europe, just as all radical Islam has nothing to look for in Europe. This is a fundamental developmental issue that decides everything, it must be realized that the security issue we are talking about is not just a physical security issue, it is also a fundamental development issue that is already going on. And believe that it will be even more so that capital goes where entrepreneurs feel safe, where no one threatens their businesses; and this process will become ever stronger. For this reason, it is necessary to take timely steps that we can not only be able to do, but we are obliged to do to protect Slovenian citizens and citizens in order to avoid all the security consequences that are possible, unfortunately not only possible; but are already tragically proven in the vast majority of European countries. In Slovenia too, there was already a murder of a police officer and it was said that this was not a migrant. He was a migrant, but he didn't come illegally to Germany before that. He came a few years earlier legally. When we talk about this issue in Slovenia, this issue will need to be made very clear sooner or later, because it is not only the issue of illegal migration that we are talking about. As we are now dealing with problems in neighbouring countries, because of the changed situation in neighbouring countries, it is also a matter of legal migration, where they come mainly from the former Yugoslavia and which some here - as far as I hear - still want to give some special status. But there's mountains of irregularity happening, I've talked to some police officers, they've warned me how to falsify documents, how to make fake weddings, and so on. This is also a migration issue that we will have to face very seriously and responsibly. It is important to be aware that if you are reading the Slovenian Constitution, Slovenia is designed to be a country of the Slovenian people; the Slovenian nation is an inseparable constitutional part of Slovenia and therefore we must create a situation where people will feel safe to stay here to stop this exodus, when even after 10,000 young entrepreneurs, the most capable, educated entrepreneurs, go abroad. Then Tanja Fajon of the Social Democrats is hardening that we need 10,000 new migrants every year. Thank you very much for such policies, ladies and gentlemen, and for those of you who belong to them. We need to be very clear here. We must realise that every child born to a Slovenian citizen is a Slovenian citizen. And every Slovenian child is also an investment for the future and that this is what needs to be built on; not importing migrants – legally or illegally – and then facing the consequences that we are talking about today. That's a fundamental problem. At this point, it must be realized that things have changed around here, in the immediate vicinity; and not elsewhere. On the one hand, they have now become operational right governments and are predicting exile within a very short period of time. In Italy, as many as 600,000 illegal migrants, in Austria, 50,000, in Germany, some 10,000. There is talk of the re-immigration of a significantly higher number of people. These people, of course, won't wait. They're young, capable, trying to go somewhere to stay here. They won't wait for it to go back. For this reason, Slovenia must take measures in time to protect the safety of its citizens and citizens in order to protect Slovenia and the Slovenians. This is what we must do, ladies and gentlemen. That is the essence of the content of the proposal that is before you. Maybe someone doesn't like a word, because it's possible to arrange it with amendments. Unresponsibly, extremely irresponsible to human security, this has now been rejected because the consequences, if they come to them, will be irreparable. Each procedure, once triggered, runs by a law that is more favourable. If we are to protect people, we need to take stronger solutions in advance; not later, when the flood occurs, when the water runs into our throats, it is too late. This is the legal order, unless someone intends to go ahead and violate the law himself. I'm personally in favour of the law being respected, but it must be respected as a whole. It is absolutely insurmountable what Europe is doing – and has been doing for some time – to suspend, cancel, without anyone actually deciding; it does not implement one part of the legal order. Neither is the Slovenian government, and that is why the consequences are now here and now. That'll keep us warm for a very long time. Therefore, at least one fundamental objective must be addressed further. Every citizen, every citizen, every Slovenian, every Slovenian, every Slovenian child, every woman has the right to live safely. No foreigner's right over the right of Slovenes and Slovenians to live safely.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u45	Thank you very much. You've got your word. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timetable, decide today on the end of the 27th item of the agenda. I'm putting an end to the 19th item of the agenda. We're moving to 22. At the end of the day, that's the first defensively proposed bill on the return of property damage from World War II. The draft law was tabled by a group of 35 Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Milan Brglez. With regard to this bill, a group of 18 Members and Members with the first-signed Dr Milan Brglez requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Milan Brglez, for further explanation of the length of the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u46	Dear colleagues, colleagues, citizens and citizens! The call of all peoples and peoples is to abound with shocking historical experiences, whether it be the experience of war horrors, the oppression of freedom, or the beating of dignity. Violence, destruction, and humanization, which have created these historical experiences, leave serious consequences and serious injustices — from the loss of the immediate, psychological, and physical traumas, to the loss of material conditions for normal life. Once history has done its work, the state steps on the stage to correct the injustices, to ensure the well-being and dignity of those who have lost all. This is, in my view, the most fundamental moral duty and responsibility of a modern democratic state. The law before you calls for this to be the moral responsibility of Slovenia to finally and definitively, though symbolically, carry out its duty in relation to the victims of war violence who lost everything during the Second World War murder. While Slovenia has faced such experiences in three periods of modern history that marked our essence — World War II; the injustices caused by our former common country; and the aggression against the independent Republic of Slovenia. In fact, the independent Republic of Slovenia has corrected the injustices of material and intangible victims in all these three historical periods, and I think it is right; but we must correct the injustices for everyone, otherwise we create new ones. Today, more than 70 years ago, such injustices have affected those victims of war violence whose families suffered severe property damage during World War II. The list of this was made relatively well in 1945. On this basis, we can say that, after the war, the worst were those who felt the most brutal policy of the occupier who had been exiled, exiled, interned, forced refugees and sent to camps and forced labour. Their assets were confiscated, damaged or destroyed. The occupier took their roots out of the Slovenian land; when they returned, if at all, they were awaited by suspicious authority, broken homes and burned fields. At the property damage of the victims of World War II, Yugoslavia has forgotten, has not completely closed these chapters. In other words, she received compensation from former aggressors, with the exception of Germany, but did not see any real victims of material destruction. Regrettably, in order to remedy the injustices of these victims of war violence, Slovenia itself had little to listen to and the issue of restitution of property damage remained open. Also, the debt from this address to Germany has never been written off, but what more internally than to find out, we have not moved. With the War Victims Act, Slovenia promised in 1995 to recover war damage under a special law, which it had never seen before in the light of the world. However, following the intervention of the Constitutional Court, the National Assembly adopted a special compensation law in 2001 but also for victims of war violence; however, property damage and the correction of their wrongs were absent. In 2008, the first draft of the bill before you today was drafted at the wrong time; and it demanded much too much. And then the politics of these injustices has forgotten for a decade. We are convinced that the history of oblivion and broken promises must end today. The law before you is therefore expanding the field of constitutionally guaranteed special protection of victims of war violence as set out in Article 50 of our Constitution, but it will allow three key issues: for the first time, the establishment of an urgent legal basis for the payment of symbolic compensation for the resulting property damage. This is necessary because, of course, Slovenia cannot be directly liable for this damage; it has a moral duty and responsibility to ensure that, as a modern social and democratic state, the correction of the injustices of victims of war violence is carried out consistently. Second, the symbolic correction of injustices and the restoration of dignity to the last survivors of war violence, whose injustices remain completely unaddressed for more than seven decades; and thirdly, the fulfillment of the many pre-election commitments of political parties that have been given so far when they have been actively addressing these victims. Today, all political parties have the opportunity to turn these promises into reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Igor Zorčič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u48	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Colleagues, colleagues! During World War II, Slovenia suffered a great loss — human, moral, and material. During the war, some villages were completely burned down, cities were destroyed, and few people survived direct wars of horrors in the same way that they were expelled from their homes, especially in the eastern part of Slovenia. After the independence of Slovenia, these exiles received some personal compensation, but the issue of compensation for material damage remained fully open. The former Yugoslav diplomacy from Germany, which did not adhere to internationally agreed obligations for the payment of war damage, was unable to recover military debt; unfortunately, even in Slovenia alone, the issue of the reimbursement of war damage was not met with epilogue. Although the political function holders acknowledged that the issue of reparation remained open, a more decisive step, unfortunately, was not taken. The driving force in the resolution of the status and claims of the injured is the Society of exiles of Slovenia, which, in the desire to recover the property damage caused to the Slovenians during World War II, has been appealing to the Slovenian political summit for many years; but unfortunately, to date without success. In October 2008, the final text of the proposal for a law to provide for the recovery of property damage was harmonised; it was then felt that the resolution of this issue would finally move from a dead end. However, since the entire coalition did not back the bill at the time, this was the reason why the government of that time did not give it to the National Assembly. Elections followed, and since 2009, the problem has stagnated. Members of the Modern Centre Party Group, with their first-signed colleague, Dr. Milan Brglez, submitted a proposal for a law in late February addressing the issue of the reimbursement of property damage from World War II. Even though it is only a symbolic amount of compensation, it seems good that this injustice from the history of our country is finally eliminated, especially since the return of Slovenian exiles and refugees to their homes from German camps and from elsewhere more than 70 years have passed. At the same time, we are fully in line with the Act on Victims of War Violence, which has been adopted for 23 years. We are pleased that the proposal for a law that closes matters of compensation for material damage is finally in the legislative process. It is not only the applicants but also the victims of war violence, who are entitled to compensation for material damage, that we hope that the proposal for a law, regardless of the current events, will be adopted in this mandate. Otherwise, we certainly expect broader political support from the next call by the National Assembly and the next government, that the process of resolving this big issue will continue and that the bill will be adopted in due course. It is clear that Slovenian exiles will not waive their legitimate requirements in this regard, and so is the case. It's a civil question, it's not an ideological question, it's a question of justice. We therefore also call on all other parliamentary groups to support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u50	Your Honor! We have before us the proposal for a law on the recovery of property damage from World War II, which has been tabled by Members of the Modern Centre Party in the legislative process. The aim of the law is to lay down the legal basis for the recovery of war damage caused during World War II in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia in a way that, irrespective of the actual amount of damage, a lump sum of EUR 6 000 would be applied to the injured person or his heir. Thus, the total cost of reimbursement of property damage, according to the proposaler, would amount to €180 million. Reimbursement of property damage caused during World War II is a question that has been open for many years and for which adequate solutions have been sought for many years. However, the introduction of the bill just before the expiry of the term of office cannot be anything more than the opening of ideological topics for the daily political needs just before the elections for the reasons set out below. If the aim of the Modern Centre Party were to be honest, such a law could be passed at any time in the last four years and provided with adequate financial resources for it. According to the proposal of the law, each beneficiary or heir will be reimbursed up to EUR 6 000 as defined in the 1945 regulations; as if the Republic of Slovenia did not have its own Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the definition of what property damage is. It is the damage caused by the occupying forces and their co-workers and even the national liberation army in connection with the war. Such flat-rate property damage will only be reimbursed to those who have reported damage in accordance with the 1945 regulations created and issued by the then totalitarian communist authorities. Such a proposal for a property damage recovery law is, in our view, unconstitutional for at least two reasons. The first reason is that it is not possible for all victims to set a lump sum of EUR 6 000, since most of the victims have suffered significantly greater damage; in any case, the situation of the injured is different and should also be treated differently. Another reason is that there is obvious discrimination between those who have suffered material damage to the war and those who have suffered property damage in connection with the violent revolution. In addition, the property damage report was limited to those who, in the then communist authorities, reported property damage during World War II in accordance with the 1945 regulations. It is only logical that those who have been harmed by revolutionaries or other armed units of the Communist Party have not been able to report the damage or have been intimidated or denied it. The list of revolutionary property damage that was not caused by the struggle with the occupying power was not even permitted in 1945. Such exclusionary criteria for the compensation procedure constitute additional discrimination and are contrary to the constitutional principles that equal situations should be treated equally and different situations. However, we will not oppose the draft law at first reading in the parliamentary group; however, we will continue to table amendments to eliminate this unfair and discriminatory treatment for ideological reasons, with a view to generating political points before the elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Peter Wilphan will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u52	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The Pico on and in the flood of sent-off laws, which have more or less likely fallen into the legislative procedure just before the end of this mandate, certainly presents the proposal for a law on the recovery of property damage from World War II. The introduction of this bill surprised us somewhat in Desus, because there was no speech in this mandate in this government on this issue. This issue, even though we are aware of the openness of this issue in the Desus Group, is not included in the coalition agreement. The coalition partners are committed that we will not open up to those who are ideologically colored. However, we will probably not be able to avoid this when we consider this proposal. However, in our parliamentary group, on such occasions we do not like to put ourselves in the role of a judge and we are in great pain when historical issues arise; we are always listening to such and different stories and statements of facts that occurred 60, 70 or 80 years ago. We were also further surprised by the fact that, from all the answers to the questions raised so far, and the initiatives of fellow Members on this subject in this mandate – namely, the responses of individual ministers, the Government as a whole and also the President of the Government himself – followed relatively negative positions. Dr. Brglez says that this law restores dignity and symbolically corrects injustice to those who have been taken away from them by the invader. If we stop at that first. Yes, even in the Desus Group, we agree that the people who lost everything in the war deserve the full respect and correction of the injustice experienced by the invader. However, we fear in our group that the issue of injustice could be further deepened by this law. Given the definition of beneficiaries following the proposal for a law, we are rapidly coming to new injustices. In view of the number of families or descendants who are also beneficiaries of compensation, the proposed solutions can lead to families from the same village being left behind after so many and so many war years precisely because of this law, because some will receive a cumulatively higher amount than others, becoming ugly to watch, even though they may have forgotten by now who burned their homes down a long time ago. The next issue, which may further fuel the injustices, is the uniformity of the compensation provided for by this proposal of the law, irrespective of the form and level of the damage caused. If only horses were taken away from someone and their homes and economic buildings were destroyed to others, can a single compensation be sufficient for justice?Oh, my God! In this regard, too, huge differences between families may arise, depending on how and for how much they were materially disadvantaged during the war. Even if we consider all of this, and if we get the assurance of each individual affected that he agrees with the symbolic compensation, and if a truly Slovenian society can thus definitively close this, for all of us very important, chapter of Slovenian history, the issue of the resources from which the recognised compensation will be drawn remains an open question. Since the financial resources according to the drafter’s record - the proposal is worth €180 million, which we can honestly doubt in the Desus Group, because the rapid conversion shows a strong figure of over 200 million - it is necessary to take somewhere, it is more or less clear that the remaining state assets, as much as they are still in stock, and the state budget or taxpayers, will be affected. In the biggest political party, the Modern Center Party, you have no reservations about this. We would generously give money and sell a large portion of silver for something that, as I have already said, could cause new conflicts between people. For a demographic fund that would once be able to save pensions through good governance of state property, there was no listening on your part. Of course, we have not forgotten the constant perceptions, which, when the budget is being prepared and there is a need to talk about the coordination of pensions, also come from your side if Desus is again blackmailing with pensions. Keep going. Under some strange pretext, why have you blocked our law that corrects the wrongs of the pensioners, that is, more than 615 thousand people who, due to the freezing of their pensions during the recent economic crisis, have also suffered permanent damage so that they will not be able to accept it in this mandate? Let me get back to the relationship this government has had with you at the helm to the issue of war compensation for the damage caused by World War II. All the responses given to this government, to individual ministers and to the Prime Minister himself, are quite contradictory to what you have done, Dr. Brglez and the other members of the Modern Centre Party, by introducing this bill. The brief views of all of these are summarized in the following. Firstly, it is not possible to provide financial resources from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposer, however, commits and transfers the burden of implementing the law and thereby the financial effects of the law adopted by the current Members to the next reference by the Government and Members. Secondly, Germany firmly believes that the damage has been paid in full and that this chapter has been completed for it; Slovenia has always tried to establish a dialogue on this topic. It is clear from the media that the President of the National Assembly himself has already spoken to the German ambassador on this subject, and we are not aware of which side the weighr has turned. Thirdly, it is not good to march to Germany, since it is the first important economic partner of Slovenia; nor is it because reopening this issue would pose an additional risk for Germany and also encourage countries to open such discussions to Germany. Fourthly, the European Union is currently dealing with brexit, and as a result, political talks are being held on the future fate of the European Union; Germany is in particular one of the main drivers of these talks. The content of marriage raises many questions. That's clear. It is true that the content can be modified in the course of the legislative procedure, but it is not so simple matter. If it was not appropriate and dignified and, above all, fair to save in all those 73 years since the war ended, you must not resent us if we are concerned in Desus, or, in particular, now, just before the elections, we can resolve it properly with a handball move. Members and Members of Desus do not reject the possibility of adding, in addition to the already established package of so-called war laws, which, according to their strong social content, represent a recovery of non-profit damage, the possibility of payment of property damage. The government in another composition, whose partner we were, had once prepared and approved a similar law, but even then the timing of the adoption of the law would coincide with the pre-election time. At that time, however, reason and desire for a broader political consensus prevailed. The political will to deal with this issue is, therefore, always exists and is even wider today than only within those who represent the political coalition, as much as we can talk about it at this time. However, it seems to us that if we adopt a law five minutes before the elections, which we have not been able to pass in 70 years before, and in doing so we create new injustices, which we would certainly have to do in the coming years, it is irresponsible and disrespectful of those who have allowed the Slovenian people to live under the free sun. Whether we will accompany this law in Desus today for further consideration depends on what the proposer will tell us. Nor is the Government's opinion irrelevant, and I hope that we will be able to hear it today because we have not received it in writing. We would also like to hear the opinions of other parties, because we are convinced that this chapter of our history can only be closed by political consensus of the vast majority of the people. For we do not want to bring to life solutions that are the product of just one of civil associations, but that do not bring just satisfaction to all stakeholders.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u54	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. We have before us a topic that has long been open to a group of people affected by World War II. We're talking about war casualties who are still waiting for this chapter of history to close. Although attempts to regulate this matter on a legislative level have long had a beard, they will still have a moment and way of dealing with it and an attempt to close this difficult topic. It is very important that none of those we support today have a fig in their pocket. Very important. If, in the past, an attempt to adopt legislation addressing this subject has been accompanied by at least some public debates, controversy and at least a minimal effort to harmonise matter to the extent that it will receive wider support in the legislative process, we are now witnessing that the President of the National Assembly himself has concentrated the whole process in too short a time frame that does not allow the legislative process to be concluded without bringing it over the legislative cycle without putting it through extraordinary meetings. This material needs some consensus, however, because it has a significant financial impact on public finances. Social Democrats do not oppose the regulation of this area; on the contrary, we are seriously concerned about this kind of decision-making. It's people's fates. But we are also talking, which is less important, about the 200 million we do not have in the next two years. We all know that this law will enter into force, if adopted, in two years. We are talking about a lump sum that we also do not know about whether it is righteous and whether it will also satisfy at a symbolic level all the needs of the people who have suffered. We believe that there are open questions and dilemmas that I doubt that we can get the right solution in this short period of time to elections when feelings are overheated. I wonder which of these attempts in the political situation just before the elections will somehow be won. Since 2005, I have been alerting myself to the problem of material damage caused by World War II. In the oral question I raised with the then Justice Minister, I asked when we could expect concrete legislative proposals to resolve this issue. I repeated the same problem in 2007 and, therefore, the possible observation of someone whose political and historical memory began nine years later when they first stepped on the political floor, ladies and gentlemen, did not drink water. In its assessment of the situation, the applicants state that the German occupying party has unlawfully and criminally seized property or part of the property or destroyed property or part of it to the people and legal persons in that territory. The occupier also committed violence against the people who remained in occupied territory, or legal persons who were not disbanded, in the way that he used their assets for war purposes and handed them over for use or ownership to other individuals; and in the fight against the national liberation forces and the partisan committees of Slovenia, he carried out repressions, including destruction, decommissioning, various other confiscations or ordinary thefts of property. A similar illegal and criminal act was also committed by an Italian occupationist. The estimate of total property damage caused to the private is 23 billion dinars. The proposal states that the victims of World War II are in a similar situation as the beneficiaries of denationalisation and therefore the present value of the property damage makes sense to assess on the basis of the criteria applicable to the valuation of the value of assets in the denationalisation processes. The estimated current value of private property war damage amounts to around €1.7 billion. The former Yugoslavia received from the aggressor countries a part of the war damage, in the form of reparations, in essence grants; and indirectly in the form of more favourable loans. The victims of this title were not compensated for the property damage caused during World War II. Who's gonna pay for this now? The biggest problem if you want to be accompanied by a confirmation of this or similar proposals from the past is how to reach an agreement on a resource that will provide compensation. This is also the reason why the closure of this issue, ladies and gentlemen, has been delayed for so many years. Who's gonna just pay for this damage? It must be made clear that this damage will be paid by our taxpayers or perhaps by others. The applicants also offer an answer, paying Slovenian citizens and citizens. With this in our parliamentary group, we have no problem if such a proposal had the unanimous support of all political parties, but I know it will not, but we will remain on this side, we will support such a law. If the situation were different, if the election were not so close, if some people could look in the mirror every day, they could also adopt such a position and demand a broader consensus because that is what Slovenian exiles deserve. However, for the public's sake, the Modern Centre Party has 35 Members, the President of the National Assembly is the first of the same and has every opportunity to convene an extraordinary meeting with the signatures of 23 Members. I believe the President of the National Assembly will do this. And when the President of the National Assembly does so for Slovenian exiles, we will support the Social Democrats. Of course, the President of the National Assembly felt that the recognition of Palestine was more important than the recognition and injury of our exiles. And I believe he will do it for our exiles as well. Milan, I will support this proposal because it is our people, and the Social Democrats will also support this law. But the question is tomorrow, how can anyone look in the mirror? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u55	Ms Violeta Tomić, on behalf of the Group of the Left, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, chairman. Let me start by saying that the Members of the Left will support the proposal at first reading. How could you not?Oh, my God! We, too, have been working since the beginning of this mandate to ensure that exiles, interners, refugees and their descendants receive compensation for the assets destroyed by the invaders and domestic collaborators. At the same time, I must point out that, after this proposal, the damage to the war should be paid to Slovenian citizens, not to the successors of the countries that caused the damage. We really can't land on this solution! In the second reading, we will propose that compensation be recovered from these countries. Following the calculation of the applicants, it would take €180 million to pay the beneficiaries. Since Germany had €388 billion of public expenditure ahead of the year, €180 million should not be a particular problem. But let me explain our position in more detail. Fascist Italy, Nazi Germany and their satellites invaded Yugoslavia on April 6th, without a war announcement, and joined its territory. In the April war and in the four years of national liberation wars, along with domestic collaborators, they caused untold human sacrifices and material damage. The occupying countries, in particular Germany, have never recovered the property damage caused by public and private property and one of the programme points of the Left was the recovery of war damage in the 2014 elections. Firstly, on 30 March 2015, I called on Dr Cerar to raise the issue of war compensation in talks with Germany. This was the time when the issue of German war damage was raised by Greece and Poland. Mr Cerar, President of the party, replied that our requests "would lead to a deterioration of relations between our country, the Federal Republic of Germany and some other countries, in short, with European partners". Next, on 7 July 2016, I addressed the same question to the Government. I invited her to take advantage of the crisis of the European institutions, which arose after the British decided to open up war damage issues. The government replied to me that "The Republic of Slovenia is working towards starting a dialogue with the Federal Republic of Germany in this area, but has not been successful so far". When, where and how these efforts were carried out, they did not indicate, so I suppose they were not at all. Thirdly, on 11 July 2016, I also addressed the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Klemenčič, who replied to me that "the return of war damage from Germany or Italy on the basis of reliable experiences and the opinion of our foreign ministry is not expected". Why am I saying all this? Not to expose the duality of the Modern Centre Party, which, while in power, did not want to hear anything about the recovery of war damage; they have always voted against our proposals, including Dr. Brglez. Before the elections, however, pass the law that we are considering today. This is mainly because it is unfair that the damage caused by the occupying armies and collaborators would have passed on to our citizens without at least trying to recover it from Germany. The government of Mira Cerar didn't even try to do that. In Article 19 of the proposal, you state that €180 million of compensation is to be paid from three financial sources: for the first time, on the basis of contracts with former occupying countries, in particular Germany; for the second time, through the transfer of the financial and real assets of the Republic of Slovenia to SDH; and for the third time, from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. For the first time, citizens must be clearly told what this means. Cerari's government has done nothing to recover war damage from Germany. This is confirmed by the responses of her officials to my questions. Even the first-signed Dr. Brglez sat here listening to all these answers. For example, it was very harsh against the notification of the Austrian State Treaty in order not to resent Austria. I cannot imagine Dr. Brglez demanding the payment of war damage now that our diplomats are asking Germany and other large countries to support arbitration with Croatia. Secondly, the second source is the assets of the Republic of Slovenia that would be transferred to SDH. In other words, you are proposing that some of these 180 million euros be obtained by privatising state-owned enterprises. In Levika privatisation, of course, we object categorically. The government of Mir Cerar sold out Ljubljana airport, NKBM and more companies. And I am sure that most of the victims would not want their compensation to be an excuse for privatising the companies they created. Thirdly, we are left with only the state budget to pay the compensation. And here's the problem. The government of the Modern Centre Party continues its austerity policy, and almost all social benefits are still frozen. It's saved in pensions and stuff. In addition, the government plans to reduce public expenditure and public revenue. This means that money for compensation will have to be taken from another sector. For Levico, the only reserve that could be used for compensation is the funds provided to meet NATO’s objectives for Slovenia. The government intends to spend 1.2 billion euros on the establishment of two battalion fighting groups. We're supposed to pay 280 million euros for 56 boxers. In short, the only budgetary source for compensation is the expenditure on NATO. Of course, I'd like to know where Dr. Brglez would take 180 million euros for damages. And I hope you'll explain this to me further. We will present the remaining comments in the next debate. There's nothing that can't be fixed at second reading. The underlying problem is always financial resources. In Levica, we are very well aware that refugees, internees, exiles and other victims have generally had a very difficult life. When they returned from Germany or from exile, they often found looted or completely destroyed homes. Clearly, the family that returned to a destroyed home was more difficult to get through in peace. We are also very well aware in Levika that most of the exiles, interners and their descendants live in Bizeljska, in the Hostel and in general in the countryside. Often they are poor pensioners, pensioners with or without farm pensions. Many of these are the people who were deprived of state pensions and a security allowance by the Pahor government in 2012. For them and their families, 6,000 euros would really come in handy. And if the Members of the Left were populists, for which you sometimes declare us, we would vote in favour without comment. But the Left represents the view that it is for all those who live in poverty to have decent social benefits; of course also for the victims of wars and their descendants. In doing so, it must be the main criterion of how our people live here and now, not the damage caused by the invader 75 years ago. Slovenia is fully responsible for the well-being of its inhabitants; the consequences of war are those of the successors of the countries that have caused us this damage. That is why we will support the law today, and we will continue to strive to recover compensation from Germany, not to transfer it to our citizens. The only other option that is still acceptable is that compensation, as I said before, is covered by the funds provided for weapons. Privatisation of companies is by no means an option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u57	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Dr. Milan Brglez's representative gets his word first, then everyone else. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u58	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank you for this possibility, which is common after the presentation of the position, that the applicant should give at least a few answers that have been raised or reject those worst insinuations that have been exposed. First of all, it is not an ideological topic, unless someone thinks that our constitution is ideological and that the 1995 law on victims of war violence is also ideological. Of course, it was trying to change for ideological purposes, but it could not be changed in 2005. And those who are entitled to payment are only those who have this status as a victim of war violence. Whether they have it because war has happened directly to them or because they were descendants, it is not important; it is important that they have this status as victims of war violence, and this law is the basis. This law has promised to pay compensation or damages in accordance with a specific law. For this compensation to occur, we had to wait until 2001, when it came to the Act on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence, which focused solely on non-material damage, i.e. damage or physical and mental suffering, and loss of a loved one as a basis for it. But if we're looking at the whole problem of correcting injustices, we know there are still some laws that matter. I told you before, three comparable periods. The one linked to World War II, the previous system, and our independence. What is related to the postwar period is here the Denationalisation Act is comparable in as much as it relates to property damage. As regards the period of independence, in 1991 we adopted the Law on Partial Reparation of Damage Caused by Military Aggression to the Republic of Slovenia in 1991; while this issue of material damage to all victims of war violence remained open during World War II. And as I said very clearly before, without a specific legal basis, this payment cannot possibly come at all. Slovenia is not legally responsible, but is morally responsible to close this issue as long as these victims are still alive. Let's be honest, we can wait a while longer, which most likely everyone would like to do, then this question would simply not be there anymore. Anyway, I do it with a clear conscience, if you want, I look in the mirror, when I want to sleep very well, and I will sleep as long as I do what I believe is right. This is fundamental to what I would like to say about these matters regarding the question of ideology, the basis. The second question, which has been raised a little bit by Palestine, is more important to me than this question. Until a general debate has been held and until we know what the final fate of this general debate is, even an extraordinary meeting cannot be tabled on this question. We all know that. The question of Palestine has emerged as one of the issues most likely to be definitively closed in this term, but I was not the one who would have highlighted this as the first one at this meeting. In fact, I have followed again what I have consistently said about this issue; however, these are questions at various levels of importance. They're not at all comparable, they're not comparable, they're not; and I wouldn't just try to make them equal. Nor is it comparable to discuss the answer to a question that does not lead to any solution. It leads us to have six hours of general debate on a certain subject without conclusions, and we know that. We have experienced this once in this term and it has been very unproductive. It is more productive to adopt any act than to do anything; however, it is a classic matter that, whenever a question is raised by the Member State, it is said that you are against a particular matter. No, you are not against that matter; you are against the debate on this matter, which has no final effect; but you can be for marriage, for act or for anything else. It is also totally incomparable to look at or compare with this question a decision or a justification for why you view the Austrian State Treaty in a certain way. It is irrelevant, except that all the complexity of the Austrian State Treaty must be examined. If you change your course after 25 years, this can mean something very unpleasant about your current course, which has also had international implications on the one hand, and on the other hand, you need to be aware of all the complexities of the issue of the consequences of such contracts before you try to compare the matter. The following matter which I would like to point out at the outset relates to, as was said, “recovery from Germany”. In fact, this issue has never been completely closed in relation to Germany; on the other hand, it is true that, although there were conclusions from the Government, our diplomacy has never actually tried to open it, let alone close it. But the word to recover means not only that it is open, but that we agree on the height, that we agree on many other things, and that we have the means to do so. The fact that there is also an international treaty under which, of course, in relation to a given country, and this is Germany, this matter has been helped to resolve, at least for their situation, even the very height, quite different from that to which the so-called Storm Commission has drawn up this matter. And the symbolic aspect of this is that you can never know at what time such diplomatic work could produce direct or direct fruitage. However, because a person cannot also burden, especially at the end of the budget, I agree with that, because of this symbolic limit that we have reached, I think, is justified if we try it. This is the case — whether we are going to solve the whole matter in its entirety and come to the conclusion that we cannot do this in any way in any context; or whether we are trying to resolve this issue in a reasonable, symbolic way. The damage that was done was not symbolic. But at least in a symbolic way, let us acknowledge the damage that was done at the time; especially those who for 75 years have somehow been denied the basic place they had compared to others who were also somehow victims of World War II. In particular, I mean, you know, exiles that have been a little forgotten in some way or other. The introduction of the law and its adoption may be a symbolic debt that we owe; but we will only owe it legally if this law is passed. Otherwise, there is no basis because the free field of assessment, even in the view of the Constitutional Court, is so wide that only the victim of suffering or the damage to suffering could be sufficient to meet the basic constitutional standard. It takes political will to close this matter. It is needed in those frameworks if it is ideologically possible to do so. And as I said before, if there is an ideologically controversial 1995 law, then we can all be in one; but even when it was tried to change it, in 2005 it did not change in this national assembly at that fundamental point where the matter could be regarded as such. However, if there were not all these bases and if there were not a good inter-sector work done even in your time, then some solutions, some options could not have been made in this law, because such laws always foresee cross-sectoral coordination, which, according to what has been said, could not have been achieved in this mandate. This is a fundamental explanation of why this law was introduced only now. However, he had certainly been invested long before what had happened with the government's mandate. I wouldn't compare these things that way, at least not at this point. So much was good for the starting point of the debate, and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u59	Gradually, Mrs. Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u60	I would ask you to warn Dr. Brglez that he does not abuse the role of motion for controversy when we do not yet have a replica. I'd say you can't argue with my point of view, because my statements advocate that you, however, defend a slave's attitude towards Western countries. I really cannot believe how you will demand €180 million from Germany if you do not hope to notify the Austrian State Treaty, which would actually have no consequences for Austria. However, if, in your opinion, the question you said does not lead to a solution, then I do not know what we have them for. The question of the opposition Members in particular is intended to open up this question and to hear what the government thinks about this issue; for five, six members of the opposition, as demonstrated by Dr Cerar and all your ministers, would really not make sense. Please refrain from controversy, for then we have no chance to say anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u61	Okay, I think we got along. I propose that we proceed with the debate. First of all, she gets the word, Mrs. Marinka Levičar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Well, hello to all of you who are here, even though there are few of you! I must first say that I ideologically have no problem with this bill, but it seems to me harmful because our citizens will pay this burden. About EUR 200 million is expected to cost this, so the proponents calculated; they calculated on the basis that there are now some 40,000 beneficiaries under the law on victims of war violence. This number just drops because people get older. But I'm sure there are no grandchildren involved in this number under the War Violence Victims Act. This bill is intended to also provide compensation to the grandchildren of these victims, namely, these exiles, the exiles. I understand this law in the sense that this compensation will be paid primarily to exiles, these are the people who were expelled from Posavje, the area of Krk, Brežice, that end, and also to the part of Styria. With what my colleague Violet said, it is mainly rural areas, that people are poorer there, that they live hard, I do not fully agree, because these people have moved because it is also grandchildren, because it is the children of these exiles who live all over Slovenia. And by the way, let me mention that my two children are also a grandson of exiles. And I don't see any justification for my children to get this compensation right now, really not. None of them are socially at risk, including children's keys and mother-in-laws. So much for a start, by the way. I find this law unfair because I am almost entirely convinced that this will go completely under the burden of the state budget in 2020. I don't believe we're going to negotiate with Germany and we're going to open this burning issue with Germany. The reasons for this were also stated that this would not be somehow good for Slovenia. And I'm afraid that's why this law will bring more injustices after 73 years to other categories. Also, the fact that various large families were exiled at that time. Now this number will just multiply because there are more and more grandchildren. I don't think that's right. The proposer did not say one of the key dilemmas I have in supporting this law, namely why the law did not go through the government. Why was it filed only in the last period? Why was he introduced as a law? Why is this not the law of this government, since the Party of the Modern Centre is the main party or leader of this coalition, it also has a Minister of Finance who was unable to say anything about this law as well as the President of the Government. And now that we're putting this burden on the new government, I don't know if the modern center party is going to participate in the new government, they're trying to be. And I don't know why this burden is now being passed on to the new government. Then, at the beginning of the next term, this issue should begin with a government coalition; or it should be launched substantially earlier. I don't know why this is going to happen in the last minute, in this period when it doesn't have any more government and we don't, Members; we're just going to be doing extraordinary sessions and work will be much more difficult. I really don't see why after 73 years, we're in a hurry to adopt such an important law. In particular, I see a great deal of importance – at least this is how it appears, purely realistic estimates show – that all of this will have to go from the budget. But we know what the budget should do for the benefit of all citizens. We know the health situation. I have to say, I was really appalled when I listened to a television show about the situation at the Maribor clinical centre when they didn't have the money to buy new basic diagnostic devices or all the hospital equipment; not to talk about pensions, public servants and so on. What they have already pointed out in our position of the Group of Members, which I fully agree with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u63	Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u64	Very briefly. It is precisely because of this debate before me that our exiles do not deserve to point a finger at each other, who is to blame, who is to blame less and who is more entitled to what kind of financial resources. That's not fair to our exiles, that's not fair to our people. That, Milan, was just you. Why? You know how many times we've talked about how many times we've asked questions. I speak for my exiles in my Radiators. I found out about this marriage five minutes before you went to a press conference; and that's not fair. And now, because of such insolent exiles who suffered during World War II and until the 1990s, they will earn such debates. We don't have the money for it, they don't deserve it, and so on. They're simple, I won't let that happen. It must be made clear that money can only be provided from the state budget. I'm in. From the state budget, this is the first time. I don't want to burden Slovenian companies with what you wrote down to collect money from SDH. How can we pick it up? Only in such a way that we will sell Slovenian companies. That's not what I'm for. However, I am for it to come from the state budget, aware that the state budget has at least some limitations; but if there is a law, we will have to respect it. It says here that they won't pay the tax, it says in there when they get the money, and I agree with that. That SDH will solve all administrative matters in order for SDH to deal with this – these are nonsense! SDH does not deal with and does not work with Slovenian property. Our job is to write down such a law or fix it, to tell people clearly, because there is also the president of the Eviction Society on the balcony to get the money in two years' time, but that money will be from the state budget. Let's just have a face for people, so I said we should look in the mirror. People need to be clearly told that they deserve it, that we will give it from the state budget and from the point of view. Because even if this law was passed before the elections, people will get the first part first on 1 January 2020, the second part [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u66	Since I've been in this House, I've seen a lot of things I wouldn't know and believe if I wasn't here. As I would not understand Prešeren’s verse: “I would not know how to read into poison all that is good in heart.” We've been trying and fighting for war damage in Levica since the beginning. I have also been brought to this House by the votes of the exiles, and I welcome the President of the Eviction Society, who is on the balcony. That is why we are in Levica for this topic to be addressed constructively, although I cannot avoid a feeling that is very unpleasant. Dear Dr. Brglez, I have a feeling that you would pay $180 million peacefully for your pre-election campaign, regardless of whether or not you would sell state-owned companies for it. I've got a big problem here. This law, as you have prepared it here, is unjust because it is a criminal definition. You've probably been dealing with this for a very short time. That's how it came to be. Why is it unfair? Since the law provides that expulsions and other categories of injured persons who have the status of victims of war violence do not need to be provided with evidence of war damage. That's right, of course. We know that this evidence is difficult to obtain after so many years, and we also know that the records of the war damage census, especially in the area of Krske and Brežice, disappeared in the floods of 1990. There were also the most exiles. But it seems unfair to me that this exception is not provided for interns, refugees, campers, orphaned children and other victims in a very similar situation. When they returned home, their houses were demolished, cattle, horses, and tools disappeared, they had to cut out vineyards that no one had supplied at that time. In short, why is this exception not applicable to them? What colleague Han said earlier is causing a great deal of distress among the exiles, because I am sure that none of them would want to sell the companies they created with their own work in order to correct the injustice. This war damage must be recovered from Germany. And if we humbly remain silent toward our partners, my neighbours, we will not be more statescapable. We have a tendency to self-punish. We've suffered damage ourselves, and we'll pay for it ourselves. That's not how it works. And to illustrate this plight of other victims, I will read to you some lines of the letter that I received in those days: “In the media we have observed that the President of the National Assembly is investing in the treatment of the law on the restitution of property damage to victims of World War II, especially exiles. We appeal to you with a request that it be fair earlier to repay the loss of the lives of our parents, which some victims of war violence have not received. It is the children of fallen fighters who we lost one or both parents in battle or in camps during World War II. Otherwise, years ago they granted us the status of the victim of war violence, paid us 15,000 tolars, which is 600 to 800 euros, and promised that we would receive the final payment later; then they just forgot us. After the war, children without parents suffered the most, and with their children’s hands, we contributed greatly to the restoration of their homeland. For the past six and seven years, we had to help on the farm to produce food for ourselves and for mandatory crop delivery. Our childhood was marked and destroyed with hard physical work, many of us left school, some with teacher’s permission to go to school only twice a week in the autumn and in the spring when there was much work. Even though we were excellent and talented students, we did not continue our schooling because Mother needed us to work on a home farm. Thus, our destiny was predetermined, and the continuation of schooling was possible only to the youngest of us. Our father was trapped like a fighter of 10. The Ljubljana Brigade at Podpeč in autumn 1943. He was taken to prison in Begunje, from there in April 1944 at the Mauthausen camp, Melk branch. As a coerced worker, he worked at a gun factory, where he died after half a year of fatigue and violence. He left us five children, all under nine. My father’s lack affected his oldest brother, who committed suicide at the age of seventeen. We would like to draw your attention to the differences in the extent to which children's rights are recognised as children of deceased international fighters compared to those of domestics. With great certainty, we can describe the case in our extended family when their father, a domestic worker, fled to Argentina after the war, sent material and cash aid from there, and their mother also received a pension after his death. Each of the living children received 10,000 euros in compensation in one amount. They also share monthly pensions and are exempt from payment of additional health insurance. After the death of her sister, three of her grandchildren, born around 1960, were given three thousand euros each. We are asked what children and grandchildren of patriots are worth more than we, children of a dead fighter. Why is the wrong done being corrected by doing a new, even greater? On the basis of what or what law is such a difference in the amount of compensation? On this occasion, we ask you to take your stand for our tribulation and our end of woe. So marked by the weight of years and sickness, we are getting less and less each day. With low pensions, we have to pay additional health insurance, some of which are exempt from the status of the victim of war violence. We appeal to you to regulate and equalize the scope of the rights, the amount of compensation, the exemption of payment of additional health insurance, pension and so on from the title or status of the victim of war violence.” Why did I read that? Because it is necessary to help people with the health insurance benefits mentioned above and similar things so that everyone can live the same way; and certainly not with one segment that we will now solve. Like I said, we're going to be able to make a living in Levica. Dear Mr Brglez, you have not given a solution, you have asked a lot of questions to us just before the end of your term of office. One of these questions is the following. The beneficiaries by law would be, as you wrote — the beneficiaries themselves, as well as their children and grandchildren. These victims are now very few because the war ended 73 years ago. In most cases, children or even grandchildren will be entitled. In your proposal for a law, it is not clear how much of this compensation will actually be received, so that this number is very anecdotal. Let me give you two examples, let's say we have an injured person on one side who doesn't have any living offspring or are only his grandchildren alive and will receive 6,000 euros; on the other hand, we have an injured person who is deceased and has three children. And they're supposed to get six thousand euros each, which means the family is supposed to get 18,000 euros. And if the victim had ten grandkids, the family would get ten times six thousand euros, that is 60,000 euros. However, it can also be read that one injured person receives 6,000 euros and that it is shared among the offspring. I see that you are nodding; you have not clearly defined this in this bill and it is misleading and also worrying. These things need to be considered, carefully considered, so that they do not cause additional injustices. Finally, I will say that the burden of injustice must not be passed on to other citizens of Slovenia. It is also necessary to make clear which companies you have foreseen to transfer to SDH, which companies we would sell for this purpose, because we cannot support this in any way. You would be expected to make a public commitment that the funds will be recovered from Germany; and to make a public commitment that, in the event of Slovenians paying this compensation, these funds will come from the NATO budget. In this case, you will have our full support, for we are confident that the exiles must finally experience the payment of war damage in a just and proper manner after so many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u67	He has the word as the last Mr Igor Zorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I'm sorry if I'm going to cough, I'm getting a little cold, but it didn't stop me from coming to this point and discussing a law that seems very important to me for the elimination of certain injustices caused by World War II. I am surprised at this debate today, not even from my colleagues in Levice, Desus, SD; the Slovenian Democratic Party does not surprise me so much; it was somehow predictable that some stories from World War II and compensation for property damage would be brought back to the debate on a matter that is not in itself ideological, and they would start to intertwine with matters that occurred mainly after World War II. I am surprised by this discussion of colleagues in this sense, if we support the law in some way; on the other hand, it is clear to the proposer that a whole series of new issues are being raised, that he is even doing injustice to the outcasts and the injured, that he has to ask himself whether he can look in the mirror, that it is not fair. I think that these are such harsh revelations that point to a double view of the whole matter, which, throughout our history, has also resulted in the fact that we, as we are dealing with it today, have not yet dealt with it in this national assembly, but we should have done it long ago. I think that such revelations in terms of attacks on the proposer, if you dared to be first-signed by us Members who signed this law, to introduce a law that opens up some things, some wounds, unwarranted, counterproductive, and will never lead to the resolution of this issue, which some have been waiting for their whole lives, but some have not and will never wait for it. The debate about the opening of a debate in Parliament against exiles is, of course, unfounded. I don't think the exiles have to feel left out to anyone or anyone to tell them that they've triggered this question. On the contrary, they have their right ever since they were injured, and it is those who have some moral exclamation against all others, us who have to decide when and how they will come to their right. If some of the governments of this country and our previous countries have failed to resolve this issue, this is not our fault; however, if we can, through certain measures, even through the adoption of certain laws or laws such as this, force this or the next government, or even the next government, to address this issue, then I think it is appropriate to support such a law, regardless of whether it raises certain issues. And if you think that any of the injured, expelled or beneficiaries of this law feel somehow neglected or in some worse situation than all others, even those taxpayers who are supposed to be harmed by such a law, let us mention that in our short history we have witnessed a number of damages paid from the budget, including compensations to the Roman Catholic Church, various nobles from the title of denationalisation and procedures that followed the process of denationalisation. I think that because this is not a specific practice in our country, we need to use it again and again where it is necessary to resolve certain rights. I estimate that this law is unfortunately in 2018 – unfortunately, it could be a first step earlier – to discuss this in this national assembly in some implementation phase, not as a matter of question or a question to the government; but as a question of whether a certain solution should be enshrined in the law and whether this law should be adopted. I am pleased that we have proposed this in the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Pre-election time is here, obviously, if this marriage is pre-election, but if that's the only obvious thing about marriage, then I'm not sure we know why laws are adopted. I hope that this law will go through in this mandate; but even if not, I am sure that this issue has remained open to the beginning of the next reference by Parliament and the government. And if you ask me today why we don't have an answer to the government or something like that, because we've heard some of the government's concerns about the questions that came up with the questions sent. We need to know that certain laws can be sent and decided only by Members. Regardless of the government's position, I believe that, for example, the Ministry of Finance may have a different view than the Ministry of Labour or the Ministry of Economy. In short, regardless of this, when we consider all the circumstances under which we will find out even further when we decide on this law, today we are only in the general debate, but in considering all these circumstances, we will find out whether the law can go through in one way or another. If certain questions are open, we will also answer them with appropriate amendments; however, I am disturbed by the debate in this regard, if it is all your fault now because you have proposed this law. Apparently, someone is using a sense of guilt because similar solutions have not been used alone in the past. But I am pleased, on the other hand, because this reaction shows how sensitive this topic is and how urgent it is to solve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u69	Gradually, Mrs. Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u70	I would like to tell Ambassador Zorčič that it is wrong and that it is unfair for you to throw us in the same basket as Desus, who made it clear that he would not support the bill. In Levi, we are aware that the issue of compensation for expulsions is essential. However, we have concerns and will also, in the next reading, pursue the aim of returning the war damage from Germany, without paying it ourselves to the Slovenians we have experienced. You have enough votes, you can always do what you want, so things aren't questionable whether they go through or not. But in Levica, we commit ourselves to constructively working together to make this law and to help, to offer our hand. The thoughts we have and which are legitimate in terms of the time and manner of this bill's proposal. But when we solve the problem of exiles, our work on this law will always be completely constructive and in the direction of just solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u71	We will consider your response to be a replica, Mrs Violeta Tomić, due to possible procedural obstacles. Mr. Matjaž Han, you have a procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u72	I would like to say that I have been exploited and that Mr Zorčič has taken me out of context and talked about the Social Democrats. The social democrats we have on the table today received a minute earlier in hand or not before you went to the modern centre party alone at the press conference. And unfortunately we didn't know anything about this marriage. We are absolutely in favour of this law and its direction; today we will vote absolutely in favour; and with some articles within this law we cannot agree. But it's interesting, Igor, we both know where we come from, we know what we have to defend, if we're very honest; but in some other laws you've taken more into account legal standards.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u73	It's procedural, Mr. Matjaž Han. Ma'am mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, please, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u74	Procedural proposal that the debaters stick to how they will vote on this law. I will support this law myself, even though we have specifically highlighted what is wrong with this law, which does not mean how I will vote. I will vote in favour of the law myself, but I expect the candidate of the dispute point to exclude it in the next process and reach agreement. It is a fact, and I am therefore disappointed that the applicant has thrown an apple of conflict between the parties, among the Members, and now you are arguing with each other. I really had Dr. Brglez for a man of dialogue that we were able to sit together and talk about things. And that, of course, makes me very disappointed in this law. But I think the shame that we've had here today is these different debates, sometimes I can say what, and forgive me, the ramblings that have offended many people who are not entirely to blame for the fact that such a law has come between us. I think we should express our respect for the exiled people, for all those who suffered in the war, and for their descendants. The guilt is on the proposer's side, I think so. I also ask that the debaters refrain from voting before we discuss what we will do, what an individual Member will do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate in which a representative of the proposer gets the floor. Dr. Milan Brglez, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u76	Thank you very much. In view of all the things I have heard now, I am obviously to blame for the fact that we are even discussing this subject; for if I did not do so, then this would not be the case in this mandate. That's why I apologize for the marriage. But whatever it is, I think it's right for these things to be settled. It is indeed a matter of first reading and, of course, the law can, at the Committee level and then, in further consideration, if it occurs, be corrected. The assumption for this is that it is first accepted as such. The assumption that the law should be tabled is, first of all, that it is appropriate for it to be lodged. Some formal criteria have to be met and have been devoted for the last two years. In fact, the time to get to know this issue is at least three years for my client, who is so young. During our term of office, we took note of this matter, recognized it as where injustice actually takes place, and also saw that nothing had happened at the opening point within the international community or in relation to Germany, regardless of what the government had ever decided on this issue. Nobody even opened their mouths on these issues. As a result, it is now totally inappropriate to talk about helping and things like this, and it is totally inappropriate to walk your head through a wall in the international community if you have no way to recover anything from anyone. As a result, these sources of funding are now three alternatives to this draft law, one of which is an agreement. I am counting on something that can be done through dialogue, but not in a Greek way, not by recovery and not directly. This is one thing that only needs to be understood very well that you can even try to do something about it. Yes, but these matters must also be handled in an appropriate manner. If it were not for government coordination, it would not be government-coordinated for the next ten years, given the situation within ministries. [[advertising from the hall]] No, it's not just the Ministry of the Modern Centre Party. This is not important; it is important that the resistance to the resolution of these matters is such that it cannot be resolved in any way other than by a Member's or a Member's Group. I absolutely think that since the matter is open, there is also a further way to go if it is adopted for further consideration today. Therefore, it is absolutely unnecessary at this point to condition support with this, that, third, with such, different, third, fourth commitment that a person should make, even though he does not even know if he will be able to realize any of them. Promises just don't make sense. What a person can do is — and in this case this law allows — the legal basis that we can even talk about solving material damage in a symbolic way, for we cannot afford anything more than a symbolic way. However, if there is no legal basis, the state will never be obliged to do so. In order not to embalm and fuel the fire further, I might conclude only with the words that I have prepared for the introduction, but somehow I have not reached the end. These are the words of the great Canadian statesman Wilfrid Laurier, who says: “It is not hateful rebellion, but the self - control it unleashes; it is not hateful rebels, but those who, despite their power, do not fulfill their responsibilities. These are the ones who have the power to correct injustices; but those who turn to them do not want to hear. These are the ones who deliver the stone in the application for bread." If I understand today's debate correctly, we'll have bread today. I also want to continue constructively in the future in order to come up with the most optimal solutions and at the same time to fix this oldest one, I will not say the only thing or anything like that, because correcting injustices is a step by step, but it is a very important wound for people. I think it's worth it to do it, and it's only right to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u77	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I'm guessing it's an interest, so I'm inviting you to sign up. The application shall be made. The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to draw attention to the fact that just before the break-up of Parliament, we have received a whole bunch of different laws on the table, aimed at more than EPP or obtaining electoral points for a particular group of people. This has led to the fact that these laws are largely poorly prepared, very poorly designed, because there has not been a public debate on these laws, nor has the profession cooperated; but some group has gathered together and these laws have been written in the current inspiration. That's why we have so many problems, and that's probably why today we've got such a sensitive topic on the table that we should, at least coalition partners, sit down and discuss thoroughly how to deal with such a topic. In our society, there are many injustices in the country that have arisen in the past, not only from war, but from ongoing injustices. At the time of independence, a lot of businesses were destroyed, people practically stole part of their pensions, and they are now at the social bottom, making it difficult for them to live. And because of this, any such topic, which means the distribution of social money, is even more sensitive. It is clear, in this case, that there is no ideological issue, and I also believe that the descendants of those who participated in the occupation must be taken care of, as well as of those who participated on the part of the partisans when it comes to whether or not we can provide them with health care, social security and so on. The progeny — What is the child’s fault in punishing him with anything?Oh, my God! These social issues should be resolved in very sensitive ways and not create new injustices. And that is why I think that we should look at such issues – and I hope that we will also be able to make so much power in advance, regardless of the fact that we are five minutes before the dissolution of Parliament, that we will still look at these things and try to make reasonable decisions, which will also be acceptable to those who have experienced certain injustices. There must have been a lot of these wrongs. And even these injustices happen every day, still every day. Now to open up new disputes on a public stage, I find it completely inappropriate; at the same time, we know that if it has already wanted to cut into this area, it would be possible to create a suitable law substantially earlier. We've been available for almost four years. The largest party was in the hands of the Ministry of Justice, including the Ministry of Finance, even though I know what the state of this ministry is and what kind of hearing it has for its wrongs. In fact, they only understand the injustices of capital, the alleged injustices that capital is supposed to experience, which I would like to further reduce taxes so as to be able to pay as little as possible for the social security of people and employees. The point is that if this law is not properly prepared, then it should not go to Parliament in this way and, as it is said, throw away that apple of conflict between Members, among people, because it would only cause new divisions in society, which I think we already have too many, and we should avoid them in advance. So act in this way to care for people and their needs. We know that the elderly are largely at great risk, including social and other, and that there are many injustices committed here, that neither in this mandate nor in previous mandates has enough done for the elderly and that this should lead to the most vulnerable in society. It's not long before we had a strike. We know what the situation was and why the President of the Government resigned. It seems to me that at least they should be the ones I thought were really responsible for. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u79	Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Dr. Brglez says he's feeling guilty right now for making a marriage. Very manipulative. I've been looking at Dr. Brglez all these four years really differently. If you had serious intentions, you would probably talk about it with at least coalition partners without informing them just after you filed the law. This topic, which is very sensitive and very vulnerable, you've taken advantage of for some pre-election campaign of yours. And that's what's problematic and what we're dealing with here. For all the discussers here, at least on the left, we agreed that war damage should be paid to the victims of war violence, but how and in what way; especially time is inappropriate. This is the last session, and you come with it. Other than populism, it can't be. You really threw an apple of the dispute, not just among the Members – I think you were aware that if you didn't, it was sad enough – and you threw an apple of the dispute between all the injured people who feel in this proposal of your marriage. Once again, in Levica we agree that this problem needs to be resolved and we will support the proposal of the law, regardless of your objectives, regardless of the timeline, even though you will not recover a cent from Germany by 2020, you will not. And that's why I'm really curious about what, because citizens need to know, you've put here a 180 million-dollar bill worth of where you're going to take it. Which companies did you anticipate for privatisation? What will you sell to get this money, or if we go to the budget, which budget item will you take this money from? The applicant, which is essential, promises compensation for which the money is not available, you have not provided funds for this measure. It is also essential that you have not even tried to provide these funds in Germany. Despite the fact that, as I said, Germany has much, much more money, but it is also essential that the Germans write off all external debt after the war so that Germany can get on its feet. And what's essential is that Germany asked us to pay back all our debts, squeeze us, threaten us with a threesome; but she didn't have to pay. And when the Greeks said - okay, the three of us are squeezing, we have to pay all the way to the last cent, which is our supposed debt; then it was time to say that we too expect that if we are committed to the payment of our debt, Germany must too. What's the point of recovering war damage? The purpose is to punish the one who caused the damage; not to pay the man who suffered the damage himself in such a way as to sell what he had built. Then where are we? I can't think of this move as a pre-election action where you throw candy at people. It's not right, it's not fair. In our first reading, we will support this, and such a proposal from a moral, ethical, or political point of view cannot be opposed. Dr. Brglez, it's a shame you had it at the end of your term.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u81	Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u82	Thank you very much. As much political bluff as I've heard today, I haven't been for a long time. On the one hand, it is not possible to oppose the law for moral reasons and I do not know why; on the other hand, a whole lot of anger at the proposer. This is possible only in our Parliament. That I may be strange; I am not strange, but I will answer some of the obvious. As far as it is clear that the law is proposed before the end of the term; I am confident, given today's debate, that it is never the right time for laws for which there is no wider support. And I am confident after today's debate that there is no such support; even when I listen to Desus, I am sure that there is no support for this law in this parliamentary group. Today we have heard a number of reasons why the law cannot be adopted and how we need to answer specific, other social questions when adopting this specific law. Of course you have to, but not in this law. I don't even understand that we should be discussing some kind of — I don't know if I heard right — compensation to the occupier's assistant. I hope I have heard it wrong, but this debate already shows that it is impossible to find some very broad consensus before marriage is made. It is never too late to find a political consensus for the adoption of the law, until the vote itself. Dear colleagues, those who are up to this question will suggest certain solutions, but not impossible, but some reasonable solution. The questions of the beneficiaries, the questions of resources – very legitimate questions, on the spot, I believe that this will be discussed; I would not like this topic to be extended or this topic to issues that have nothing to do with this law, except those who explicitly want to do so, because the solutions to this question oppose. There's something else I'm glad for. Comrade Han, you mentioned where we came from. I think that this may even be an advantage that in the eastern part of Slovenia we may be even more familiar with the difficulties these people face through life. I am sure that not only because of today's small number of participation in the National Assembly, but also in general the majority of Members do not know this subject at all, they have no idea why this is going on. They do not even know, there is some exile in Slovenian history, that there is also a certain segment of the special victims who were harmed only because they lived in a certain area and because they were Slovenians by nationality. I am sure that many in this House do not know this.If I were to be aware of this, I might be discussing this today. I have before me a book by Mrs Ivica Žnidaršič, which she gave me on one occasion. Perhaps it would be appropriate for such a book to be circulated among Members before the matter is decided. Various documents, described by the activities of the Expulsion Society, are collected inside. I am convinced that everyone who reads what efforts have been made to first make the policy aware of this and then to do anything else, certain measures have been taken, some of the measures or rights that have been allocated have been later, and in 2012, even taken. So it would be wise for each of us to get to know what has been done so far and what has yet to be done. I think that there is no place at points like today that I'm glad that we all have it on the tables for us to argue at home, who's guilty and why not, whether the marriage came a month earlier or later in the National Assembly. I think today would be a much more fruitful debate on what exactly, which article needs to be amended, so that we can finally find support for the whole law. I hope that this will continue and that the law will come under majority support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u83	Dr. Milan Brglez has the floor. A replica? Mrs. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, there is no longer a replica in this part. Dr. Milan Brglez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I certainly think that the topic that this law has opened is the topic that deserves to be debated in the National Assembly, most likely indeed the debate on the problem itself, not all matters that are or are not related to it in any way or otherwise, unless in fact it is that classic way of connecting everything to each other. Then nothing can really be solved. You can only solve one thing at a time, so step by step, I think this is a step in the right direction. The choice, which is at least to me or, yes, especially to me, is whether you help and bring the matter to pass, that these conditions are met, that you can make a marriage, and by doing so you try to save yourself from it, because time is the one that runs out to correct these injustices, or on the other hand you do nothing, and you wait for someone else to do it for you. With a dilemma like this, you just do what you think is right. In this case, I have also judged and I am grateful to the entire parliamentary group, which has supported me in submitting this law. The important thing to know is that marriage cannot be more unjust than it could have been any time to correct the injustices of World War II. If it's criminal legislation that he's relying on, and it's a 1995 law, if anyone has it in mind, it doesn't end it. He's not trying to put it any other way. He is trying to build on this in order to symbolically close a question that we have not closed so far, but we have closed it partially or completely in all other periods. And it is not right to leave what is the oldest question open. And now is the only time we have to do this. This is why there is no longer a question of this mandate, the next mandate, such a different consensus, because we will never get the whole social consensus to resolve these issues. I was very disappointed when I looked at the diplomatic archives, how much this question had actually been opened anywhere. And actually there wasn't, there was no note. That's why we say that we're guilty that we're not, yes, in fact, I think some of the charges are completely inappropriate. [[…]] Either we didn't have the will or we didn't hope or we didn't have the knowledge, and most likely it's a combination of everything. But you need all this to do something in international relations. I'm still counting on something to be done through this. Whether a year and a half is enough time for something like this, I find it difficult to judge, but if the matter has never been opened, then the situation is different than if we had already had a dialogue about it and we could have a solution through this dialogue, where the law would only be implementing it. However, to count on a relatively good relationship with Germany to solve any of these problems or to help us solve these matters, it is a different matter than to simply demand and bump through the wall. At a time when you have no legal basis, not even international law, without their consent to recover anything, your language is more appropriate if you want to solve the matter, but if you want to fight, you won't achieve anything. In diplomacy, there is a lot like what happens in interpersonal contacts. It starts at this level, starts at this level, and usually ends at this level. I thank everyone who will see that this law is worth supporting and giving him the opportunity to complete what we should have done a long time ago in this mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u85	Procedurally, mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u86	Mr Vice-President, we should stop Mr Zorčič and warn him when he was talking nonsense about damages to the invader, because this has never been said. The next thing he talked about was that Desus would vote against this law. I am explicitly, you and Mr Zorčič were present, saying that I will vote in favour of the law because we are in favour of correcting the injustices of the exiles, including the children who have been stolen, but we have pointed out the inadequate content of the law itself, the inadequately prepared content that will still have to be severely corrected. As for the book Ivica Žnidaršič, I have read it, I have also read the book on stolen children, and it would not be bad if the drafter of this law, as well as some member of the SMC, who today has so much to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u87	I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today, in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 27th item of the agenda. This also interrupts the 22nd item of the agenda. We're moving to 28. On a daily basis, this is an evocative proposal for a resolution on the national security and health programme at work. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. To further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, to Mr Peter Pogačar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u88	Mr Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! You have before you the motion for a resolution on the national programme on safety and health at work for the period 2018-2027. A modern system of safety and health at work based on promoting a culture of safety and health at work and aimed at preventing accidents at work, occupational diseases and work-related diseases is the basis of every inclusive labour market and efficient economy. The high level of safety at work in Slovenia and the well-being of workers are a prerequisite for the extension of working age, active and healthy ageing. The resolution on the national programme of safety and health at work aims to bring together all stakeholders in the system of safety and health at work in order to pool their strengths and participate in the implementation of the generally accepted vision of safety and health at work in Slovenia, in accordance with their mission. The effective provision of safety and health at work without accidents at work, occupational diseases and work-related diseases is not only the interest of workers and not only the obligation of employers but is a national interest. Efforts to raise the level of culture of prevention in the labour environment must become a common commitment of the Government, the social partners, businesses and workers. The national programme ahead of you is divided into five sets of strategic objectives. The first set is aimed at ensuring safety at work. It is based on the understanding that prevention of accidents at work is one of the main tasks of ensuring safety at work. The second set of objectives is based on prevention of occupational accidents and occupational diseases. Promoting and maintaining the mental health of workers is essential for increasing productivity, because only a healthy worker is satisfied and only a healthy worker is productive. A systematic approach to the prevention of bone and muscle diseases is also needed, as such diseases and defects constitute one of the main reasons for absence from work in the Republic of Slovenia. The third set of strategic objectives, however, aims at promoting a culture of prevention aimed at raising awareness of all stakeholders, focusing on prevention in the working environment and taking account of the diversity of campaign-based workers. The campaign is an effective way to raise awareness among employers, workers and the general public about key issues of safety and health at work. It is also important that we also allow young people to start a safe career, so we need to raise them a culture of prevention as we grow older. The fourth set of strategic objectives is aimed at ensuring the safety and health of workers working in new forms of work and employment. It is important to note that digitalisation that occurs in the labour market has significantly increased efficiency while also presenting and presenting new risks to workers' health and safety. The fifth set of strategic objectives is aimed at promoting social dialogue on safety and health at work. In order to achieve a high level of culture of prevention, participation of workers in governance is crucial. The joint training programmes of managers and labour representatives for safety and health at work help to establish a uniform view of this area and to better cooperate both in exploring the causes of accidents at work and risk assessment. The proposal for a national programme shall indicate the stakeholders and key agents of the measures, with three-year action plans representing the implementation documents of the national programme. The three-year action plans will set out measures, operators of measures, financial resources needed to implement measures, deadlines and ways of monitoring the implementation of measures. An analysis will be prepared after the end of each three-year period. The national programme for safety and health at work is prepared on the basis of a broad professional and public debate – I must stress this – with the extremely creative cooperation and consensus of all the social partners. I therefore ask that you support the draft resolution on the national programme on safety and health at work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u89	The motion for a resolution was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Uroš Pikl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is 8. The draft resolution on the national programme on safety and health at work submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the National Assembly was considered on 3 this year. Representatives of the Government, both ministries, i.e. the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, as well as the Ministry of Health, which has directly identified the document, were also represented by representatives of the State Council and the Legal and Legislative Service. Very briefly, what it is about the national programme. Five sets are essential. The first set of objectives is aimed at ensuring safety at work, based on the understanding that prevention of accidents at work is one of the main tasks of ensuring safety at work itself. The second set of strategic objectives is aimed at ensuring health at work and is based on prevention of accidents at work, occupational diseases and occupational diseases. The third set of strategic objectives is aimed at promoting a culture of prevention in the working environment and taking account of the diversity of workers. And it's based on a variety of campaigns. The fourth set of strategic objectives is aimed at ensuring the safety and health of workers working in new forms of work and employment. The final fifth, key or more important is the fifth set of strategic objectives aimed at promoting social dialogue on safety and health at work. The national programme itself lists stakeholders and key actors, with three-year action plans as implementing documents of the national programme. They will identify the measures, operators of measures, financial resources necessary to implement measures, deadlines and ways of monitoring the implementation of measures. As it is said, one of the participating stakeholders – The legislative and legal service has examined the proposed resolution on safety and health at work in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects, and has made some comments which have been taken into account in the proposed amendments. In its opinion, the Commission of the Council of State for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons said very briefly that the motion for a resolution supported. As it is said, amendments were tabled within the time limit under which coalition parliamentary groups were signed and adopted by the committee. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on and adopted all parts of the motion for a resolution on safety and health at work. In the light of these amendments, which have been adopted on the Committee itself under Article 133(1) of our Rules of Procedure, the text of the supplementary motion for a resolution in which amendments are adopted is prepared. This supplementary motion for a resolution, however, is an integral part of the report which I have briefly presented to you in these few minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u91	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, followed by Mr Saša Tabaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u92	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! The impact of technological progress and demographic change that we are witnessing today is permeability on all fields of social life. This is particularly reflected in the working environment, and this is undoubtedly linked to the area of safety and health at work. New forms of work, new professions and new risks are emerging as a result of the transition to the Fourth Industrial Revolution. It is clear that the new challenges call for new reflection in the system of safety and health at work, which will meet current challenges. Unfortunately, the number of accidents at work in Slovenia, despite all the measures taken, is still high, which is why workers suffering in the first place from injuries, their relatives, pension and health bills suffer, and last but not least the entire economy. In 2016, according to the National Institute for Public Health, more than 14,000 cases were reported when workers were detained for injury at work or occupational disease. There is no doubt, however, that safe jobs also contribute positively to a higher level of productivity of workers. While the legislation on safety and health at work is clear in Slovenia, it is particularly worrying that the Labour Inspectorate in the last report has expressed serious concern about the growing violations in this area. We are therefore particularly pleased to consider today the motion for a resolution on the national programme on safety and health at work, which not only replaces the previous 2003 resolution, but also builds on it in the light of social changes. Carriers, deadlines, necessary financial resources and indicators shall be identified to monitor the implementation of the objectives, activities and measures. We are confident that the stakeholders identified in the motion for a resolution will make a significant contribution by their activities and actions to making the state of safety and health at work in Slovenia even higher, and that employers will no longer only be involved in ensuring minimum legal obligations, but will take the workers' benefits a step further. In particular, in the European Pillar of Social Rights, which forms the basis for the management of social and employment policies in the European Union by 2025, one of the key principles is the sound, safe and appropriate working environment. The resolution under consideration today is therefore a key step towards achieving this principle. In the SMC Group, we support the motion for a resolution. The area of safety and health at work with its principles, rules and activities is not only a legal obligation but also a social obligation. Only by pursuing a higher level of safety and health at work can workers be allowed to do their work with full effect and without harm to their health. It is crucial that the legislative provisions, principles and strategic objectives set out in the motion for a resolution are respected, and that is why one of our programme commitments is also more effective in preventing and punishing abuses of labour law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u93	Mr Marijan Pojbič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u94	Your Honor! Workflows are constantly changing. On the one hand, there is a close technological and information development, and on the other hand, an ageing society is setting new challenges to regulating the working environment. In general, satisfaction in the workplace, which is inseparably linked to health, safety and well-being, is a key factor in high performance and quality work. That is why the regulation of this area is in the interest of all stakeholders, both employers and employees. Prevention, however, is the key to success in managing this area. We therefore support the objectives of this resolution, but note that this is not enough. Throughout her term of office, the government indicated that she was inclined to think, teach, plan, and could list. In particular, the outsourcing of these analyses with external operators has been particularly successful, but has deteriorated in practice. There is nothing left of beautiful words, ethics and morality, so our confidence in the implementation of such documents is justified. In particular, as the resolution in question is not supported by the proposal for an action plan, neither are the institutions known nor the deadlines for implementation. Therefore, dear government in departure, thank you for your good wishes, will obviously have to take over someone who is also able to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u95	Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u96	Your Honor! Very briefly, the position of the Desus Group on the draft resolution on the national programme of safety and health at work. This resolution, which refers to the national programme on safety and health at work, is an important strategic document, according to our assessment. As a summary of the draft objectives and measures, it sets out a further vision of how a job should be created, if we are to continue to feel good about this job, as a result of good business performance and, at the end of the day, a higher and stable economic growth that must be for all of us for a long-term objective. The preparation of the document took into account changes in society, the needs of employers and workers, forecasts of new risks, assessments of the current situation in this area and, last but not least, the analysis of the implementation of the resolution so far and the field research carried out. The workplace, which is optimally adapted to the human being, who develops and nurtures human abilities, enhances his work performance and joy at work and develops his own values, contributes to the well-being of the individual, contributes to the well-being of the company or other work organisation, as well as of society as a whole. It is therefore important that we are all aware of the importance of safety and health at work: the employer, the employer and, of course, the country. We are actually spending at least one third of the day in the workplace today. If we add to this some other facts, the characteristics of the modern working environment, which is not always positive, would indicate an extremely large number of overtimees, where Slovenians are above average according to data, given the problem of ageing society and the associated tendency to extend working hours, when we examine the results related to abstention, the sum of these behaviours or knowledge gives us a very clear signal, and it is necessary to make further efforts in the future to ensure health as safe jobs as possible, so that more will have to be done and done for the greater kindness of the comprehensive working environment, so that more intergenerational tolerance, connectivity, cooperation and more can be mentioned. In particular, in the context of an ageing society and, as a result, subsequent retirement, in the Desus Group, we would like to highlight explicitly and also welcome the promotion of so-called lifelong learning and the promotion of mentoring in both directions. So flow and transfer of knowledge and experience from one generation to the other and vice versa. Members and Members of the Desus Group understand and evaluate the resolution as an appropriate, well-prepared and relatively ambitious one. That's why we're going to support her unanimously. At the same time, I would also like to point out our express wish or appeal that this document remains not only a dead letter on paper, but achieves its purpose in practice, in particular in the interest and, I stress, for the benefit of all people, all employees, which is also the purpose of the document itself. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u97	Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Well-welcome Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At its 1st meeting in 1950, the Joint Commission of the International Labour Organisation and the World Health Organisation identified health at work 45 years later. I quote: “Health at work should strive to promote and maintain the highest level of physical, mental and social well-being of workers in all professions, to prevent the absence of workers from working because of health problems related to working conditions, to protect workers from the risks posed to health by harmful factors, to place and to keep the worker in the environment adapted to his physiological and psychological abilities. In short, to adapt the work of man and every man to his work.” End of quote. The concept of safety and health at work by its content and the purpose of the right and obligation of employers and workers to prevent, in accordance with the law and other regulations, risks and harm at work, to ensure the level of safety and health at work, to ensure the highest possible degree of health and psychophysical safety for the worker. At the same time, the employer is obliged to adapt its measures to ensure safety and health at work to changing circumstances, to continuously improve the existing state or level of safety and health at work. The reasons for health and safety at work are moral, legal and economic. When we talk about moral reasons, we are primarily talking about the duty to be careful of all those present in the work process. However, from an economic point of view, it should be borne in mind that inadequate working conditions mean considerable costs for the country as well as for the employer and the worker. It is therefore important that the field of safety and health at work define the principles, rules and activities that an individual, i.e. a worker, must be able to carry out his or her work successfully with full work and without prejudice to his or her health from the first working day until the end of his or her working life. One of the most important documents in this area is the resolution on the national programme on safety and health at work, which is under way today. The resolution covers five main strategic objectives aimed at ensuring safety at work, ensuring health at work, promoting a culture of prevention in the workplace, ensuring the safety and health of workers working in new forms of work and employment and promoting social dialogue in this area. A modern way of life brings many headaches, frustrations, and such or other demands that can put an individual under stress. As the stress associated with work in our environment is increasingly extensive and present, it is therefore particularly important that we also address this area with appropriate measures. For both the professional and the lay public, there has been long agreement on how important it is for us to feel good, safe, and well-being in the workplace. We therefore particularly welcome the fact that the resolution also focuses on the area of psychosocial risk at work. In the text of the resolution we can read, only a healthy worker is a satisfied and productive worker, and we add, care for the worker, for his health, well-being and well-being should lead the work process. Social Democrats welcome the text of the resolution, which is fully in line with the social partners, which gives them additional weight and a good way forward. We will therefore support the resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u99	Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, chairman. The proposed Resolution on the National Safety and Health Programme at Work will replace the present one adopted 15 years ago. In Levi, we agree that there is a need for a new strategic document in this area, in particular due to the changing labour market situation, which appears both in new technologies and in particular to health risks brought about by the increase in finesse work and, as a result, increasing pressure on regular employees. In Levi, therefore, more than what the motion for a resolution contains bothers us what it does not. If we read Chapter 4: Strategic objectives aimed at ensuring the safety and health of workers working in new forms of work and employment, as this title reads, we can rightly expect that there will be talks on prevention of health risks resulting from the increasing overreach of the labour market. In Levi, we expected the resolution to mention, at least by word of mouth, the problem of forced self-employment and hidden working relationships, but we were obviously too optimistic. Why? The health risk in these workers is particularly pronounced. Among others, this was confirmed by the National Institute for Public Health, where 16 international studies were conducted last year in relation to the status of self-employed and health. These studies, published in the most respected health journals, confirm that the health status of self-employed workers is worse than the health status of regular employees. We have repeatedly warned about this problem in Levica. The optimal solution would, of course, be to seriously address the issue of covert working relationships, to introduce measures to eliminate pecuniary forms of work, to strengthen supervision in the labour market and thus to provide protection for all workers who are entitled to it, or to provide at least basic protection for those currently second-class workers for a short period of time. Covert working relationships and the rise in forced self-employment are, as we know, a disguise of actual working relationships with different contractual forms of work, mostly for work through forced espionage. Self-employment as the fastest growing form of employment in Slovenia has been fuelling regular employment for many years. But most of these new self-employment is not really about craftsmen, small entrepreneurs, independent professions, but about holiday workers who are forced into this self-employment and who work in de facto working relationships. You have been familiar with such areas of labour law, colleagues and fellow Members, in this mandate several times, and at least at the declaratory level, the ministry that has drawn up this resolution is also aware of the problem. We all know that these workers are deprived of the full scope of the labour rights they should have, from wages to social and health care. In the context of health, a particularly problematic working time, which is often much longer, and the absence of the right to rest and paid leave and, most importantly in this context, the absence of the right to hospital compensation, which leads to presentation in the workplace. In particular, there is a case of one-person espies and workers working on the basis of franchises and other contracts. We have been able to understand this in practical terms on the case of shopkeepers who go to work even though they are sick. This resolution does not cover their health and their health, as it blindly follows the wrong and cruel definition that in these cases it is not really workers, although practice says otherwise. If this document, as Mr State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour Peter Pogacar said on the Committee, has implications for the development of the labour market over the next ten years, then this only means that you will continue to lose sight of both eyes with regard to the exaggeration and its negative effects on human health. Since the SMC members there are happy to take pictures of themselves during my speech on the health of self-employed people with their phones and smile, I am not surprised by that attitude towards the fine-tuning workers.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u101	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have been tabled. The decision on the motion for a resolution will be made today in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 27th item of the agenda. I also interrupt the 28th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 27. This is a draft resolution on the National Mental Health Programme between 2018 and 2028. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government to the assembly. To further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Jožica Maučec Zakotnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! The resolution on the National Mental Health Programme, defined by the Mental Health Act 2008, is the first strategic document in Slovenia to outline a comprehensive and long-term development strategy in the field of mental health for the next ten years. Why should we have a long-term mental health strategy and programme? Because good mental health is an investment in national prosperity, it enables and strengthens the quality of life and the development potential of each individual and society as a whole. However, poor mental health not only affects the quality of life of an individual but also burdens health, economic, educational, police, justice and other social subsystems. The cost of poor mental health is between 4% and 7% of the gross social product. At least 20% of people suffer from various forms of mental problems and disorders each year. Stigma of mental disorder, which is large in Slovenia, has a negative impact on accessibility or the course of medical treatment. It is unacceptable that people with mental disorders die on average 20 years earlier than people with good mental health. Despite these facts, the area of mental health in Slovenia has been neglected for decades. The 2015 recommendations of the World Health Organisation for Slovenia for mental health direct the country to provide greater access to services and services for mental health at the primary level and in the community and a greater commitment to mental health at the policy level. What, then, does the resolution bring us? The resolution calls for horizontal responsibility for better mental health of people in Slovenia and introduces systematic promotion of mental health and prevention of mental disorders in all environments, schools, kindergartens, workplaces and local communities. The network of interdisciplinary, interdisciplinary and interdisciplinary services introduced by the resolution will ensure early and equitable access to mental health services and programmes for the entire population. The role of health homes in which mental health centres will be complemented or established, which will be linked to services in the field of social protection, education and other providers in the field of mental health and non-governmental organisations. Community treatment of mental disorders is established in all regions, with interdisciplinary and interdisciplinary mobile community teams including health, social and other services, treatment, rehabilitation and formal and informal networks of assistance to persons with severe and recurrent mental disorders. We pay special attention in the resolution to measures to reduce stigma, suicide and more effective treatment of persons who consume alcohol in a risky or harmful manner. The resolution also introduces or upgrades developmental outpatients with early treatment personnel with developmental disorders, in accordance with the law on early treatment. The resolution also addresses the challenge of ensuring sufficient human resources in the field of mental health and the systematic resolution of psychotherapy. The resolution also adequately represents the field of research, monitoring and counter-evaluation and effective management of the implementation of the resolution into practice. The resolution also has a clear financial structure and includes both budgetary resources and resources of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia and other resources for investment in mental health. We were also pleased with the broad professional and political support we received during the preparation and in the public debate. Many responses testify that the resolution is hard to expect. I wish us great courage and great perseverance and good cooperation in the implementation of the resolution, both between sectors at national and local level and between and with various services, NGOs, users and relatives. That's the only way we'll be successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Health Committee as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Marijan Pojbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u104	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The Health Committee shall meet at its 30th meeting, on 8. 3. 2018 as a parent working body, considered the draft resolution on the national mental health programme submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Jožica Maučec Zakotnik, presented in the introductory explanation the main directions and objectives of the motion for a resolution and stressed that the resolution was a strategic document that would have an important impact on the organisation and care of mental health in Slovenia. Ms Voršič, representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, said that the Legislative and Legal Service had examined the motion for a resolution in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the legislative technical aspect. It stressed that the resolution is an act by which the National Assembly assesses the situation, sets out the policy and adopts national programmes in specific areas. The Legislative and Legal Service has no comments to the motion for a resolution, but will make some corrections and editorial corrections before the resolution is published in the Official Journal, which do not alter the content of the proposed text. The opinion of the State Council, the Commission for Social Security, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons was presented by mag. Mr Požun stressed that the Commission supports the motion for a resolution. The representatives of the University Clinical Centre Maribor, the Slovenian Mental Health Society – ŠENT, the Owners' Forum of Slovenia, the Slovenian Suicide Prevention Association, the Association of Psychotherapists of Slovenia, the Chamber of Clinical Psychologists, the Medical House of Ljubljana, the Health House of Sevnica, the Altra Society, the Chambers of Health and Granny Care of Slovenia, the Medical Chambers of Slovenia, the National Institute of Public Health, the Slovenian Association for Children and Medical Psychiatry, the Slovenian Foundation for Psychotherapy, and representatives of the relatives and users. In the debate, it was commended that after a decade an agreement had been reached between all stakeholders and that a resolution in the National Assembly would finally be adopted. Amendments were tabled within the deadline, which had to be tabled up to 2. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amendments of the SMC, SD and Desus coalition groups to Chapter 5, Priority areas, subsection 5.3.4 Psychological and psychotherapeutic activities; Chapter 12, Annex; Chapter 13, Action Plan; the following Nsi groups to Chapter 4, Subpart 4.3, Chapter 5, Priority areas, Subpart 5.3.4, Psychological and psychotherapeutic activities; Chapter 12, Annex. The Committee adopted the amendments of the NSI Group to Chapter 4, sub-chapter 4. 3; SMC, SD and Desus coalition groups and NSI Group of Members to Chapter 5, Priority areas, subsection 5.3.4, Psychological and psychotherapeutic activities; SMC, SD and Desus coalition groups to Chapter 13, Action Plan. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of the NSI Group to Chapter 12. The amendment to Chapter 12 was adopted by the Committee in Sub-Chapter 4, the National and Regional Specialized Ambulance Team for the Treatment of Children and Adolescents with Complex Disorders and Conditional Conditions, which reads as follows: “The aim is to provide clinical psychologists and psychologists with additional knowledge in clinical practice”. In sub-chapter 5 Sub-specialist ambulances and hospital gerontopsiatric teams and teams for specific mental disorders, the following sentence is added at the end of the text: “The aim is to provide psychologists with additional knowledge in the field of prevention of mental health”. But this is about editorial coordination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Nada Brinovšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, lovely greeting to everyone. The Resolution on the National Mental Health Programme should ensure the right to optimal mental health for individuals as well as conditions for equal access and quality assistance. At present, this area is messy, the Ministry has allowed chaos in this area for four years, and the consequences are borne by our citizens. However, a thorough review of the resolution and the ministry's declarations immediately raises doubts about our will and our desire for the optimal mental health of individuals and equal access and quality assistance. In presenting the resolution, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health said: “Today is a very important day for all of us.” These words remind us of the words of the Minister of Health in September 2016 when she announced health reform. At that time, the minister said, “Today is a great day for all Slovenians”. But there was nothing from this big day, at least as far as health improvements are concerned. Well, there have been some minor corrections, but these changes in legislation, which have been adopted after a reduced procedure and without the participation of the profession, will or will be more damaging to our healthcare system than they will be. The fact is that in Slovenia we have been neglecting mental health concerns for many years, despite the fact that in Slovenia around 450 people die each year because of suicide, we are at the top of the world's summit on suicide rates, that on average 881 people die annually because of alcohol sickness, that mental and behavioural disorders in third place have increased by about 26% at primary level and 70% at secondary level due to the consequences of mental health, that in Slovenia there are large differences in access to mental health services, that we still do not have a national public network in the field of mental health and early detection of mental health disorders and that there is a poor quality of treatment at secondary level. These are the reasons why we so urgently need a resolution on national health and later to amend legislation in this area. We have warned this in the Slovenian Democratic Party all four years. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that the very implementation of this resolution will be extremely difficult. The Ministry says that the section, the Department of Health Insurance, local communities, employers participated in the drafting of the resolution, but the resolution was not inter-sectorally coordinated, at least that is the response we received at the meeting of the home labour body. The fact is that the resolution is written in a very general way, too ambitious and without precise objectives, given that in this area, we belong to the European Summit itself in the area of mental illness. Although the ministry received a applause from the coalition at the adoption of the resolution on the Labour Committee and despite the State Secretary's statement on the Health Committee's adoption, today is an important day for all of us, we are, of course, skeptical of all this euphoria in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Why? Firstly, because we do not believe any more in the words and actions of this minister and of this ministry and, secondly, the resolution in the financing work states that the implementation will depend on the ability, I repeat, on the ability of the state budget, on municipal budgets and on the health treasury, that we do not speak at all about the ability and will of the economy or employers, who will be very burdensome after the new one. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the resolution despite all our concerns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Gantar will present the position of the Desus Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! The area of mental health is becoming more and more up-to-date both in the European and global criteria and effective measures in the field of mental health are crucial to the progress of society, including its economic performance. Only a healthy individual who can face all the burdens of modern society and daily stress can contribute to the effectiveness of the entire social community. Unfortunately, data on research and health statistics for Slovenia are not encouraging and show a marked increase in mental health and some mental disorders. The reasons are different, and they certainly include today's rapid pace of life, high expectations for individuals, increasing socio-economic differences, and the loneliness of older people. In addition, the existing network of services and professional teams is insufficient today, and accessibility to these health services between regions within Slovenia is very different. It is therefore time to adopt a strategic document that can have an important impact on organised mental health care for the Slovenes and Slovenes. It is worth noting, however, that the motion for a resolution represents only a first step towards a comprehensive approach to mental health, from promotion and protection to programmes for the desigmation of mental disorders, early diagnosis, interdisciplinary treatment and rehabilitation of people with mental disabilities. The envisaged 25 regional centres for mental health are expected to upgrade the existing network in terms of staff and content, but a sufficient number of adequately trained teams will have to be taken care of and included among health programme providers. Without the additional resources provided, the Resolution on the National Programme of Mental Health could only become one of the documents without real value and meaning. The Resolution on the National Programme of Mental Health therefore brings us closer to European standards for addressing people with mental health problems, as well as to eliminating the current unacceptable differences in this area between regions. Therefore, in the Desus Group, we will support the motion for a resolution in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Mental health is the basis of the health of each individual. Only good mental health has a positive impact on social, family and economic stability, social well-being and the quality of life of people. Poverty, social exclusion and inequality in society have proven to increase the risk of poor mental health. Risk factors for mental problems and disorders in addition to sex, age, heritage, personality characteristics, lifestyle include environmental factors, quick lifestyles, high expectations for individuals, rising socio-economic inequalities and disadvantages, and the loneliness of older and disabled persons. The high rate of mental disorder is a matter of concern. The phenomenon is closely correlated with poverty, social exclusion and the unfavourable situation in the workplace or unemployment as one of the greatest causes of stress. Improving mental health is one of the strategic objectives of the European Union's policy and has given it a lot of attention and political activity in recent years. This is also what we do in Slovenia. There are significant differences in accessibility to mental health services, significant socio-economic and demographic differences within specific geographical areas. In addition to temporary mental distress affecting the adult population, and stress and anxiety and depression in adults and dementia in the elderly in Slovenia, alcohol use and suicide are also at the heart of the public health problem. Without mistaking, alcohol is a big problem. Also due to extreme social tolerance and the widespread presence of Slovenia, it is among countries with high alcohol consumption, which is an important risk factor for mental health problems. The resurgence of suicides, however, must give us genuine concern, as suicides are on the rise especially in the elderly. The statistics in the introduction to the resolution do not flatter us and oblige us to do everything and more to address them and to safeguard our potentials represented by our children and adolescents. We agree with the record that the provision of a safe and stimulating environment that prevents mental problems in childhood is an investment of society, but this same company must also take care of those in the adult group in which the number of treatments due to stress and adaptation disorders has increased in recent years. The national mental health programme is the basis for ensuring the individual's right to optimal mental and physical well-being, to the conditions for the development and application of potentials in professional, social and private life and to access to quality sources of assistance. All of this will be achieved by strengthening and maintaining the good mental health of all people in Slovenia, by preventing problems and disruptions from the earliest period to late age, by reducing stigma and discrimination against persons with mental disabilities, by establishing a supportive environment for good mental health, by improving the competence of professional services in all areas of mental health protection, by bringing services and services for the mental health of users closer and by reducing institutionalisation in this area. In our Group of Members, we believe that the motion for a resolution on the national programme of mental health, which we have under consideration, is a good document and that our unanimous support will also be given. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, chairman. The proposed programme provides for the establishment of mental health centres in all 25 health homes in Slovenia. Although we had a very solid network in the past in this area, it was destroyed by the privatisation and award of concessions. If we can build it again, all people in Slovenia will be able to receive free psychiatric, psychological and psychosocial assistance in their health care. Members of the Left, we support this plan. At the same time, I must warn citizens and citizens that the programme will remain a dead letter on paper if the country continues to lead the policies of the extreme centre. Mental disorders and diseases are largely the result of social diseases: unemployment, poverty, inequality. And the economic policy of the parties to the extreme centre causes permanent unemployment and poverty, which their social policy cannot either alleviate or eliminate. This is why social disparities in Slovenia have soared that 10% of the richest households in Slovenia now own almost half of all the assets in Slovenia and have only 0.5% of the poorest. There were 280 000 poor people in Slovenia before last year, of which 47,000 were children. According to Minister Anja Kopač Dark, half of the unemployed are difficult to employ, and the other half are not employed at the moment. And these people are totally dependent on social benefits, which are absolutely too low. However, they are too low because Slovenia is targeting only 16.7% of GDP for social protection, which is significantly less than the average of the European Union, and which is 5 percentage points less than Austria's consumption with a similar social structure. Although we have higher unemployment rates than Austria for the unemployed, we consume three times the lower share of domestic product. All of these are factors that greatly contribute to mental health disorders and why our people turn to psychological, psychological and psychological help. If we are to replace and correct these phenomena, we must begin by eliminating at least extreme poverty and thus prevent the emergence of mental diseases and disorders in poor people with radical social policies. Members of the Left have achieved significant improvements in social policy in this mandate, especially for school children. The fight against poverty and mental illness caused by poverty will also be the priority of the Left in the next mandate. The next problem we need to alert citizens and citizens is that the parties to the extreme centre have largely privatised the health system and have impoverished health homes and hospitals. Although health is the absolute priority of our citizens, Cerara's government provided only 6.7% of GDP of public funds for this area last year, much less than the average of the European Union and much less than our northern neighbour Austria. Today, at the end of the mandate of the Cerara government, disabled youth in Stara Gora are still being treated in barracks from the salons. The renovation is still not completed because the government has not provided 3.8 million euros in time in the departure. At the same time, NATO's bureaucrats are already sunbathing in NATO's new headquarters, for which we had to contribute more than €8 million to Slovenian citizens and citizens. In order to implement the mental health programme and improve the health system at all, we will need significantly more public funding. It is said that we will have to increase our revenue and change our priorities on the expenditure side. Additional resources can only be obtained through fair taxation of capital and property of high value and the abolition of supplementary health insurance. At the same time, in Levica, we demand that the Government invest in the development, well-being and health of all inhabitants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia, as agreed with NATO to arm the battalion groups. It's the only way we'll be able to enjoy the welfare of everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Chairman. Your Honor! Let me make it clear immediately and loudly that we have never had a resolution on a national mental health programme. In 2009, the Mental Health Act was adopted and it was then stated that we would adopt this resolution. We accept it today. Of this, it is almost ten years old and, as I repeat, we have never had it, so today is an important day for the Republic of Slovenia to finally get a resolution on the national mental health programme for the next ten years. Not only that, it will not only be a resolution, but there will also be an action plan, which means that we will also have a financial framework for the implementation of the whole resolution. Why is the resolution important? Because it ensures the promotion of mental health and also the protection of mental health in the Republic of Slovenia. Important attention shall be paid to programmes for vulnerable groups and to programmes for mental health education. It is very important that the resolution is based on the so-called Community approach, i.e. on the participation of all stakeholders that are important in this area. So in addition to the ministries responsible for this area, all stakeholders in society, such as NGOs, users and the like. The resolution establishes a public network of mental health services for children, adolescents, adults and the elderly, where interdisciplinary treatment will be provided at local level, including a mobile community-based treatment team in the home environment of persons with mental health problems. For children and adolescents, 25 child mental health centres are established in health centres based on the existing so-called mental and hygiene dispensers. Part of this consideration, which is also covered by the resolution, is the extension of the development infirmary, where early treatment of children with special needs will be ensured. These ambulances will also be part of the implementation of early treatment and part of the action plan to ensure mental health in the Republic of Slovenia over the next ten years. Thus, the Early Treatment of Children Act with Special Needs becomes part of the Ministry of Health system and part of this resolution, which is very important. We also assess that the resolution adequately addresses the problem of poverty, exclusion and inequality in a society that has proven to increase the risk of poor mental health. It is very important, and I also said this to the committee when we discussed the resolution that the resolution was adopted with the broad consensus of the profession. In this way, man would expect us to work in all important projects also in the National Assembly and to adopt all documents of such importance to our country with such an agreement of the profession. In the Modern Centre Party, we believe that it is high time to adopt this resolution after so many years, so of course we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have been tabled. The decision on the motion for a resolution will be held in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end the 27th agenda item and the 39th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u116	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 19, 22, 28, 27, 16, 20, 21 and 31 items of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Protection We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on International Protection is appropriate for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u117	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! We will, of course, support the proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have every right to live safely in Slovenia. No foreigner's right may be over this right. The bill before you covers only one part which should be self-evident to everyone that someone who is caught up in a criminal offence cannot then exercise the right to asylum that someone “who has a legal judgment and is dangerous to the Republic of Slovenia” is a literal quote in our bill or who has reasonable suspicion that he has done so has been caught up in the fact that he can no longer exercise the right to asylum. This ensures greater security, which also reduces costs, and only in these cases. It is important to know that things in this area will become more complicated and more acute. The international situation has changed significantly since three years ago. Today there are all around us, all around Slovenia the right government. The two first neighbours predict that they will expel a very large number of illegal migrants. Italy even talks about the number 600,000, Austria 50 thousand. The remaining European countries, including Germany, are talking about remigration, about sending these people back. They're not any fugitives. These are economic migrants, as it is known which countries are most of those now coming from Algeria, Morocco, Iran and then Albania, Kosovo and so on. They're men, they're not some vulnerable group, and it's probably clear to everyone what's going on here. This is mainly about security, the issue of human security in Slovenia, as well as the question of how people feel about humanitarianism, as someone said in the debate earlier. If in Slovenia someone who has a pension lives with 600 euros, if someone works all the time in the company for 600, 700 euros, then it is unacceptable, it is unsustainable, contrary to all the principles on which Slovenia is founded, that someone comes across the border, obviously abuses international regulations, commits another crime, enforces the right to asylum and then receives a allowance from the country of Slovenia and costs the Slovenian taxpayers a thousand 963 euros each month. Procedures according to current standards are long and, of course, [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u118	We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 44. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. This concludes item 19 of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Reparation of Property Damage from World War II. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the recovery of property damage from World War II is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the leftist Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u119	Members of the Left will support the proposal at first reading. We will support him to help the exiles, the interns, the campers and their descendants. There is no doubt that the families that the invaders and collaborators expelled from their homes lived in peace even more difficult than they would have if that had not happened. There is no doubt that many of the surviving exiles and their descendants live in neglected regions of Posavje, Hostel and some parts of Styria. Often it was because they died mostly, poor pensioners with miserable pensions. Many of them have been deprived of a state pension and a security allowance by the Government of Social Democrats and Desus, led by Borut Pahor, and would have benefited from this €6,000. The proposal by Dr. Brglez does not provide compensation to the exiles. It was clear from the debate that compensation was not provided. In particular, the Cerara government has not even started talks with Germany on the recovery of war damage and will not receive a cent from Germany by 1 January 2020. The privatisation of state-owned enterprises, proposed by Dr Brglez, is by no means considered, because their profits will be a source of long-term income and therefore the government must not sell them out. That is why we will have to find the means to enforce this law at second reading. We propose that all parties supporting the law commit themselves publicly to recover war damage from Germany in the next term, and we propose that funds for expulsion compensation be provided in such a way as to reduce the expenditure on arms. Cerar's government has pledged EUR 1.2 billion to arm two battalion groups promised to Nate. This armament does not need Slovenia, so we can also use part of the funds for compensation. It would certainly not be right to restrict other social rights as a result of compensation. As we say, in Levica we will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u120	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u121	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I didn't sign up for the debate in time, and then I couldn't discuss it, but I would still like to say what my view of this law is. The law on expulsions has been prepared several times in previous mandates to be adopted, but there has never been enough support or energy between Members to see the light of the world. I also came by because my esteemed colleague Violet had earlier spoken of exiles from Posavij, in particular in the south of our country, but I must also draw attention to exiles from Styria. Here he is, if you remember, Führer said: "Make me this country again German!" That is why they were mass evicting all intellectuals, as well as from the congregations that I was covering. I must say that I am pleased that this law has been tabled and that today we will be able to confirm it at first reading. Of course, it would have been better if it had been earlier, since this could have been behind us and this process would have been a little more prepared and assigned and the law itself might have been written in a different segment. I support this law, including some of the Members of our parliamentary group, and I will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u122	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u123	Thank you so much for saying that. I also told myself today that I would support this marriage. The guilt of the exiles must certainly be corrected, but I regret that this law came just before the dissolution of Parliament, which also has a number of shortcomings, which I hope will be resolved by the time we really decide on the right content. The biggest drawback is the one that has already been pointed out by one of the speakers, namely that no financial means have been provided so that these compensations can be paid at all. It's a flaw. Even at the time I was Minister of Culture, I was faced with a resolution that, at the time of the 150 million euro culture budget, promised 800 million to be given for the purpose of culture, but that money was never from anywhere. For this reason, I am very concerned if this is not an empty pre-election promise, I would certainly ask if it is possible for the coalition to sit together and perhaps the opposition, if it is possible to see whether it is also possible to ensure, or how to draw up, the law in such a way that it is realistic then also feasible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u124	A self-explanation of the vote, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. I will also support the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. This is an extremely long-standing effort, both by the Evictions Society and by all those who do not last have this compensation for property damage from World War II. Finally, the acts were also published in the Official Gazette of the Autonomous Authority at that time, all of which provides the legal basis for the payment of this compensation. Of course, this law does not fully cover all damages. Surely another open issue is the issue of material harm. This is the task that the National Assembly or the Government will have to perform if this law is to be submitted to the National Assembly, or the Members in one of the future calls will also be required to resolve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u126	Is there any other explanation? We're voting. 65 Members and Members were present and 42 votes in favour, 1 against. (The vote was 42.)(against 1.) I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the bill will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a working body. We continue with the adjourned 28th item on the agenda, which is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the national programme on safety and health at work. The amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have not been tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a resolution would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 57 in favour and no one opposed. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude the 28th item of the agenda. We continue with the 27th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft resolution on the national mental health programme 2018-2028. The amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have not been tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a resolution would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 61 votes in favour, none against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude the 27th item of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the left-wing group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u127	In Levica, we will support the proposal for a law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture. Culture has lost more than €50 million since 2009, and additional resources are necessary, otherwise we will push more cultural workers and workers into poverty. We will also lose important heritage, culture will become less accessible, which will affect the spiritual level of the entire population of Slovenia. In this mandate, we have drawn attention to three key cultural problems: the poor social situation of self-employed people in culture, the feeding of non-governmental culture, the inadequate protection of immovable cultural heritage. The tightening of the belt has pushed too many cultural workers to the brink of poverty into the chastity of working relationships. More than half of the self-employed in culture do not reach minimum wage, a third of them live below the poverty threshold. In recent years, public institutions have also not been adequately financed by the founders, nor have they provided the necessary coverage of the costs of salaries and programme funds, and despite the high economic level, they remain as they were in the pre-crisis period. In short, the tightening of the cultural belt has to stop. This means a return to at least 2.2% of the budget, as we had in 2009. In Levika we advocate stable public funding and oppose the privatisation and commercialisation of culture. We want to create normal working conditions for cultural workers who will receive fair pay for their work and also have social security guaranteed. As stated in the introduction, the proposal for a law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture will be unanimously supported in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u128	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u129	Thank you for your word. We will also support the law in our parliamentary group. It should be pointed out that the predecessors of this law were already three. After 2013, due to the crisis of the corresponding equivalent to these previous laws, the cultural euro has been gone since then. This is so much more important in the current situation, because we do not have the necessary resources to restore cultural heritage and maintain cultural infrastructure. That is why it is so important that these necessary resources are provided, and I believe that the law will have broad support. As we say, we will support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u130	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament? No, no, no. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u131	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support the law, although I am well aware that once the cameras are turned off, the bill will again forget about this law and the concern for Slovenian culture and cultural heritage as usual. Only rare individuals will continue to strive for Slovenian culture. I must say that in the last 15 years we have lost 830 units of cultural heritage to continue to experience palm trees since independence. Slovenians don't need ISIS. The Slovenian Palmire is caused by the uncultured presidents of governments, cultural committees and their servants. The law is almost identical to what I submitted to the coalition after a successful public debate in 2015 as Minister, and it is stuck in the submission of the President of the Government and the proposer of this law. But there are important differences. Today's law did not go through public debate, and there is also a list of the most high-quality and most endangered Slovenian cultural heritage facilities that should be remedied. This list was established in 2015 by the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage with all the professional criteria of the heritage profession. The next drawback is a substantial reduction in assets for the restoration of heritage objects. With €32 million, which the proposer has dedicated to cultural heritage facilities, it is obvious that more than half of Slovenia's highest quality cultural heritage from the list of Institute for Cultural Heritage Protection will be left to decay and destruction. Whether the country is truly unable to maintain the highest quality cultural heritage in seven years, we ask ourselves. And for the bank hole, there were 5 billion euros. During the Minister's term of office, we restored a number of cultural heritage to mention the National Gallery, Villa Vipolje, Plečnik's House and others [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u132	Is there any other explanation? We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 48 votes against 14. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Culture as its parent working body. I hereby conclude the 16th item of the agenda. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Firearms Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on additions to the Firearms Act is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u133	Your Honor! Firefighters are always the first to jump to help. Firefighting is more than just a profession, firefighting is a mission, a mission for the good of people, is an expression of unselfish will to help, is an expression of Slovenian culture. All these are the reasons why we can always tell each other and all of us together simply – thank you. In the SDS, we have proposed a law with which, and even in concrete terms, we repay ourselves, not only in words, but also in actions. We foresee three forms where the country would specifically help firefighters. Compared to everything you've talked about today, the costs are minimal. That's something I'd like to remind you of. It is the payment of insurance and medical checks, on the one hand, on the other hand, for each day when they are called upon to carry out the operational work to pay them special supplementary insurance and to pay pension insurance for that time. And finally, perhaps even the most important part of the law is the third solution that is in it to stimulate the employment of firefighters. We want to help firefighters to maintain or find new employment, which is foreseen in this mechanism, to cover part of the employer's insurance and further tax incentives. All of these are, as we say, minimal costs, but they mean a great deal. They mean our will, our determination to say thanks to firefighters not only in words, but mainly in actions. These are actions, concrete actions, such as their concrete actions. They now carried several times for sale not only their time, their energy, but also their health, and their whole life. In some cases, one specifically was in Churches in Gorenjska a few years ago, unfortunately they wanted to help with the highest price, with their lives. In a case which is well known to all from this mandate, recently occurred when a fire occurred in Kemis, and because of negligence there were not timely warnings of how harmful substances were going, some of them would be likely to have lasting consequences. All of these are concrete evidence that it is justified, not only justified, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is imperative that we once and for all say sincere thanks to firefighters not only in words, as we always hear, but in actions. Today is an opportunity and in the SDS we will all vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u134	We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 28. (There were 34 votes in favour.)(against 28.) I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Defence Committee as its parent working body. I hereby conclude the 20th item of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the draft law on the functioning of the online platforms of the collaborative economy. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the functioning of collaborative online platforms is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 20. (For the vote was 23.)(against 20.) I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on the Economy as a working body. I hereby conclude the 21st item of the agenda. We're moving to 31. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the examination of the Proposal for an election to the judicial function of the higher court in the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of the Magi. Mojce Muha in judicial capacity at the higher court of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor on behalf of the Court of Justice to Judge Maja Rozman.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u135	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! On the invitation to tender for the appointment of a higher judge at the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia with the envisaged allocation to the Department of Public Finance, the Council of Justice elected mag this time. Mojca Mucha and she's proposing to the National Assembly for election. In 2017, due to the retirement of the judge who was assigned to the appointed section, one seat remained vacant. At the same time, in 2017, the Administrative Court recorded an increased caseload. The invitation to tender was opened by 7 candidates, one of whom withdrew the candidacy. The selection process, as usual, has also been carried out in several stages with the gradual elimination of candidates. On the basis of the tendering documents, the opinion of the President of the Administrative Court and the interviews carried out was assessed by the Court of Justice. Mojca Mucha, in its entirety, best meets the conditions laid down by the Judicial Service Act as necessary for the performance of judicial service in the position of a higher judge in the Public Finances Division of the Administrative Court. This is the judicial department, which specializes in matters relating to direct and indirect taxes and customs. Mag. Mojca Muha, born 1980, is a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. It stood out among the candidates both after the results of the study and the results of the legal examination carried out as an experience with work in the field of tax law. She graduated from the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana in 2005 with an average grade of 8.43 and an assessment of her degree in cum laude. The legal examination was carried out in June 2008, with an average score of 9. In 2016, she graduated from the Faculty of Law of the University of Maribor in the field of tax law. She started her career as a lawyer, first as a trainee and a lawyer, and since November 2009 she has been registered in the legal registry of the Lawyers' Chamber of Slovenia and acts as a lawyer. It deals primarily with economic matters and within this also with tax law and European Union law. In its final opinion, the President of the Administrative Court pointed out that she had a mag. Mojca Mucha is an appropriate expertise in the area for which the court seat is described. Mag. Mojca Mucha also had a very successful conversation with members of the Council of Justice. She presented herself as a sovereign and determined person, with very good verbal ability. It is therefore proposed by the Council of Justice to the National Assembly for election to a judicial function for the vacant seat of the higher court at the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u136	The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report to the Commission, I give the floor to the President, Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u137	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! The Commission's mandate-holder is at its 43rd session. 3. 2018 as a parent working body, considered the proposal to elect a higher court judge in the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia, held by the National Assembly of 20. 2. 2018 submitted by the Council of Justice. It follows from the proposal of the Council of Justice that the reason for the invitation to tender for the appointment of a senior judge in the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia was the retirement of a judge who was assigned to the Public Finance Department and the increased membership in 2017. The Council of Justice finds in the proposal that the candidate mag. Mojca Mucha stands out positively compared to other candidates in relation to the rich knowledge of economic law, in particular the tax law she acquired in the exercise of her legal profession. In view of the extremely successful conversation with the members of the Council of Justice, this concludes that the proposed candidate is the most appropriate candidate for the seat of Judge. The debate highlighted the problem of the number of judges and in this regard the assessment that, in view of the fall, we no longer need judges in the courts and that, within the judiciary, we should resolve the human resources deficit in some courts by redistributing judges from other courts. An appropriate system of progress of judges should also be established. External staff are welcome, but they should start their careers in the first stage and, on the basis of experience gained and positive assessments of their work, progress to higher judicial posts. The idea was also expressed that the candidate came from a law firm which had a major influence in the country and a significant social role, and there was doubt as to the relevance of the proposal of the Council in respect of the principle of impartiality of the trial. The mandate-holder committee shall propose to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 130 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 19(1) of the Judicial Service Act and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it shall adopt a decision electing mag as a judicial function. Mojca Mucha to the judicial seat of the higher court at the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u138	There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision, by which mag is elected to the judicial office of the higher court in the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Mojo Fly. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 38 votes in favour, 3 votes in favour. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We move to the examination of the Proposal for an election to the judicial office of the District Court of Justice at the District Court in Jesenica The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Tadej Rebric to the judicial office of the District Court of Justice at the District Court in Jesenice. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor on behalf of the Court of Justice to Judge Maja Rozman.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u139	On the invitation to tender for the free trial seat of the District Court of Justice in Jesenice, the Court of Justice elected Tadej Rebrico and proposed him to the National Assembly for election. The district courts of the Kranj District are staff-fed, while at the same time they are super-averagely burdened with cases. Statistics show that the fate of the cases in the District Courts in the context of the Court of Justice in recent years has not been controlled despite the fact that more cases have been resolved in the District Court than the average in the District Courts. The District Court in Jesenice is facing a prolonged absence of judges due to disease, and the retirement of a judge who worked mainly in the executive area was envisaged in 2017. Since the remaining district courts within the Kranj district are also heavily burdened and are dealing with longer hospital absences of judges, there is no possibility of prejudicing matters within the district. Eleven candidates have applied for the examination of the tender, of which 1 has withdrawn the application. On the basis of the tender documents, the opinion of the President of the District Court and the interviews held, the Council of Justice assessed that of the 11 candidates registered, Tadej Rebrica, in its entirety, best qualified to meet the conditions laid down in the Judicial Service Act as necessary for the performance of judicial service in the post of District Judge in the Executive Section. Candidate Tadej Rebrica, born 1981, is a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. He graduated from the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana in 2007 with an average rating of 8.23. He was defending his postgraduate work with a medal. The legal examination was carried out in 2010 with an average score of 8.28. At the time of the study, the Council of Justice found that Tadej Rebrica had already acquired a rich legal knowledge, which he was also building up through regular education. After his legal examination, he worked at the District Court in Ljubljana as a professional associate, where he is still employed in the executive department today. At the time of his 7-year job as a professional associate, he was thoroughly aware of the arrangements for the enforcement procedure. Within the framework of its work, it shall conduct its own enforcement procedures, decide on enforcement proposals and objections and other legal remedies and conduct certain complaints. He does the work accurately and reliably, solving the most difficult things he carefully examines. The performance assessments show that his knowledge of professional work in the executive department is exceptional. The candidate follows the case-law of domestic courts and the case-law of the European Court of Justice and is extremely familiar with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Its work and commitment are also expressed in additional work, as it has also been active in the field of improving the efficiency of the work of the judicial staff, in addition to its service obligations, both by preparing forms for the work of the judicial assistants and by participating in the work of the project team to improve the quality of the judiciary in the Supreme Court. Candidate Tadej Rebrica also had a very successful conversation with members of the Council of Justice. It confirmed, when personally presented and answered individual questions from members, that it had exceptional legal knowledge with emphasis on enforcement law, and it also demonstrated very good oral expressions. It is therefore proposed by the Council of Justice to the National Assembly for election to the judicial function of the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Jesenice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u140	The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a motion for a decision which elects Tadej Rebrica as a judge of the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Jesenice. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 1. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We move to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. In order to present the proposal, I give the floor to the President of the Commission, Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u141	Thank you very much again, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Members and Members! The Law on Radio Television of Slovenia in Article 26, paragraph 1, provides, inter alia, that RTV Slovenia shall have a supervisory board comprising 11 members, of which the National Assembly appoints 5 members, taking into account the representation of political parties in the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 26, paragraph 7, of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia, a member who has resigned shall be replaced by the procedure provided for the replacement of members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council. Article 18, paragraph 18, of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia provides that a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council shall be replaced by the procedure envisaged for the appointment or election of members of the Programme Council. On 14 December 2017, the National Assembly appointed five members of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board, one of whom terminated his mandate as a result of his resignation. At its 38th meeting, on 15 February 2018, the National Assembly took note of the decision to terminate the mandate of the Member of the Supervisory Board of the RTV Slovenia. On 16 February 2018, on the basis of a decision taken by the 42nd meeting of the Commission, the mandate-holders invited the members of the group to submit to it, by 28 February 2018, proposals by candidates for a new member or member of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board to be appointed for the remainder of the term of office. She received two proposals within the time limit, namely the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, which was proposed as a member by Janez Čadež and the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group, which proposed Lucija Šikovec Ušaj as a member. At its 43rd meeting, on 15 March 2018, on the basis of Article 36 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Commission appointed a candidate as a member of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia, proposing that Janez Čadež be appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia for the period until the end of the term of office of the members appointed by a decision appointing five members of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia of 14 December 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u142	There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling for a member of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board until the end of the term of office of members appointed by a decision appointing five members of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board of 14 December 2017, Janez Čadež. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present and 43 votes against 13. (The vote was 43.)(against 13.) I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude the 31st item of the agenda. I conclude the 39th meeting of the National Assembly. Since this is the last regular session in this reference, I thank everyone for the work that has been done. Professional staff and staff in the services of the National Assembly also for all support and patience, as well as Members and Members to contribute to the political culture of parliamentaryism in the Republic of Slovenia.
