ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Izredna-56.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! With the opening of the 56th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Ivan Škodnik, Mag. Dušan Verbich, mag. Branislav Rajić, Dr. Franc Trček, Mr. Janez Janša and Matjaž Hanžek. I invited Mr Borut Pahor, President of the Republic of Slovenia, and representatives of the Government who are engaged in ongoing business. All present, welcome! We move to a vote on the agenda. He proposed to the Assembly that today's meeting should be held on the agenda as requested. Please check the functioning of the voting devices. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, all of whom voted in favour. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 56th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, the president of the Republic of Slovenia was informed that he would not submit a candidate for the presidency of the government to the national assembly. Mr Borut Pahor, President of the Republic, wrote to me by letter of 21. 3. 2018 has notified that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first paragraph of Article 225 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it will not propose to the National Assembly a candidate for Prime Minister and requests that the National Assembly be informed at the meeting. I invite Mr Borut Pahor, President of the Republic of Slovenia, to join us in the Chamber. I ask Mr Borut Pahor, President of the Republic of Slovenia, to give us an oral explanation of his decision, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 224 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Izredna-56.ana.u2	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the High Council! Mr President, on 20 March this year, you informed me that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia had informed the Prime Minister of the Government of Dr Miroslav Cerar that it had resigned from office as Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly found that Dr Miroslav Cerar had ceased to serve as Prime Minister of the Government, thereby also ending the functions of Ministers and Ministers. In accordance with Article 111 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, I held talks with the leaders of the parliamentary groups in the middle of the previous week. Today, I am also officially informing the National Assembly that I am not proposing a candidate for Prime Minister. In the circumstances in which the mandate is still to expire to the current Assembly, the effort to elect the Prime Minister for such a short period of time is neither meaningful nor necessary in my opinion. I think it's best to call early elections. Mr President, after the recent resignation of the Prime Minister, the government will lead to elections with limited powers. It's not the same as whether the government has full powers or not. As a result of our resignation, we have, in any case, the law of early elections. Of course, with regard to the call for elections, I am obliged to wait until the deadline is reached when ten Members or a parliamentary group may decide to propose a candidate for Prime Minister. This I have sent you, Mr President, in a letter you received a few days ago, and today, with a briefing from the National Assembly, the deadline for qualified candidates, or Members or leaders of parliamentary groups with Members, to submit any nominations for Prime Minister. I have said my position on futility and uselessness, but qualified proponents have the option of making a different decision after the stop. In this sense, I cannot say definitively today what I am going to do except to say the following for the sake of the good cooperation of the National Assembly and my office. If, within the next 14 days, no one qualified to apply for a Prime Minister or Prime Minister, and after 16 days, the National Assembly will be informed of this situation, I expect that you, the President, will inform me by letter on 13 April this year that qualified candidates have not proposed a candidate for Prime Minister. If so, then the next day, Saturday, 14 April 2018, I will sign a decree on the call for early elections. I have done good, quality interviews with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, and on this occasion I thank you for these thoughts, experiences, proposals. There have been several different proposals regarding my decision on the date of the call for early elections. By 14 April, when I sign, I suppose, unless there are any other developments, a decree on the call for early elections, I will continue, honourable Members and Members, Mr President, the leaders of the parliamentary groups, together with you to determine whether, according to several different parameters, it is good to call the early elections on 27 May or 3 June. May 20th, which proved to be the first possible date, because of the procedures that have been followed until this notification of my notice, it is not possible. The last possible deadline is June 10th. Given that the state needs a government with full powers, about 130 days, 135 days will have time without a government with full powers. In these circumstances, this is not much time. We need a government that can make full decisions. If we are to conclude that, for the sake of the normal expected division of work on the Constitutional Commission and constitutional law, if the conditions for the normal completion of the work of the investigative commissions are met, then I have no problem signing the electoral decree on 27 May. If we assess that perhaps one week is important from this point of view, I would decide for June 3rd. So I will remain, Mr President, if you agree with you, with the leaders of the parliamentary groups in contact, as good as we have maintained it so far, until 13 April, when I suppose you will inform me that there is no candidate, I will therefore consult with you whether the right date is useful, the best date on 27 May or 3 June. I would like to say one more thing, because there are some questions, particularly in the public, about the call for early elections and the call for a re-election, I have no authority on the second issue. With regard to the call for a new referendum, all powers shall be vested in the State Election Commission. So there is nothing I can do about it that could have contributed to the fact that a referendum and elections would have been held on the same day. However, each constitutional entity must make its decisions in accordance with the law and the Constitution. Mr President, I have therefore informed you that, due to a short period of time, I am not proposing a new candidate for Prime Minister until the end of the otherwise deadline. If the Members make a different decision, you will inform me, or I expect your announcement on April 13th, 14, on Saturday, I will sign a decree on the dissolution of Parliament and the early elections. Will it be May 27th or May 3rd? June, and I'll consult with you. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-27-SDZ7-Izredna-56.ana.u3	I thank the President of the Republic, Mr Borut Pahor, for his words. In this regard, I note that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 11 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 112 and 227 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, is informed of the following: “The National Assembly notes that the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor informed the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 111(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 225(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he would not propose a candidate for Prime Minister. The period referred to in Article 111, paragraph 3, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in which candidates for Prime Minister may be proposed, shall begin on 28 March 2018 and shall expire on 10 April 2018." I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda and also the 56th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I'm informing you that the 39th meeting of the National Assembly will continue in 15 minutes, that's 10 a.m.
