ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting with the 38th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Ms. Marinka Levičar, Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer from 16:00 to 19:00, Mrs. Janja Slug from 13:00 to 17:00, Mrs. Andreja Potočnik, Mrs. Urška Ban, Mrs. Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Dr. Jasna Murgel, Mrs. Ludmila Novak from 15:00 to 18:00, Mrs. Suzana Lepi Šimenko, Mr. Zvonko Lah, Mr. Tomaž Gantar, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, Mr. Jernej Vrtovac, Mr. Peter Vilfan, Mr. Tomaž Lisec, Mr. Matjaž Hanžek until 14:00, Dr. László Göncz until 14:00, Dr. Milan Brglez until 11:00, Dr. Franc Runk by 11:00, mag. Bojan Krajnc by 1 p.m., Dr Mitja Horvat from 1.30 p.m. to 4.30 p.m., Mr. Marko Ferluga, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar from 3 p.m. and Mr. Franc Jurša from 11 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! / advertising from the hall/ Here you go, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u2	Just one question. Vice President, you've been listing for almost five minutes who's all excused. Are we going to be done all day? Just a procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u3	Yes, according to the Rules of Procedure. We will, of course, be asking questions about the conclusion of the vote. Thank you very much. We're moving on to 15. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Public Procurement Act under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 39 Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Janjo Slug. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the President, if you will excuse me, to the representative of the proposer, Mrs Janji Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The Public Procurement Act is a basic law which was adopted in April 2016. This law provides that the contracting authority may include different social criteria in the procurement procedure, in addition to the minimum price criterion. However, in practice, in these almost two years, it has been shown that some contracting authorities as the only criterion still state the lowest price. We have also repeatedly witnessed in practice that, even though the contracting authority has identified evident breaches of the law by the contracting authority, this does not mean that the measure is also appropriate. There are a number of cases of employers who gain jobs at the expense of a later violation of workers' rights. Therefore, in the SMC Group, we have decided to table a proposal for a new Public Procurement Act, which introduces the necessary legal frameworks so that these abuses will no longer occur in order to achieve socially responsible public procurement and incorporate the social aspect into the criteria. We believe that the guiding principle of the Public Procurement and Public Procurement Act should be to respect the provisions of social and labour law in general. One key change in this proposal is that the social clause is replaced by the application of the so-called diversified condition, for which we clearly determine the circumstances in which it is applied. It is thus clear when the contract expires. The first condition is fulfilled in the event of the contracting authority's being informed of the fact that the court, by a judicial decision, has found a breach of labour, environmental or social legislation by the contractor or by its subcontractor. So we're talking about a court-martial. Or where the contracting authority is aware that the competent national authority has found at least two infringements at the time of implementation of the contract with the contractor or its subcontractor, and has also imposed a fine for those two infringements. Infringements relating to payment for work, as has been the case so far, are also added to violations relating to working hours, rests, civil law contracts, despite the existence of elements of working relationship or in relation to employment in black. However, the second element to be met for the fulfilment of the divorce clause is that, from the contracting authority’s knowledge of the breach and until the contract is completed, at least six months before such a divorce clause makes sense. The proposal for the amendment also adds a new Article 67a, which provides for special arrangements for cases of procurement in labour intensive services that have proved to be the most problematic. This shall introduce a semi-annual verification of the mandatory conditions for the exclusion of the contractor in all cases of public contracts concluded for a period of at least one year. The services for which this is checked shall be included in this Article and shall be clearly defined by the CPV code. There are 82 services in the areas of construction, service, cleaning, security and road transport, these are the most critical services. It is therefore part of the situations already considered by the law to be among the mandatory grounds for excluding economic operators, namely, those checks relating to the payment of social and tax obligations, the offences committed in respect of payment for work, working hours, rest, the performance of work under civil law contracts, despite the existence of elements of employment or black employment and the inclusion in the register of economic operators with negative references. To this end, the law also provides for the upgrading of the e-File system, through which compliance with these conditions will be verified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Baby Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Secretary of State, very nice greeting! The Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 45th meeting, on 31 December. 1. 2018 as a working body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members with the first signed Janjo Slug. In the course of the course of business, the amendments were tabled by the Levica Group on Articles 2, 5 and 7 and by the SMC and SD Group on Articles 1, 4 and 8. In a complementary explanation for the articles, the representative of the proposers said that the public sector must advocate the achievement of the highest standards for the protection of human rights and thus the protection of workers' rights. There must also be a responsible public procurement and social responsibility must be included in the tenders. It stressed that the practice at that time showed that many public procurements in practice still take into account the lowest price as the only criterion, and also contracting authorities do not follow the recommendations of the Ministry of Public Administration, which mentions taking social and social aspects into account in public procurement as an integral part of it. The bill introduces a guardian that the practice of violating the rights of workers in public procurement would no longer arise. She said that one of the key amendments introduced by the draft law was the replacement of the social clause with a divorcing condition and that the divorce clause was clearly defined when it was applied. The first element to be met is the fact that the contracting authority is aware of the fact that the court has found a breach of labour, environmental and social legislation by the contractor or its subcontractor. However, the second element to be fulfilled is that there is at least six months from the contracting authority’s notification of the breach to the expiry of the current contract. It stated that one of the indirect effects that the proposed law would have is an increase in payment discipline between operators and subcontractors. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration said that the Government supports the proposal for a law, since the proposed regulation follows one of the fundamental principles of the current Public Procurement Act, namely the obligation to respect labour, social and environmental legislation. He added that the proposed regulation strengthens socially responsible public procurement, setting an example for the private sector. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the SMC and SD members of Parliament had drafted the amendments following the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. The representative of the Council of State said that the Commission supported and agreed that further efforts were still necessary for the State authorities to be able to verify, in the procurement procedures and during the implementation of the contracts of selected operators and subcontractors, that the selected service providers complied with all the labour law, social and environmental rules. The representative of the workshop welcomed the guidance of the draft law and pointed out that there would be a lot more to be done in this area. In the discussion, the representative stressed that the draft law would ensure respect for the rights of workers to the greatest extent possible and would support the warnings of the workshop, as well as agreed with the proposal by the amendment of the left delegation to Article 7, since she felt that it was necessary to submit existing contracts in this way. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 1, 4 and 8 of the SMC, SD and the amendment of the left-wing Group to Article 7. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u7	Thank you very much. For reasons of opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr. Nejc Bezovar, State Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u8	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The government supports the bill. The proposed regulation follows, as already mentioned, one of the fundamental principles of the law, namely respect for labour, social and environmental legislation. The draft law also regulates the upgrading of the e-File, thus making the burden on contracting entities for additional work in terms of verification of operators minimal. The proposed regulation also strengthens social and responsible public procurement. The government supports the proposal because this will also set an example for the public sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Saša Tabakovic will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. A new Public Procurement Act was adopted in November 2015, which provided for simplification, greater flexibility and efficiency of public procurement on the basis of new European Union procurement legislation and identified shortcomings. One of the amendments introduced by the Public Procurement Act is the new rules that make it easier for contracting entities to apply different aspects of environmental policy, social inclusion and innovation. In doing so, it should be stressed that the social dimension does not only include social inclusion but also focuses on respect for the rights arising from the legislation in force. The law includes a so-called horizontal clause requiring compliance with obligations under applicable environmental, social and labour law of the European Union, the rules of the Member States, collective agreements and international law. This means that an entity which does not fulfil certain obligations may be excluded from the procurement procedure. This has made public procurement an important part of the environmental and social strategy. In accordance with the current arrangements, the economic operator must submit to the contracting authority a single European contract award document or so-called ESPD form representing an official declaration by the economic operator that there are no grounds for exclusion and that it fulfils the conditions required for cooperation. Therefore, at this point, economic operators shall demonstrate that they are not in breach of the obligations laid down in the applicable environmental, social and labour regulations. In practice, however, it has proved to be a major problem that contracting authorities or contracting entities are no longer informed after the contract has been signed about the operation of the service provider. This means that the contracting authority relies on the data derived from the EPSD form. In fact, the contractor can be a large tax debtor and the contracting authority still uses its services. Given that public authorities in Europe use around 17% of gross domestic product in the context of public procurement, it is only right that special attention is paid to contracting authorities or their business even after signing the contract. Although the current law contains a social clause, in practice there is still a violation of workers' labour and social rights. In the media, we have repeatedly witnessed situations where a cleaning service provider in a public institution has violated its employees' rights under labour law, but the contracting authority has not acted on them at all. The key amendment envisaged by the new Public Procurement Act, which we are considering today, is a more precise regulation of the social clause, and further for 82 labour-intensive services such as catering, cleaning, protection, introduces a semi-annual verification of the mandatory conditions for the exclusion of the contracting authority. However, additional social criteria are also introduced, which the contracting authority must always take into account when ordering services identified in the draft law as critical labour intensive services. We support the proposal of the Law in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. The fact is that public authorities are ordering a number of services through public contracts, but unfortunately it has turned out that some operators, once they have concluded the deal, are reviving the rights of workers who are subject to the applicable legislation. Furthermore, the contracting authority was not obliged to verify, after the conclusion of the contract, that this economic operator still met all the conditions it had fulfilled at the time of the conclusion of the contract at the time of the contract. We are confident that the proposed changes will produce positive results, although the changes themselves do not provide direct protection of workers' rights, but they do affect whether it pays someone to violate the rights of workers if they risk losing their jobs. As we say, we will support the bill in the SMC Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Ms Nada Brinovšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u12	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone in the hall! The proposal for amendments to the Public Procurement Act stated in the introductory explanation that it was found that, in the context of public procurement, public authorities also cooperate with operators who do not pay their workers and do not comply with their obligations under labour law, and also adds that the proposed solution to this amendment to the law is not ideal. Well, with this addition, we very much agree with the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. By amending this law, the proposer wants to ensure that labour law is respected as much as possible, and the key change in the amendment is that the social clause replaces the so-called divorce clause. This condition shall apply where the contracting authority is aware of the fact that the court has legally established that the contractor or subcontractor is in breach of labour, environmental or social law and that the second condition is possible in the event that it is more than 6 months before the end of the contract. The amendment also lays down the contracting authority's obligation to verify every 6 months after the conclusion of the contract that the contractor or its subcontractor is not in any of the situations referred to in the first or second case mentioned earlier. According to the new contract, the contracting authority must award the contract in such a way as to collect the most economically advantageous tenderer, taking into account socially responsible public procurement. The criteria must also necessarily include social elements that follow the principle of decent work – which follow the principle of decent work, the applicant wrote. However, the proposed amendments to the Public Procurement Act deserve decent work only by those who have received work on the basis of a contract in the field of service activities. The applicant therefore considers that the amendments to this law should apply only to those labour intensive services which have proven to be the most problematic on the basis of experience. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we ask what the proposer had in mind when he wrote "on the basis of experience". We are also wondering whether the applicant has done any analysis. Did he come to this information solely on the basis of rumors? We can't get past the fact that in this case it's a division again, I'll say, first- and second-class. Why? Amendments to the Public Procurement Act only apply to service activities. What about the construction contracts? These orders are not subject to this law or to this amendment. If I were to say, as the proposaler put it, “on the basis of experience”, I hope to say that there are certainly several cases of violations of public procurement legislation in the field of construction works. This is about heavy physical workers who work all day, in the sun, in the cold, in the wind and in the rain, and at the end of the month they receive a boar payment for their work or not. But these workers are not subject to the amendment of this law. I wonder why you're making a difference in the coalition again. Where labour legislation is in breach, this should apply to all employees of the operators chosen by the contracting authority on the basis of a contract, without exception. This is why we will not support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, and of course we will not oppose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u14	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, everyone's welcome! The bill we have on the parliamentary benches primarily strengthens social responsibility. By adopting it, we can also expect an increase in payment discipline. The proposal introduces special arrangements for those cases of public procurement involving labour-intensive services, namely those which have proved to be the most problematic in practice. A semi-annual mandatory verification of the conditions for the exclusion of the operator shall be introduced. This is mainly the area of construction, security, service, road transport and cleaning. As has already been said, the proposal for amendments and additions arose on the basis of warnings and observed problems which have proved to be practical. Examples show that in the context of public procurement, public authorities also cooperate with operators who do not pay their workers and do not meet all obligations under labour law. Regrettably, despite the Public Procurement Act adopted in 2016 in procurement proceedings, the choice still predominates on the basis of the lowest price. The contracting authority shall not verify, after signature of the contract, that the contractor and subcontractors comply with the labour law. According to the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce for the past year, the ratio between the number of selected offers on the basis of the criterion is the lowest price or the most economically advantageous offer in Slovenia about 80 : 20 and the European ratio is about 70 : 30 in favour of the most economically advantageous offer. So I can summarise that we are still lagging behind Europe. The proposal we are considering today seeks to achieve respect for labour law. The essential novelty is the introduction of a divorce clause where the court has found legally that the contractor or subcontractor is in breach of labour, environmental or social law, or when the contracting authority is aware that the competent national authority has found at least two infringements of the rules and has imposed a fine on them operators. This is a matter of infringements relating to payment of work, violations relating to working time and rest, and black work. We support this news in the Desus Group. In Slovenia we spend around €3.7 billion per year on public procurement, which is about 10% of Slovenia's gross social product. For 25 years, however, we have been facing similar problems, so in the Desus Group we welcome any change in the field of public procurement, which we are addressing the irregularities and errors highlighted by the practice, and the changes that would contribute to a more effective public procurement process. A big step in the right direction was taken, as already said, 2016. In any case, the amendments we are adopting today go in the right direction, so we will support them in the Desus Group. We also believe in the Desus Group that, among other things, there is a need to change the level of customer awareness in order to have the taxpayer's money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! This time, too, we have before us a new law that does not bring, unfortunately, any added value. The area of public procurement, despite the emphasis on the socially responsible aspect, remains large in the management of public money. As a result of such, merely beautiful changes to the law, which sound good, there will certainly be no less public procurement in practice, reported by the media all the time, such as ordering past the law or searching for circuits, how to execute a contract at the lowest price or even without a call for tender, such as in UKC Ljubljana. Many subcontractors will also continue to be unpaid, which we keep reminding in Novi Slovenija. Unfortunately, payment non-discipline in Slovenia is a major problem, so it is our duty to protect weaker customers in procurement procedures. In this case, it is mainly small and micro-enterprises and independent entrepreneurs who are considered to be the backbone of our economy. In addition to pursuing the objective of transparency and the cost-effectiveness of public spending, the Public Procurement Act, as one of the most important systemic laws, must also provide adequate protection and protection for the parties. Leaving regulation of this area to contractual freedom alone is a solution that can be appropriate for countries with advanced democracy, regulated payment discipline and effective justice, and therefore a high level of legal certainty. We do not reach this level in Slovenia. In Novi Slovenije, when adopting the new Public Procurement Act 3 we warned that the actual payment of subcontractors should not be left to the will or contractual relationship between the contractor and the subcontractor. With the amendments we have tried to enforce this legal commitment, we have subsequently tabled a proposal for amendments and amendments to this law for the same reason. Today, the law in this regard is completely the same, so it does not provide the legal basis for the compulsory direct payment of subcontractors by the contracting authority. The Public Procurement Act 3 thus significantly deteriorated the position of subcontractors compared to the previous Public Procurement Act 2. By 2010, the new law had already established a compulsory direct payment by the contracting authority of subcontractors. At that time, the situation in the field of payment discipline in our country improved. The plaza of bankruptcys of small companies and the cessation of the management of the activities of independent entrepreneurs was stopped. It seems that the current government has not recognized progress in this regard. New Slovenia - Christian Democrats we also proposed that the main contractor should perform at least 20% of the public procurement with its own capacities. The main contractors now appear in large cases companies that do not have their own assets or employees, but are only intermediaries in these transactions. The law still allows for participation in public procurement procedures also for operators who do not have their capacity to carry out public procurement. When such an operator enters insolvency, subcontractors remain unpaid, often for independent entrepreneurs, micro and small enterprises that are in fact only subcontractors in public procurement procedures, their failure often means their failure. This means, at the same time, the termination of the employment of employees with such subcontractors. Today's amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act therefore do not bring about urgent changes, but leave a number of dilemmas regarding enforcement in practice, in particular with regard to 82 taxive services listed by critically intensive industries, where contracting authorities should check every six months for possible infringements of operators. This points to the failure of the competent national authorities to do so. In short, it is again about solving problems with the wrong side. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that until the law protects subcontractors better and as long as it is possible to award public contracts according to the only criterion of the lowest price – this is particularly true for construction, services and goods involving installation or installation – we cannot talk about improving this area. According to the above, the bill cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to repeat in this position some of the thoughts expressed when adopting the new Public Procurement Act 2016 relating to public procurement and savings. When we constantly talk about public sector savings and reserve search, we constantly find that we are still looking for and finding financial reserves in the public sector in the field of public procurement. This is especially true when it comes to millions of transactions and when orders become opaque. This lack of transparency is particularly evident in several thousand issued orders for the purchase of medical and other material in UKC Ljubljana, this is only one medical centre. In doing so, we are rightly asked how many of the lost euro insurers have leaked into the pockets of individuals, while we constantly threaten insurance and potential patients with what they will have to pay, pay and so on. In the past, the flow of public money through public procurement has increased. They also increased their appetites for public money. Unfortunately, however, this competition has resulted in the loss of virtually all of us, in all areas of the public sector, with the exception of some individuals. The solutions set out in this proposal for the amendment follow the basic principles of public procurement, but the role of the public sector in the implementation of public procurement and in the implementation and protection of human rights and workers' rights is somewhat more highlighted. Therefore, the public sector must act responsibly in the implementation of public procurement in the sense of socially responsible public procurement. Socially responsible aspects of public procurement and new rules also include provisions giving the contracting authority the possibility of excluding economic operators who violate certain rules or obligations. It is true, however, that this contracting authority, state authorities, the public sector is subject to an additional obligation. Therefore, the activities of the contracting authority shall continue following the award of the contract. This is supposed to be reflected in half-yearly verifications of the performance of contractual obligations and 82 services. Given the number of these, I wouldn't mention them. We stress that the law on paper alone, written with the best solutions, will not produce positive results, more energy will have to be invested in the education of those who are preparing public contracts and will also follow this proposal to verify the implementation of the contract or contract obligations. Of course, it is also on the part of contractors and subcontractors to inform them of irregularities as soon as possible and to address irregularities as soon as possible. This, however, prevents damage to businesses, workers and, last but not least, the country and its inhabitants. Especially now, with the return of the investment cycle, more attention will have to be paid to the appetites of individuals who could get more from this title than is necessary. We believe that any change that leads to improvements in public procurement procedures, legal protection of workers, transparency of procedures should be supported and could be listed. That is why we will support the proposed amendment to the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u20	Thank you, Vice President, a nice greeting to everyone! We will support amendments to the Public Procurement Act in Levika. The amendments are essentially identical to those proposed in the form of amendments at the time of the adoption of the Third Public Procurement Act. At that time, we warned that, while regulation is a step in the right direction, it is much too loose. All those solutions that went towards the full exclusion of companies that violated labour, environmental and social legislation and direct payments of subcontractors, the deviation from the price as the only criterion for mandatory inclusion of additional criteria and could also be listed, were then rejected by the coalition. There was absolutely no interest in improving the arrangements at that time. Now, a few months before the elections, the coalition only found that the regulation on the protection of workers' rights was inappropriate and, consequently, that we were right in Levica. That there is an urgent need to further protect the rights of workers and, above all, to prevent the exploitation of employers' practices, and that the area of public procurement is the first place where the state has to make order. An undertaking that exploits workers and violates labour and social law cannot and must not be a contractor of public procurement. And this law could already be laid down in November 2015. Not only that, if our amendments were adopted at that time, would the provisions be better than those that we are considering today. Why? The provision which obliges the contracting authority to respect labour and social legislation already exists today and the problem is that we have no control. Today's proposal therefore introduces a mandatory periodic review of public procurement operators. If the contractor is found to be in breach of labour or social law, i.e. simply stated workers' rights, the contracting authority will terminate the contract. However, the weakness of the proposed regulation is shown in the fact that this periodic review will not be carried out for all public contracts but only for part of the public procurement of certain services. We can agree that this is also better than nothing, but the arrangement, which offers protection only to some workers, makes no sense to us. The worker who works in the construction site and the worker who cleans the premises are equally important to us, of course, should be equally protected. Infringement of workers' rights is unacceptable regardless of where these infringements are actually taking place. For this reason, we have proposed an amendment on the Committee in Levica, which would equally protect the rights of all workers and workers, regardless of their professions. Unfortunately, the amendment was not supported and the argument for opposition was simply pointless. It was that periodic verification of the respect of workers' rights for all public contracts, services and construction would mean – yes, too much work for the Ministry! Of course, such an argument is unacceptable to us, and the contract for the execution of the contract must already provide that it should be waived in the event of infringements of the labour rights, although only in the case of public contracts for certain services will the fulfilment of this condition be checked. Contractors of other services and, above all, of course, of construction will obviously be able to continue to practice exploitative practices because control is gone and, of course, it will not. All we have managed to do on the committee in Levica is that this periodic review will also be carried out for contracts already concluded, i.e. for existing ones. No matter what we say, we will support the proposal in Levica, even though we believe it could be much better. Our amendment, which allows the law to be enforced in three months and not just seven months from now, is a little more in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We turn to the debate on the Article and the amendment tabled on 19 February 2018. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Please sign up. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u22	Thanks again. As it has been said, when the Public Procurement Act number three was passed, we in Levica warned that the arrangement, although it means somewhat slightly in the right direction, but that it is much too loose and that in practice it is unlikely to change much. All those solutions that went towards excluding companies that were in breach of labour, environmental and social legislation could have been resolved by the direct payment of subcontractors, and what I had already mentioned could have been resolved by that time. We have proposed all of this through amendments, in particular that the regulation be improved in such a way that the present word “may” be deleted too often. The law currently in force too often uses the word “may” and allows things to not happen then, although things could or should have been better said. The idea may be that right before the elections this is changing and that in some ways things are moving in a better direction, but I will not argue about this aspect. I insist, however, that this is a small step in order to make this arrangement much better. For example, with the amendments we proposed in Levica on the committee, we could solve three things or two additional things — one was fortunately accepted. The first was that periodic verification of compliance with the conditions is introduced for all works contracts and certain services or services, and not only for certain services. This would significantly extend this verification cycle. We know that violations are occurring everywhere, not only in certain services, but also in construction work, and often also in exploitation stories, or, if you want, in non-compliance with labour legislation, they occur mainly in these areas. With another amendment, we have proposed that this specifically listed public contracts, which are in law, should also provide for mandatory compliance with the social criteria, which would be a step in an even better law and, of course, the periodic review already mentioned also for contracts already concluded, which were fortunately adopted. If I go back to this argument put forward by the Ministry in particular with regard to the extension of areas also to construction services and all services. The Ministry's argument was that this would mean too much work for the Ministry. Because of this argument, we will now get a slightly better regulation, but it will only be better for some workers and workers; that is, those specifically mentioned in the bill, that is, for certain services. However, there will still be violations of the rights of workers in the construction site; for example, they may continue and will not be under such supervision or under such scrutiny as they might otherwise have had the possibility of having this mandatory verification in these areas. Thus, companies already using exploitation practices that do not pay wages, regresses, social contributions and otherwise violate labour rights – this should be a communication from this law and, of course, the purpose of our amendment – should be excluded from any public contract or contract with the State. As I have already said, there is a positive aspect, however, that we will also introduce this periodic verification for the contracts already concluded, as proposed by the amendment in Levica, because the original proposal envisaged these periodic reviews only for contracts to be concluded after the law has been enforced. However, I think it makes sense that this is being introduced for contracts already concluded, because in fact there are already all the conditions for this, because these contracts already have to contain the provisions on when such contracts can be terminated and this would be taken into account. We have proposed another amendment for the meeting of the assembly, as we say, by Article 8. It is a matter of speeding up the detection or detection of these abuses. The proposal stipulates that the law will be enforced within 7 months, which seems to us to be an unacceptable long period. All the conditions that the contracting authorities have to meet must already be listed in the contracts concluded and if the ministries were to carry out their work, in particular supervisory, they would already be able to terminate a wide range of contracts with companies that violate workers' rights, environmental standards and the like. Since supervision is on foot, this law introduces this mandatory periodic verification. I don't think there's any valid argument that this would start in seven months and not in three months, as we suggest. So I would like you to consider that this deadline is shorter, that we should give it to 3 months and that at least some of the good things that this law brings will come into force much earlier and, of course, we will also provide a little more social and environmental protection for workers, for the environment and also sanction the relevant companies that violate these rights in these areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please sign up. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u24	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. When we talk about public procurement and respect for employees who then carry out this public contract, this law is, of course, one of the most welcome and necessary solutions. Of course, it also raises the question of how, in practice, this will again be controlled, implemented, but the purpose of the law is true and, of course, I also support it. We should certainly take a step further and make it very clear that no procurement involving state or municipal funds and abuses can be subject to obsolescence. At that point, I think that the responsibility to act in public procurement would be completely changed, and one of the following tasks is to legislate or, if you want, also enter into the Constitution if it is necessary that no matter relating to corruption and is linked to state or municipal money is obsolete. That would be a very clear message. Otherwise, a model such as, say, has been and has been in force in Austria for a number of years as soon as possible; the lowest price criterion is the criterion that actually causes corruption and which also causes problems mainly for employees. For when costs are reduced, of course, they try to reduce precisely at the expense of those who are either on the site or are doing individual work. It is therefore essential that the criterion be introduced that the contracting authority publish the price set by the designers, which is reflected in the project itself, the description of the works and the deviation from that price 20 % up or 20 % down from the tendering process is a criterion because those offers are immediately rejected. This eliminates those dumped lowest bids that usually bring great problems then, but, of course, you also exclude those who obviously wanted to take an uncritical approach to investment. This is one of the criteria that is widely known, and I know that even two, three or so years ago, even six years ago, the Austrian ambassador passed a law on the public procurement of the Republic of Austria. And the government has it. I would also expect that the proposals put in place, which are already in practice, will also be taken into account in Slovenia. At that time, many problems, many dilemmas, what exactly will be done in Slovenia to reduce corruption. Because corruption is causing us to lose a lot of money and, of course, we are in trouble again and again. In addition, at least these two, which I have mentioned, will need to be taken; so that things do not get old, and that we also make a significantly more appropriate Public Procurement Act, which allows the delivery of works in a way that monitors quality, including an appropriate skilled workforce, to do so, and this is what needs to be improved in fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Servant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Let me say that, at the time of the creation of this text, we have moved very much into a variety of coordinations, perhaps not so much with the ministry as with the Labour Advisory Office. The workshop was also the one that gave these initiatives, which has been constructively involved at all times in the drafting of this text, and with which we eventually agreed on what it meant to be the biggest step forward in this text. Of course, I can agree here that the proposal may not be complete, but I believe that, given what has been shown in two years of practice, it represents a very big step forward. My favorite response is when Mr. Horvat mentioned these subcontractors. Of course, subcontractors are also involved in this diversified condition; therefore, obligations to their employees must be settled in this text with both contractors and subcontractors. I therefore expect another effect; i.e., the contractor is the one with whom the contract will be terminated if its subcontractors do not comply with their obligations. It means that, as a result, as an additional effect I expect, I realistically expect operators to make sure that liabilities to subcontractors are settled on their part as well, because they will also be checked by subcontractors, as I said. However, I must say that in preparing this proposal we have obtained very precise figures from the practice of what is happening on the ground. Let us not just talk about the fact that these violations are increasing and that there are more and more such workers in public procurement, let me point out once again: my view is that public money is the money that has to be spent in order not to pay someone who violates the rights of workers who violate the labour law. This is the most important aspect. By the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, I have here information for the entire year 2017, where 19 thousand 559 views of the criminal record were made on their part. 19 thousand 559 in one year! And the inspection says that in 14 of these 19 thousand 559 cases, the subject was one who did not meet the legal condition. If we're going to calculate this percentage right now, that's 0.0007%. I don't want to minimize the infringements on these workers involved here, not by any means, but I want us not to communicate that I don't know what percentage of this is within the entire public procurement. Within these cases, we have looked closely at what services are the ones most frequently violated here, and these are the services we have been trying to reach here. Let me point out once again that Article 67a also allows the contracting authority to include it, regardless of whether a clause is imposed on his service. Thus, we do not prohibit any service, for any activity, for any work, but the contracting authority would not include this clause in itself. Because even at this point in time when certain things already exist, we have seen that because the law does not force the contracting authority to immediately dissolve the contract, in fact, I will say, that fear of the action, if the contracting authority did so, is a decisive reason why the contracting authorities do not decide to terminate the contract at this point. This is a decisive factor, which is now largely eliminated by this new text in my opinion. Of course, verification remains at the time of the conclusion of the contract for purely all contracts, regardless of what the contract is concluded. In fact, when the contract is concluded, the largest proportion of the infringements shall also be detected. This additional check after half a year means only some addition to what already exists; none of what already exists is said to be terminated by this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Every honest work requires a fair payment, and this issue of public procurement is very difficult in Slovenia. We are constantly reminded of this by our citizens, who have poor experience with it either as employers or as subcontractors or as citizens. Unfortunately, however, most corruption occurs in institutions, in state institutions, in public institutions with public money. We keep reminding you about this in New Slovenia. Although I will support this amendment to resolve these issues as soon as possible, in three months I prefer it to seven months, but I think that we have gone to the wrong end of the problem. But now the contracting authorities will check whether the employer or the contractors pay all their obligations? I think that's the job of the state. And I can't imagine how things are going to happen, how the contracting authorities are actually going to check all this out, how the works are going to stop and so on and so on and so forth. We hear many times that in Austria, if the employer does not immediately pay all his obligations to the workers, then he can close the company. And we're doing some circuits around here again, and I don't think they're going to solve this problem properly. It is strange and unusual that such a large company as UKC Ljubljana can carry out public procurements beyond the law. It's amazing, because we all know that millions of dollars are going around there, millions of dollars of money, which, in health care, is very little, and here, unfortunately, a lot of people feed on that money. That is why the issue of public procurement is really hampered, but I do not believe that this law will adequately address it. Of course, we hear debates against the private sector all the time and the public sector is being magnified, but it is in the public sector that our money is being spent inattentively, and every government is finding that the media are often doing tables on who got some public orders, or on the left or right, depending on the government. So I don't think any law will solve this properly, but it's about respecting the economy, the common sense of agriculture, honesty, responsible behaviour. All of these have provided the right assurance that public money is also being used fairly. And of course, workers are also fairly paid for what they do, regardless of the sector in which someone does his job. For example, one such banal example of public procurement is school food. Although some improvements have been made lately, it is illogical to hear that Egyptian potatoes have also been ordered in schools because of the cost of something cheaper. This is a banal example, while we have a lot of healthy food in Slovenia, even agriculture is not in an enviable position, but we go public procurement at the lowest price, regardless of quality and regardless of the healthy farm of intelligence, which tells us otherwise. Any marriage can also be played, found holes. As I have already said, only a healthy farmer's mind, responsible and fair conduct in this public procurement sector can bring better results. The State should otherwise exercise its supervisory function over the implementation of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor. Excuse me? Proposer. Here you are, Mrs. Janja Sluga, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I must say, colleague Novak, I actually agree with you all that has been said. But maybe there's only one fact that's already in existence. Otherwise, I would agree – we are talking about the State having to verify these violations and that the State must be the one to determine whether or not someone meets the conditions. However, the fact is that every contract already has its own guardian's public procurement contract, and it is the guardian who checks that the contractor fulfils all the conditions at the time of the conclusion of the contract, and also now that guardian will remain the one who will then, after Article 67a every six months, verify compliance with these conditions. However, it is one very simple application to verify this by requiring in fact only two clicks for each verification of the contract. This is the e-File, where all the information where they are related essentially to the database, both Fursa and the Labour Inspectorate and so on, and requires the guardian of the contract, as I said, only those two clicks to check that a particular contractor meets all the conditions listed there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Regarding the amendment to Article 8, colleague Ludmila Novak has already said that we support it. As far as content is concerned, I must say that we really expected the solutions to this amendment to the law to be what we have been expecting for several years. But obviously, as if it cannot be, I will directly say back there to some lobbying which simply does not allow the legislative branches of government to do so do not allow the public procurement system to be regulated, so that it would actually be possible and the required economic treatment of public money. Ladies and gentlemen, the lowest price is still the main criterion in selecting an offer, and this is the biggest mistake. Why? Because it is the easiest and quickest to choose at the lowest price. To ensure the quality of the goods and services ordered, this is a key issue. We don't have competent people here to answer that question. In the 4th grade of children, a school student can determine which is the lowest price offered, and so he can choose the contractor because it is such a criterion. He does not, nor does the civil servant, answer the question of how to ensure the quality of the goods and services ordered. This is an extremely important matter within the European Union, where we spend more than EUR 2 000 billion per year and in Slovenia, somewhere, to facilitate comparison, half the state budget. And the problem is, which I also pointed out in my position, the problem is the legal safety of subcontractors. Innumerable cases, including very tragic ones, are known by subcontractors who have not been paid. Also, the fact that one can apply for some works, including large, few million construction works or any of those from the living room, if I may say so; it has nothing but a living room, and this one may rent a computer and log in and, of course, because it has offered the lowest price, is chosen. Especially at a time of crisis, when there is no work – I mean the construction sector again – of course, it will get subcontractors who will be financially squeezed, perhaps even to the point of collapse, because it will not pay them because they are not legally protected. However, companies with a capacity of both employees, mechanisms and so on, have offered a slightly higher price for certain construction works, for example. This company can now only be a subcontractor. The one who gets a public order from the living room will cash 5 or 10 %, 50 or 100 thousand or million, without taking a shovel or a hoax, if I may say so in a parable. And the problem is that in the procurement process, officials still do not know what they are ordering most of the time and what they will be commissioned to do. If they do not know what they are ordering, then the choice based on the lowest price for an official is the fastest and easiest choice to make the least mistake. Most government officials are still unable to independently order equipment, such as nuclear power plant, chemical materials and food. The Secretariat of the primary school has no knowledge of nutritious food in order to prepare a good order of food for students. And so on and so forth. And who is responsible, colleagues and colleagues, if a public official gambles or gambles 10 million euros officially worth a public contract, we ask the taxpayers. Nobody! No one is responsible because it is such a law; not a minister, not an official, no one. And that's the fault of this system.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u34	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there have been many laws coming to Parliament in the past month, which in some ways are more self-promotional options, but on the other hand, they are extremely flawed, untransparent, so we do not know how they came into being, somehow there is no public treatment of these laws, which can later prove to be a serious flaw, which can at least in some laws have a lot of bad consequences. As far as this law is concerned, of course, I will support the amendment, it is not among the worst laws that I have just discussed, but it is disputed that these laws, which we fail to deal with properly, are being accumulated, and then – let's say, in this law there are many initiatives to be followed and many more. We have also received a letter from the Union of Free Trade Unions, which, by the way, supports the law, but also identifies what is still wrong in the area of public tendering and that these matters should also be regulated. The time for such additions is probably gone, and of course there is still much work to be done in this area. On the other hand, the practice we are seeing shows that the whole area is very strangely regulated and that it allows many private interests to draw public money unpunished. Given that this area has not been adequately regulated for 25 years, it means that there are such strong interests in the rear that affect the fact that this legislation is not the same as it should be in order to prevent a number of crimes. Let me just say, for example, because the University Clinical Centre in Ljubljana has already been mentioned today and that they have granted up to €70 million of public funds in an illegal way over public tenders. If we think that, after writing to the media, the only penalty for the person most responsible is Mr Simon Vrhunec, only EUR 500, while the burden of punishment is the greater burden of punishment, it falls to the institution itself, which we know will be paying the money that this institution will have to pay for that purpose, of course, means that the whole system is quite flawed because it allows for an unpunished breach of legislation. And in this area we should do something. Let me mention another case: let's say what happened in TES 6, where criminals and prosecutors found that because of a harmful contract with Alsto from France, public funds were damaged for EUR 250 million, and we still have no epilogue of it today, despite the fact that this contract was signed in 2008. In fact, I wonder if there is no reason why it has not yet been done in this area, precisely in that it is waiting for an ageing, including all those who have influenced the fact that the money has been poured into France and then through strange channels probably back, because those involved in this business from the scarf lobby are at that time, as it has been determined, who have made a lot of money. In short, I think what needs to be done needs to be improved by the information system itself, because today the media are closed both at the local levels where they're being monitored, we can say, local sheriffs, mayors, even though there are public funds for local media. Then the media are at a state level where the interconnection of capital with different stakeholders is increasing and there should also be something to do here, empowering journalists again so as not to be reprimands, of course there is still a role of control, criminals and the judiciary. All of this needs to be substantially improved [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda. I'm putting an end to the 15th item of the agenda. We're moving to 2. Agenda item — Proposal for a Law on amendments and additions to the Act on Ageing Security and Social Benefits, abbreviated procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Allow me to brief you on the report of our Committee, which is held at its 51st regular session. On 1 this year, he discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. Amendments to both coalition parliamentary groups and amendments to opposition parliamentary groups were tabled within the time limit. In its opening remarks, the applicant presented the main guidelines of the law. It was pointed out that the proposed amendment eliminated the temporary austerity measure or measures in the area of parental protection and family benefits introduced by the Public Finance Balance Act, namely the right to support the birth of a child. The proposed amendment further introduces 30 days of parental leave for adoptive parents or persons entrusted to them by the child for the purpose of adoption. Payment of child-bearing assistance shall be introduced in the form of so-called charity, which may be spent on children's equipment, child-care supplies and the like. The novelty also specifies the age of the child for whom parents are entitled to an increase of 20% in the amount of the child supplement for children up to 4 years of age. The law has also been dealt with by the Legal and Legislative Service in terms of its powers. In doing so, she pointed out that the scope of the exercise of rights from public funds should be uniform and that the texts of laws and articles should be drafted in such a way that users can understand. In particular, it has been highlighted or stressed that one law regulates matters and the substance of another law and that the time limits for the enforcement of laws are too far removed. The Committee also presented the opinion of the State Council, which supports the amendment or amendment of the law. The discussion followed, where the most attention was given to the proposal to withdraw a child allowance from parents whose children do not attend primary school for unjustified reasons. Representatives of the Ministry of Labour considered that the greatest benefit of the child is also that the child attends primary school and stressed that the school inspectorate in the last annual report notes that the number of children who do not attend school or study from year to year increases mainly in the Roma population. The number of children who do not attend primary school does not decrease despite the fact that they act against their parents through criminal proceedings at the tax office. Some members of the committee strongly opposed the proposal for the withdrawal of the child’s allowance, or some members of the committee strongly opposed it and stressed that the first question should be why children in a particular community do not go to school. The social issues required cannot be addressed by the withdrawal of a child supplement, which is slightly broader than the term. As an inappropriate measure, the Ombudsman and the Community of Centres for Social Work also considered the measure inappropriate. The debate also focused on the proposed innovation, which from 2020 provides for the payment of aid at the birth of a child in the form of charity and not more in the form of a monetary amount. The proposal was opposed by members of the opposition's committee who are in favour of a sum of money, because otherwise a public invitation to tender will have to be made for the selection of suppliers of the contents of the charity, which normally gives priority to certain or certain tenderers. Hereinafter we voted on individual amendments. Amendments to Article 7 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups and to the Levic Group were adopted. However, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group was not adopted to Article 5 which speaks of the mother I spoke about earlier. Finally, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In view of these adopted amendments and pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared. The amended bill is an integral part of this report, which I briefly presented to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u37	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me begin by saying that we will support the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, it is also necessary to know in the adoption of this law that the demographic, economic and social changes in Slovenia have also led to changes in the number of unmarried spouses, including the average age of the mother at the birth of the first child. According to statistics, the average age of the mother at birth is 29.3 years, which is more than, say, 4 years in 1995. Slovenian families now have on average fewer children, i.e. 1.16 children per Slovenian family. But if we only take into account families with children, that's 1.56 children. About 53% of families are single-child families, families with two children – 36% and families with three or more children – are only 11%. One of the main reasons for the current state of the family is that the economic and social situation has changed, in particular the concern for economic survival and changes in the employment of men and women. As a result of demographic changes and the challenges posed by ageing, it is of paramount importance that, as a country with special measures, we encourage decision-making for marriage, family creation and the birth of children. Family is the basic cell of each society, as it is its original purpose in establishing a family. In the SDS, we stand up and always take care of our family and promote family life and put this concern high on the priority scale. Within the limits of the country's ability to influence family life, we will do everything we can to ensure that the family remains the central cell of our stay. All measures aimed at improving the status of the family are, of course, supported in the law before us, we support changes such as the more flexible way of using paternity leave, the elimination of the right to support the birth of the child, the introduction of 30 days of parental leave for adoptive parents, the payment of assistance at the birth of the child as a universal right for the parents of all newborns, irrespective of the material situation of the family. We therefore support the amendment of the law in the SDS Group, but it should be pointed out that there are small changes and that much more attention should be paid in the future to the area of family policy and changes as far as possible as they are before us today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u39	The text is given by the Desus Group, Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u40	Thank you very much again. Let me begin by saying that, of course, we will also be happy to support the proposed amendment of the USDP or the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act. We have before us a regulation trying to eliminate the austerity measures introduced by, I often call it, the famous 2012 ZUJF. As has been said many times, the current government has decided or is seeking to phase out austerity measures gradually, taking into account the capacity of public finances and the state as such. Of course, we also at Desus understand that it is, I will not say dangerous, but perhaps not the most appropriate, that all the austerity measures that the ZUJF has put in place overnight, even in this way over the night and quickly put an end to it, but of course there is no rush in all of this, and the first signs of economic growth do not go straight away with measures that would address the kind of restrictive measures that the ZUJF has put in place. However, it is moving, we are going to a better place and we are pleased to see that, in the area of social transfers, rights, family policy and pension payments, there are visible steps and steps that are going in the right direction. As it is said, it is much more responsible not only for the state's own treasury and parablagics themselves, but especially for all citizens and citizens, that we have gradually taken steps to remove the measures. We are convinced that the phasing-out of measures is much better than the risk of a one-off jump into re-blocking or blemishing if you want, economies and the deterioration of public cash registers. Some of the freezes or reductions in rights have already been released, many have already been released, some will be released this year, and I would like to point out above all that in the Desus Group we have negotiated even higher levels of harmonisation in addition to the annual pension coordination achieved in previous years this year. This month's pension will rise by 2.2% and in April by 1.1%, but of course that is not all, it is only a start, because, as you know, we want to, we have also put the law into procedure, past deprivations, if I may say so, pensioners in the coming years by 2022 gradually neutralized, compensed, so that pensions will return to a higher level, which we think is the only right decision. To return to the USDP, the Parental Protection Act and family benefits. This regulation is important, or the amendment of the law is important for families, as it eliminates the austerity measure for newborns. By means of austerity measures, the ZUJF has introduced a censorship, i.e. a barrier, to obtaining assistance at the birth of a child, the elimination of income censorship is not least possible and will also constitute a positive attempt or step towards improving ours, but not only this measure, of course, a demographic picture. In this measure on family policy, there is a change in the amount of money aid to the so-called charity intended exclusively for the purchase of equipment for children or all such or other needs that the child needs. With a view to the explicit purpose of the child allowance exclusively to the child, the Ministry of Labour, at the initiative of the Ministry responsible for education, introduced in the original text of the draft law the possibility of withdrawing the child allowance in case the child does not attend the primary school which is compulsory for unjustified reasons. Although we understood the intention of the proposer to force parents to take care of the education of their children and thus give them all the opportunities for further education and a better career path and then, of course, jobs. In our Group of Members, we believe that the purpose of the Children's Supplement should not be basic social security, but it is the task of other measures, including, or mainly, the social resource. Since the Ombudsman, as well as other civil social initiatives, spoke of the disproportionateity of such a measure — and we share that view — of course we did not support this part of the law. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware of the abuse of rights, not only in children's allowances, but also more broadly, so we need to look for a solution to how effectively to ensure that social transfers are used for what they are intended for, but we know what the definition of a child's allowance is. According to our assessment, this would also be easily controlled by the services of the social work centre, especially now that it has occurred or the reorganisation is taking place, which was intended, allow me to use this slogan, on the ground and closer to people. As for – and thus I conclude – the views of the above-mentioned points of content as well as of all others, which I have not been able to state here for a limited period of time, since the solutions have already been specifically presented by the Ministry both on the Committee and in the debate, we agree with them in the Desus Group and will, as I said in the introduction, we will support the law with great joy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u41	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, followed by Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u42	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Let me say at the outset that Members of the New Slovenia will support this law, and despite all the weaknesses it solves at least a few problems and finally systematically regulates the reimbursement of the difference in the price of guilt for a passenger car and van for large families. We also welcome the changes in the use of paternity leave, and we also welcome the changes in the area of other family matters, but at the same time, I have to say strong criticism to the Ministry for restricting freedom, such as the abolition of cash receipts at the birth of a child and the fact that, despite the conjuncture, there are still so many austerity measures in the area of family benefits. Social Democrats and their Minister Kopač Mrak have completely lost their sense of reality in all family savings measures – lower maternity after the third month, limits of maternity, paternity and parental compensation to twice the average wage in the Republic of Slovenia, a price of 74% of the net average wage in the Republic of Slovenia per person to entitlement to child support and an allowance for a large family. This law only eliminates the latter; it calls for a large family allowance. They write a long text on how to predict the fight against demographic change, especially the many too low birth rates. In particular, they have demonstrated once again the complete absence of self-criticism by declaring, in the introduction to the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law, that the only significant intervention in family policy measures or family benefits since the independence of the ZUJF. This was written, on the fact that the Institute of Social Protection of the Republic of Slovenia, the Association of Youth Friends in the Botrstvo project and the second several times clearly and professionally supported and stated that the far-reaching damage to family benefits was caused by the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Resources, the authors of the then Minister Ivan Svetlik and State Secretary Anja Kopač Mrak. ZUJF was, of course, a very difficult and unpleasant marriage, but all of us, especially in New Slovenia, fought that austerity measures did not affect the weakest. However, the law on the exercise of rights from public funds was particularly affected by the following: large families, where students were deprived of state scholarships, retired single women who became the most endangered social group for poverty, and single mothers. Moreover, if the Ministry did nothing, the family savings measures would automatically cease to apply a year ago. But no; they have further sharpened the conditions and extended their validity to this day. Unfortunately, this is the reality. Nevertheless, the Members of New Slovenia will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u44	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague, welcome! Today, we have before us the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, which, inter alia, we legislate or redefinition: a new method for the use of paternity leave for a period of 30 days, providing that fathers can use all 30 days of paternity leave together, with at least 15 days to spend at any time from the birth of a child to at least one month after the parental leave in a row and the rest until the end of the 1st grade of primary school. The proposed novel also sets out in the field of parental protection and family benefits a temporary austerity measure, censorship, assistance on the birth of a child. A universal right shall be provided for all families, regardless of material situation, in the form of a charity that parents may spend on children's equipment, supplies, children's food and so on, for the various tenderers to be selected through a public invitation to tender. In doing so, we would like to point out, because of some concerns that it is quite a while before this solution is implemented, and that this provision, if it were to be assessed that it is not the most fortunate, of course, to be amended. In addition, 30 days of parental leave shall be imposed for adoptive parents or persons entrusted to them in the upbringing and protection of the child for the purpose of adoption. The law also amends the age limit of the increased child allowance for children not enrolled in kindergarten, namely that parents are entitled to a 20% increase in the amount of the child allowance for children up to 4 years if they do not go to kindergarten. This is what we want to encourage the inclusion of children in kindergarten at least two years before school. A precise age condition is introduced for children with the right to an allowance for a large family and child care allowance for those children who have the status of student, student, apprentice, student, but no longer than 26 years of age; systematicly regulated assistance in purchasing guilt for large families if the vehicle is classified as second toll class B. In exceptional cases, the parent of the child with special needs may be allowed to receive at least a proportionate part of the partial payment for lost income despite being placed in the institution if due to the child’s health or other condition much time spent at home or in the treatment because he actually cares for the child and cannot compete in the labour market. This is a quick summary of what marriage brings. In the opinion of our Group of Members, these measures are good, and we will, of course, support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, chairman. The proposal before us has both positive and negative benefits. On the one hand, it can be considered social because it extends certain rights and, on the other hand, we can also read it as a product of natural policy with latent but fortunately withdrawn elements of microfascism. This is how we support the proposed use of father's leave in Levika, since it allows fathers more opportunities in the way they use it. It is also fair to grant parental leave to adoptive parents. We do not have any problems with this and we view the measure as positive. We also welcome the system's assistance in purchasing wines for large families. Furthermore, we do not oppose the abolition of austerity measures and, as a result, the re-universalisation of aid at the birth of a child, but we are critical of the naturalistic policy reflected in such proposals. As with the defrosting of a child's allowance for wealthy parents, it is a matter of defining social criteria from family policy. This means that we will all subsidise wealthy families who do not need these transfers. On the other hand, the Government maintains a shamefully low social assistance, does not want to eliminate the child’s allowance from the price of obtaining social assistance and opposes raising the minimum wage to a level that ensures normal life. Instead of seriously addressing the issue of inequality and poverty, the Government is using the birth of an obsessed naturalistic policy that only sees in families an instrument of reproduction of the future labour force. According to the Statistical Office, 280 thousand people live below the poverty risk threshold. Of this, there are as many as 50,000 minors or more than 10% of all children. A quarter of single parent households and more than a third of all people living in rented apartments live below the poverty risk threshold. Thus, instead of helping those who have gone to the worst of times, the government prefers to start with those who do not urgently need help, using double criteria. For example, the government has suspected Roma parents of not spending their child support allowance on the maintenance of the child, while rich and well-sustained families do not doubt that this transfer will not be spent on luxury spending and financial investment. In Levica, we do not support the reduction of the child allowance for children who are not enrolled in kindergarten, nor do we support the idea that the allowance is paid in the form of charity at birth. The government by such measures expresses its distrust for parents and proves that it has no contact with the living circumstances of the people who rule them. In accordance with the amendment we have tabled in Levica, the measure of institutionalised racism, which provided for the withdrawal of children's allowances to those children who were not enrolled in primary school, has fortunately been withdrawn. This explicitly targeted the Roma population, although it was cleverly covered up in the explanations. School enrolment is, of course, essential for the development of a child, but we stress the need to ask about the causes of such absences. It is not possible to resolve challenging social issues with a stick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u48	Thank you very much. All right, everybody, welcome! The new Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, which is set before us, aims at maximising the child's benefits, promoting a more equitable burden-sharing, caring for a home and family among parents, granting some rights to adoptors of older children, and improving the situation of families with children in need of special care and protection. In the novel, we particularly welcome the introduction of a more flexible method of using paternity leave. It seems to me that large families pay for vineyards the same as other families, although they use a larger means of transport. As a result of this novel, however, every couple who receive a child will receive a financial gift from the State again for growth. Since the introduction of the notorious ZUJF, the Public Finance Balance Act, in 2012, only those couples who did not exceed certain income limits have received this incentive. The novelty of things is now governed by the way it was regulated before the crisis. This is precisely why I am most pleased with this novel because the government has apparently finally heard what Alenka Bratušek's MEPs have been saying for the entire mandate: "The crisis is over, let's put an end to the austerity measures!" In the Group of Non-Related Members, we will also undermine the proposed amendment because it removes a disputed provision by which children's allowance would be taken away from families whose children do not attend primary school for unjustified reasons. Such punishment would have had exactly the opposite effect from the desired effect, and the resistance of these parents and children to education and state institutions would have increased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mag. Tanja Zink will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u50	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Parental Protection and Family Benefit Act is a statutory law governing the rights arising from parental protection insurance and is one of the most important laws in the field of family policy. However, family policy measures are increasingly important in view of the demographic challenges we face. Undoubtedly, the implementation of family policy in Slovenia in recent years has had a very large, perhaps even too large, impact on the Public Finance Balance Act. In general, this law had a significant negative impact on families and young people, as noted by the Government. The novel we are considering today introduces quite a few changes in the area of parental protection and family benefits, and let me mention only some. A new, simpler, transparent and flexible method for the use of paternity leave is introduced, in the area of eligibility for assistance at the birth of a child, a austerity measure is put in place, the payment of aid at the birth of a child in the form of charity is introduced and aid for the purchase of large families is systematically regulated. In doing so, I should mention that the initial proposal for a law also contained a provision providing for the withdrawal of a child allowance in the event that the child does not attend the primary school for unjustified reasons. The proposed solution raised a lot of dust in the public and was also an unfavorable guardian of human rights. Despite the fact that we coalition Members have come from the view that primary school education is of exceptional importance to children and that its parents or guardians must ensure that the child attends school and then we have deleted this provision. Although we understood the purpose of the provision, the proposed solution seemed inadequate to us. In the SMC Group, we are aware of the importance of family policy and believe that the proposed changes will reflect the fact that young people will make a better decision for the family. The Convention on the Rights of the Child also provides that the State must take all appropriate measures to help parents or others responsible for children to exercise the right to a standard of living corresponding to the child's physical, mental, spiritual, health and social development. At this point, it is not too much to point out that the international organisation Save the children in the study on the quality of life of children Slovenia has placed 172 countries in an enviable first place in competition. In addition, it should be noted that the Government, under the leadership of Mir Cerar, has abolished most of the austerity measures in its mandate and has taken measures to improve the situation of Slovenian families. Above all, we are pleased to see that some of the amendments envisaged in the draft law are described as concrete measures in the Resolution on Family Policy 2018-2028, which we will also consider today. We will support the bill in the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda. I'm breaking up the 2nd item of the agenda. We're moving on to 25. Agenda item – Proposal for a Resolution on the Social Policy 2018-2028 »All Families a Friendly Society«. The draft resolution was tabled by the Government. To further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Martini Vuk, State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I am pleased with the tremendous support of the Parental Protection Act and the family benefits that you have dealt with under the previous item and all the measures that follow it, which are an important step forward in supporting families and in particular children in Slovenia. Given the characteristics of family policy, Slovenia can be classified as a group of Nordic countries which are characterised by the fact that family policy measures provide good support for the coordination of paid work and family, relatively financially accessible and quality public services, equality of opportunity, promotion of women's employment and the like. Slovenia therefore has a well-developed and relatively generous family policy in a comparative sense, but we note that more public awareness of existing measures is needed, but at the same time less modest, when we present ourselves in a European and wider space. Family policy in Slovenia is based and will be based in the future on an integrated or integrated and inclusive approach. This means that it must include all kinds of families, take into account the plurality of family forms and various needs, respect the autonomy of the family and the individuality of its individual members or members, protect children's rights in the family and also make the protection and quality of life of families, in particular children. The essential elements of family policy, however, are in particular the coordination of professional and family life, gender equality, the establishment of a wide range of programmes and services for families, and the contribution to the cost of facilitating the maintenance of children and the protection of families in specific situations of life. The drafting of a new resolution on family policy is subject to the Family Code, but of course it is also time to update the resolution in force adopted in 1993. This, now that the resolution still in force, has laid the foundations of family policy and is development-oriented, it is still still much more current today, but it is more declaratory and less concrete. The difference between the current and the proposal for a new resolution is mainly that the new one is deeper, presents the situation in the individual substantive areas as it is today, and is more concrete in the objectives and measures, while also setting indicators for their monitoring. One important difference is that the family policy under the new resolution is recognised as a separate policy and not more than part of social policy, and in any case it remains inseparably linked to all other policies. The objectives of the proposal for a new resolution are: to improve the quality of family life by focusing on the high quality of children's life; to ensure the protection and protection of families and individual family members, especially children; to create conditions that will stimulate family decision-making; and to this end, we can stress that the motion for a resolution is also an in-depth document on the issue of fertility. We want to achieve these objectives with as many as 158 measures envisaged by the resolution over a period of 10 years in different areas. I'll only point out some. The resolution underlines the importance of completing all austerity measures in the area of family policy as soon as possible, and one step is taken by the law under consideration, and the next is pending. The introduction of at least a minimum child allowance for all children; the provision of a gradual transition from parental leave back to work; the increase in the level of the parental allowance at least to the basic amount of the minimum income and further increase it for certain categories; the provision of higher assistance at the birth of the child for the second, third and subsequent children; the establishment and strengthening of childcare services for the children of the first triad of the primary school and second periodical care; and the provision of a certain number of protection hours for children of single parent families and for children with special needs at monthly level; the extension of the possibility for the use of leave for the care of the family member, for example, so that the child can also be cared for by older parents, aunts, uncles, in short, the provision of greater flexibility to all persons on leave; the provision of compensation for the family member's stay in the hospital; all children who have a registered residence in the Republic of Slovenia; the provision of health insurance for all health benefits to others; the health allowance for all persons. The motion for a resolution on family policy after a quarter of a century since the present resolution proves that family policy is an important place in Slovenia. Important steps have been taken in this mandate, and we can say that family policy has received a new acceleration, so please also support this proposal for a document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u54	Thank you very much, President. As stated, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons has considered the draft resolution on family policy 2018-2028, entitled "All the families are a friendly society". The Committee considered that document at its 51st meeting. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We have heard the opinion of the Council of State at its own meeting, which supports the motion for a resolution. The opinion of the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance was also transmitted, where the importance of the introduction of therapeutic groups of medicines was highlighted, and comments were also made by the Institute regarding the extension of the possibility of the use of leave for the care of a family member, i.e. the provision of compensation for the care of a family member for the duration of his stay in the hospital. As a result of the resolution, family policy is based on an integrated or integrated and inclusive approach, which means that it includes all kinds of families, takes into account the plurality, the diversity of family forms and the various needs resulting from this, respects the autonomy of the family and the individuality of its individual members, teaches children's rights in the family and beyond and puts the protection and quality of the family and children at the forefront. The essential element of family policy, however, is also, or in particular, the possibility to harmonise professional and family life, to ensure equal opportunities for both sexes, to establish a wide range of programmes and services for families, to contribute to the cost of facilitating the maintenance of children and the protection of families in specific situations of life. Family policy is recognised in the framework of the motion for a resolution as a separate policy and not more than part of social policy, but this must be said in the same breath as an integral part of the country's overall policy as such. In the context of the debate that followed, we felt that the resolution meant and constituted an important guide for family policy in the coming years, and at the same time meant some way to draw up action programmes. The talk was also about the birthrate, which is comparable in Slovenia to most European countries, but also broader, so that we have low mortality and also low fertility, and many times the negative natural growth of the population. We have also highlighted the importance of a high level – which is right to continue – of free contraception, as well as the importance of learning modern methods of natural family planning, which many believe is not yet well established in Slovenia. After the discussion on the individual chapters of the motion for a resolution on the Committee, we have not adopted any amendments and since no amendments were adopted to the motion for a resolution on the home work, the Committee on Labour, the Family, the Social Affairs and the Disabled to the National Assembly, proposing that the draft resolution on family policy 2018-2028 be adopted by a friendly society to all families in the text before it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will present the position of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! Family is precious to one person and to society. Article 53 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the State shall protect the family, motherhood, paternity, children and youth and shall create the necessary conditions for such protection. The State has therefore committed itself to taking appropriate incentive measures for families. The resolution, however, is a strategic document which, for the next ten years, determines where family policy should go. In Slovenia, we have witnessed a stable range of family policies since independence, especially as regards motherhood, paternity, children and youth, or even their gradual expansion and increase. It is not to be forgotten, however, that the work of the competent ministry has been seriously flawed, namely, that all this time the area of family protection has been abandoned from the family policy framework; it is also the parents and the parents, especially when they are unable to take care of themselves. The most direct negative intervention in existing family policy measures, namely family benefits and allowances, took place in 2012 with the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act. In the area of family policy, the law has reduced or limited the scope of many rights, which are gradually being rectified during the time of this government. There's been a lot of redundancies. However, in this resolution alone, and not in the law, the fear of the rights of children and their parents is accompanied by the care of sick parents or old parents. Moreover, in the resolution, the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance objected to the cost of the country being too high. By the way, even before this item on the agenda, we have dealt with one of the many laws in this mandate, including the abolition of austerity measures. In this law, let me once again draw attention to the lack of competence and social insensitivity of some of those responsible for legislation at the competent Ministry of Labour. In the original version of that law, families whose children do not attend primary school were tried to be punished by the removal of a child’s allowance. We have always opposed this measure in the Desus Group. We have demanded that the Ministry prevent neglect of children in another way and ensure that all children receive primary education. The resolution itself is not for a range of measures in specific areas, but which are inseparably linked to each other, such as accessible and satisfactory housing conditions, accessible, safe and parent-friendly jobs and the like, so in the light of this title, it would focus on the concept of a family defined by the new Family Code, but we should not only take the family so narrowly by this definition, but they are here, as others say. I'm talking about our parents, our grandparents. In today’s ageing society, care for the disabled and the sick is becoming increasingly a problem. At the same time, we need to rediscover that we still do not have a systematicly resolved area of care for the elderly. In this area, the Ministry of Labour has completely cancelled, and then the burden of drafting legislation has passed on to the Ministry of Health, which has also not been able to take the necessary steps to regulate this area. This concern financially and timely places a heavy burden on family members. In view of the fact that care for disabled parents, like children, is more taken over by women, it makes sense, as elsewhere in European countries, to introduce the right to temporary detention from work due to the care of their parents. This resolution defines this. This is a so-called supply leave when it comes to an illness requiring the care of older persons, and the motion for a resolution is in the direction of similarity to this new leave with the absence of financial compensation, as is now the case for the care of a spouse or an illegitimate partner. The need for the introduction of such a right is also recognised by the European Commission, which calls on Member States to take appropriate measures to ensure that workers are entitled to a maternity leave, which should amount to at least 5 working days per year for an individual worker or worker. Members and Members of Desus, we certainly support such thinking, but at the same time we hope that this will take effect as soon as possible. The present resolution is an upgrade to the current one, which is already 25 years old and is no longer in line with the current situation. The new resolution is an appropriate step forward, according to the assessment of Members and Members of Desus, and the Desusa Group will therefore support this document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u58	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The resolution now in force was adopted in 1993, 25 years ago, as much as the family means to the Ministry of Labour. One cannot believe that this is possible, and we have now received an incomplete, weak, poorly prepared document in decision making, without the right current solutions for the next decade. That is why we have carefully prepared a large number of amendments in New Slovenia, unfortunately no one has been accepted, truly sorry, no one. As our fellow Member, Tonin, has already said, nice words about cooperation, tolerance and work for the benefit of families, but when the vote comes, all the socialists are numb. That's too bad. Family policy in Slovenia must, in our opinion, be based on an irreplaceable role for an individual, community, nation and society. It is therefore necessary to promote values such as freedom, responsibility, justice, security, tolerance and follow these principles, the principles of joy for life, integration, equality, protection, protection and respect. Family policy should be in support and assistance to the most vulnerable, children, while at the same time taking care of the socially weak, who for various reasons cannot take care of themselves. In Novi Slovenije we therefore advocate a consistent separation of family and social policy measures. As we have already proposed several times, it is imperative that a debate be held in society on the introduction of universal basic child income if the child allowance is the same as the family policy measure, to be universal, for all children. Slovenia is too rich a country to save on children. Under the Ministry of Anja Kopač Dark and ahead Ivan Svetlik, a number of anti-social and anti-social measures were taken in Slovenia by the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds. Let me just mention the abolition of state pensions, the loss of state scholarships due to child allowances, the reduction of many benefits, and today much of this has not been resolved. In Novi Slovenije we join in a constant warning from the Legal and Legislative Service on the imprudentness of the legislation governing family and social benefits. And the ministry does not improve this situation, but, on the contrary, it makes it even more complicated. The most direct intervention in family policies or family benefits was compensated, despite warnings of possible negative impacts on the quality of life especially young people, families and births in 2012 by the implementation of the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds. In the area of family policy, the law has abolished, reduced or limited the level of many rights, such as abolishing the right to children's allowance to full-year students, reducing state scholarships, harming large and single-parent families in particular. In addition, some benefits, the security allowance and the cash and social assistance have also changed to a category of remunerable benefits, while also partially affecting the situation of families, which has reduced the amount of the parental and parental allowance, the aid at the birth of a child and the allowance for a large family, which were no longer universal rights, but conditioned by income, narrowed the circle of beneficiaries to the child's allowance and repealed the provision for free kindergarten protection for another child. Many families, particularly large families, have been severely affected by these measures. With a really bad demographic picture, a catastrophicly low number of births would be expected from a competent ministry of different kinds. Members of New Slovenia We will not support the motion for a resolution because it does not respond to the main challenges of the near future.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u59	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respected and respected! The Resolution on Family Policy 2018-2028, entitled Family-Friendly Society, is another of the last coalition commitments in the field of the Family Policy Department, where we have committed coalition partners to ensure a broad professional debate on a new family policy resolution that will serve as a basis for the protection of children's rights and of all forms of modern partnerships and families. We have done so successfully in our view, and we can confirm this important document today. Discussions about families, about the different families that are between us, have been going on for a long time. Whether they were positive or not, now is not the question. The fact is, we have talked a lot about this since the first proposal of the Family Code. Although the first Family Code fell at the referendum, something positive came from this experience. We talked so much about diversity that it became common. Perhaps not entirely, but a little closer to accepting the difference, but we are already; and that makes us happy. We are also pleased that we have a definitively revised family law and, on this basis, a resolution that we are considering today has been written. Its aim is to set basic objectives and measures in the area of family policy over the next 10 years, thus improving the quality of family life. The key objectives of the motion for a resolution are to improve the quality of family life by focusing on the high quality of children's life, ensuring the protection and protection of families and individual family members, and creating conditions that will have a positive impact on family decision-making. Social and family policies are not just social transfer policies. Social policy is a set of sectoral policies requiring agreement on the basis of dialogue and consensus. If we are to reverse these negative demographic trends, we will have to act in an integrated manner. Individual measures will not suffice to convince young people that their future is safe, that it is safe to create a family and that more than one child will not make their situation worse. Family policy is based on an integrated approach. Although independent, but inseparably linked to other policies: housing, social, labour market policy, health, education and education. As we often face the problem of low fertility, an active approach will be needed primarily in the area of housing policy, which will have to become targeted at ensuring that housing is as accessible as possible, not just equity. In Slovenia, the issue of the provision of rental apartments will need to be addressed in particular. Family decision-making will also contribute to safer jobs and decent pay. Research has shown that the desire to maintain the standard of living achieved is a very important consideration in decision-making for children, so there is no doubt that families need to be more burdened financially if we are to have more children. The Ministry of Labour in this field already has the results of its work. As a result of the measures taken by this government and this ministry, unemployment has been falling for a long time, we are cutting the mark and the refund for the receipt of monetary social assistance and the security allowance. We have taken proven effective measures for the employment of young people, as well as measures to prolong the work of older people. The changes to social legislation were mainly aimed at improving the situation of families, within these single parents and large families in particular. We raised minimum income, added new scholarships, released additional child supplement classes and raised the allowance for a child in a single parental family. We have changed the consideration of the allowance for single-parent families in the measurement of rights from public funds, the way in which the child allowance is taken into account and so on. We continue to take action. We have just discussed the new package of measures in the previous paragraph, which we hope will also achieve their purpose in the area of family policy, as everyone mentioned earlier. Social Democrats see the content of the resolution on family policy as an important and necessary step forward in this area and, of course, we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u61	The word is given by the Left Messenger Group, for her Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, chairman. As I have pointed out in Levice's position on the previous point, 280 thousand of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens live below the poverty risk threshold, of which 50,000 are children. We therefore insist in Levica that family policy must be an integral part of social policy, a policy that deals primarily with the social situation of children. The task of family policy is not either to provide a future workforce for capital or to preserve the people, because in this belief the Slovenian political class lives and in practice puts the password for Children for all, social security for no one. No! No! Family policy and its task are: for the first time, ensuring equal opportunities for children, including those born in socially disadvantaged families. Second, that children may be made up of people who, by their own income alone, could not maintain or reach them naturally. Thirdly, that all those who do not decide for children, especially women, do not receive social pressure or other retaliatory measures because of their decisions. On the contrary, the proposed resolution considers family policy an instrument of naked reproduction. By eliminating the social criteria and objectives of reducing inequalities, family policy is changing into an extremely naturalistic policy. Family as the most important basic social group is reduced to pure biological reproduction. This is clearly reflected in the text of the resolution. The resolution explicitly states, and I will quote you that “the number of births in the country is also important for demographic policy, so family policy is pursuing the goal of creating an enabling environment for decision-making for children.” This obsession of the political class by birth is totally groundless. Slovenians are no endangered species. The population has continued to increase steadily since independence, with an increase of 5% in 1991 and 48% in 1948. Of course, the structure of families is changing, the number of four- and multi-member families is decreasing, which is something completely normal in developed countries. So the problem is not a naturalistic crisis, but a structural imbalance between the older and the working active population, which is one of the reasons, but only one of the reasons, for overcoming our pension fund. An effective measure to strengthen the working population is to prevent emigration by improving living conditions, especially for the younger generation, who, due to poor wages, because of poor employment, if any, because of lack of housing and thus continue to move out of the country. Therefore, social measures are essential in various areas, in the area of poverty, in the fight against irregular, lax forms of work, in the area of housing policies – if I only point out the most crucial. Therefore, the answer is not in the exploitation of family policy to subsidise people with intermediate and even high incomes with the aim of increasing births. Such measures will not achieve their purpose, but will have another consequence – we will leave the most socially vulnerable people at risk. The task of the State is not to subsidise families of politicians and directors, but to provide at least approximately equal opportunities for all children. If we pay 53 Euros of child support to a household with more than 4 000 Euros of net income, then obviously we can and must take care of the weak ones. As long as the addition of a single mother to social assistance amounts to EUR 250, while child support reduces the social assistance of the poorest households, we will defend the primacy of social policy over family policy in Levica. We are opposed to the resolution of nature in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u63	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Tanya Zink.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u64	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Say good-bye to everyone again! Family has an important role to play in society. The protection of the family by society and the state is also of great importance, which goes beyond family and is also an important element of other policies. In Slovenia, the establishment of a family policy is based on the 1993 Resolution on the Fundamentals of Family Policy-making, which aims to create conditions for improving the quality of life of all families and equal opportunities for the personal development of all family members. The long-awaited resolution we are considering today is a strategic document setting out the objectives and measures of family policy for the period 2018 to 2028. It follows from the proposal that the aim of family policy in Slovenia is mainly to ensure the quality of life of families, with particular emphasis on the quality of life of children, and the protection and protection of families. Slovenia is no exception in dealing with demographic challenges, and this calls on those responsible to pursue a successful demographic policy. Therefore, the number of births in the country is important and one of the objectives of family policy is also to create an enabling living environment for family planning. In order to achieve this objective, it is important that the wider social situation extends to the labour market, housing policy, health care, education and education fields and so on. Family policy must seek to create a sense of security and stability in people and promote measures to facilitate the coordination of work and family life, in order to ensure the interrelationship and interdependence of the various areas it touches. As has already been pointed out, Slovenia was ranked at the top of the 172-country scale on the basis of a survey on the quality of life of children. In the field of family policy, the Mira Cerar government has released several austerity measures and certain challenges remain. One of these, after 25 years of waiting, we have begun to resolve with a resolution on family policy, which we welcome in the SMC Group. We are convinced that the resolution adequately addresses the problems we are facing as a modern society and gives concrete guidance in the area of family policy for the next 10 years. That is why we particularly want not only to remain a record of the text on a piece of paper, but also to be able to achieve the objectives as much as possible and thus to overcome political divisions. After all, it is our shared responsibility. As we say, in the SMC Group we support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u65	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u66	Your Honor! We have before us the adoption of a new resolution on family policy. The resolution now in force was adopted in 1993 and we therefore believe that the adoption of the new resolution is necessary. Instead of having the Government of the Republic of Slovenia come to the National Assembly in the first year of its term of office with such a document, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia took priority in the area of family policy on topics and solutions that shared with the Slovenian public, while even extending austerity measures in the area of family policy, which would have been eliminated in accordance with the ZUJF years ago if the current coalition of these measures had not been extended at that time. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that everything is nice and right that the current government is proposing to the National Assembly to adopt a motion for a resolution on family policy 2018-2028, which underlines in the title to all families a friendly society. The fact is that the resolution must be a fundamental long-term document by which the government sets the basic objectives and measures in the area of family policy. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are still aware that such a document should be adopted as soon as possible. And again, we are facing the same problem when this government tries to deceive the electoral body a few weeks before the start of the electoral campaign with such or different approaches and with letters on paper of consciousness of people and especially of the family, how to care for their future. This resolution, like many others in other areas, does not mean anything except the dead letter on paper, unless the commitments entered into are then also made in legal form. To this day, in three and a half years, the current government and coalition have proved what they can do and what they have made of great words and pre-election promises. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we no longer believe the well-written texts for which much money and time was spent, since on the other hand we find that many families live significantly worse than before this government comes. Also, many families have problems from month to month. How many hungry children are there, and how many live below the poverty line? This is what is crucial, and no one, such well - written paper, can solve the ever lower standard of single - parent families and large families in particular. If the government wants to do well for families, it should start by improving the economic environment, new investments, lowering taxes, hiring young people, adequate housing policy, and not thousands of written papers, including resolutions that now, at the end of this government's mandate, come to the National Assembly as per the current tape. We will not oppose this resolution in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u67	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the motion for a resolution, the amendments to the assembly cannot be tabled. The decision on the motion for a resolution will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking up the 25th item of the agenda. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Health Protection and Health Insurance Act in the framework of the shorter procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of five Members and first-signed Miho Kordiš. The proposal for a law is at the 29th session of 1. 2. 2018 treated the Health Committee as a parent working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Members of New Slovenia are aware of the issue that we are dealing with today under this item, and if anyone in this National Assembly understands all tradesmen, entrepreneurs, in short, all workers who contribute to the well-being of our country. Traders and entrepreneurs have, within the framework of the requirements of Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship, been calling for a number of years to amend the provisions of the Health and Health Insurance Act and the Labour Relations Act relating to the length of the period when the employer pays the remuneration from his own resources, in cases of inability of workers to work because of his illness or injury, which is not related to work. On the basis of the initiative of craftsmen and entrepreneurs, we have again tabled new amendments to the Health and Health Insurance Act and the Labour Relations Act, which reduces the period of remuneration to the burden of an entrepreneur from 30 working days to 15 working days. It is fundamental solidarity towards people who are generators of the budget revenues and development of Slovenia. We welcome the proposal of Levice, which proposes to amend the beginning of the remuneration for temporary incapacity to work at the burden of the Health Insurance Institute from the current 31st working day to the 4th working day of detention for self-employed persons who do not employ other workers. However, in the New Slovenia Group there is no way to agree that this proposal places Levica in a privileged position only one segment of employees, these are self-employed, who do not employ other workers. So this bill is clearly contrary to article 14 of the Slovenian Constitution, which states in the last paragraph: “All are equal before the law.” Not all self-employed persons under this proposal are in the same position, for example self-employed persons who employ one or two persons, owners of one-person companies with limited responsibilities that do not employ other persons, and family companies or independent entrepreneurs who employ only one or two family members. I therefore call on Members of the Left and all other Members to finally come together and adopt a proposal to amend the law that will benefit all workers. In the New Slovenia Group, we are open to all constructive proposals for possible improvement of our two proposals for novels, which relate to the regulation of this pressing issue, to which we have been reminded by the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise Slovenia for many years. In addition, this city would remind us once again of the problem of presentationism. I would like to point out that presentationism is not only a worrying problem in relation to self-employment, but it has become a general problem, i.e. for other groups of working people. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that presentationism can occur because of fear of losing a job and because of the rapid pace of life. In our parliamentary group, we advocate a healthy lifestyle, healthy food and the environment, which can be a prerequisite for fewer hospital absences. In the New Slovenia Group due to unequal treatment of all craftsmen and entrepreneurs, we do not support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u69	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u70	Thank you very much, President for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In front of us is a proposal for a new Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, with which the applicants are pursuing the goal that the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia should start paying hospital compensation to self-employed persons who do not employ other workers from the fourth day of temporary detention from work, not from the 31st day, as is the case today. The exercise of the right would not change, the self-employed person should make an application and submit appropriate evidence, including a medical certificate to be completed by the selected doctor and the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, they also provide that the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance may compensate the self-employed person for the remuneration of the employer in which the self-employed person, during a period of temporary suspension from work, performed work under a civil law contract contrary to the Labour Relations Act. This would discourage employers from using the right to hospital compensation from the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance to encourage forced self-employment. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has pointed out, as has been the case many times before, that this is a systemic issue and that the problem should be addressed more systematically. Any change must be the result of constructive dialogue and the broadest consensus reached by the social partners. The legislative procedure for this amendment of the law has ended on the home body, and we will not even decide on it today. Nevertheless, we want and must again point out that this issue, which is addressed by the proponents, will need to be addressed. The novel refers to one of the areas in which self-employed persons are significantly disadvantaged compared to employees, which is the compensation of income during a period of temporary suspension from work or hospital compensation. Since self-employed persons do not have an employer, the first 30 days of sickness do not actually have the right to a cash refund paid to employees by the employer. We agree that the current system of remuneration for periods of detention for certain groups poses a serious problem, but as we are different people, the situations we are in are so specific. This is also why not all go together, because there are many different groups in this segment, which cannot be equated due to the specificity of work and status. This is precisely why the system should be resolved in a fair manner by addressing the problems of individual groups of comparable cases. Since the legislative process has been completed and it is unrealistic to expect anything similar to this mandate to be adopted and we are not counting on the reform law anymore, now is the time for a serious debate to begin. How will the next government begin to address and regulate this area? The way proposed by the proponents can be one of the starting points for further discussions, which must be linked to all stakeholders in social dialogue and find the best solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u71	The word is given by the Left Messenger Group, for her Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, chairman. We have proposed this law in Levica in order to improve the situation of self-employed persons in general and within this penitentiary workers in particular. One of the main problems for self-employed people is that the first 30 working days are not eligible for hospital benefits. Regular employees have been compensated since the first day because they are paid by their employer. Well, self-employed people do not formally have employers, so the first 6 weeks of illness are left to themselves. Since self-employed people do not have the right to a hospital, they also work when they are sick, unless they literally fall down, but then their health problem becomes a social problem. They still have families to support, they still have to pay social contributions. A lot of people can't do that without health insurance. And that's what the rolling problem is all about, and it's getting bigger from day to day. At the same time, there are increasing numbers of self - employed workers from day to day. 30% more espouses than we had before the crisis, the average espa had only EUR 330 a month before last. And you try to come in a month with 300 euros if you can. Therefore, it is not surprising that the rate of poverty among self - employed persons was also appropriate. Five times as big as regular employees. The situation is serious and we have therefore proposed that the socialists be granted the right of self-employed persons to receive sick leave from Day 4 of the disease onward and paid to them by the Health Insurance Office. Only self-employed workers who do not employ workers would have this right. In this way, let us exclude from the measure the subsidisation of those espies which are essentially employers and also have 50, 100 employees below them and so on. On the Committee this proposal fell by 6 votes to 5. She only voted against SMC. However, the reasons given by SMC Members do not contain a serious opinion. The first stated reason was, like, oh, so often, saving. As we said on the committee, we are talking about a maximum of EUR 10 million per year. If within 4 years the coalition had fulfilled its promise to end supplementary health insurance, these costs would easily have been covered by a new public donation, and this would not have led to a catastrophic hole in our health treasury. The second objection by the largest government party was to further encourage espionage by means of this new right. In this regard, I must immediately say that it is extremely cynical that the SMC blames us for its laxity, while it is under Cerar's government that the number of second-rate workers working for the public sector and state-owned enterprises is increasing through external operators. In addition, we have placed in the marriage a security guard against abuse. The Health Insurance Office could sue the employer for the hospital which paid off this apparent espionage, in which the elements of the working relationship were actually given. In addition, we have proposed a new Labour Relations Act in Levica, which would allow all especies that generate more than 80% of their revenues in one contracting entity to be eligible for regular employment. And if you're really worried about the pastime, ladies and gentlemen, at least you'll support that novel if you're not a nurse. Since the SMC voted against our proposal exclusively, last week we called on the other parliamentary groups to sign our law. In this case, it could still be adopted at the April session, but apart from the unconnected Members' crumbs, no one has supported us, which is another final, if you want, confirmation that the criminal workers with the exception of the Left in Parliament have no allies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u73	The word is given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, for which Vlasta Wait.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u74	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law proposing certain solutions relating to the payment of compensation for the absence of self-employed persons was rejected by individual articles during the treatment of the parent body. Therefore, at this stage, we would like to sum up only the key reasons why we oppose the bill in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre. For we believe that the adoption of the law in the proposed form would have a negative impact on a number of other areas, with, in particular, a worrying significant outflow of funds from the health treasury, thereby interfering with the rights of all insurers. The proposed measure to reduce the period of payment of the cash refund due to temporary inability to work at the expense of the employer, self-employed person or partner is consequently reducing the rights of all insurers, since the solution, as proposed, constitutes an extension of this right to compulsory health insurance. In view of the limited resources for compulsory health insurance, this would consequently mean that the health services that today belong to us as insurers should be substantially reduced, since there is no limit to the funds in the health register. The draft law also provides that the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance may compensate the self-employed person for the compensation paid to him by the employer, where the self-employed person has performed work under civil law during a period of temporary suspension from work. The latter not only deviates from the applicable provisions of the Labour Relations Act, but it is also disputed that a person does not perform any work at the time of temporary suspension or in this case is not entitled to compensation. Therefore, it is not clear which natural or legal person on the basis of this fact the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia would be able to charge for the reimbursement of costs. In its opinion on the proposal for a law, the Government also pointed out that legislation in the area of the acquisition of such rights must be the result of constructive social dialogue and placement in part of systemic solutions. It would be necessary to assess the consequences of adopting such a proposal in terms of the burden on the economy and, last but not least, to verify the sustainability of the proposed amendment. At the Modern Centre, we are committed to solutions aimed at exposing a higher level of social justice, but we are also aware that such solutions must be taken with caution and in broad social dialogue so that no new imbalances in the social environment can be created as a result of the resolution of a particular social group. Because of that proposal, we do not support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u75	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u76	Hello again! Thank you for your word, President. With the proposal for amendments to the Health and Health Insurance Act, the proposer wanted to ensure that the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia would compensate the hospital for self-employed persons who do not employ other workers, start paying from the fourth day of detention from work and not after 30 working days as in the current regulation. A change of law would undoubtedly improve the difficult situation of self-employed people in which they find themselves if they get sick. It is known that the State actively promotes self-employment as a means of solving high unemployment, and it would therefore be appropriate to offer these categories something on the other hand. This change would allow self-employed people who do not employ other workers who could be replaced during their illness to receive normal treatment and rest. Of course, one of the areas where self-employed persons are significantly disadvantaged compared to employees is the compensation of income during a period of temporary suspension from work. Since self-employed persons do not have an employer, the first 30 days of sickness do not have the right to a financial compensation paid by the employer to other employees. They also do not employ workers who could be replaced during their illness. Since the income of self-employed people who do not employ other workers depends solely on their personal work, self-employed persons tend to work, even though they are sick. That's a fact. According to statistics, since spring 74% of independent entrepreneurs of individuals. In this category of entrepreneurs, not only their health is at risk, but also their social security and the social security of their families. So if a self-employed worker cannot work during illness, he still has to pay social security contributions. Therefore, we can conclude that the self-employment which the Government so encourages does not guarantee social security and, on the other hand, the Government does not offer these self-employed persons anything, as I have already said. Of course, there is no need to stress that this would increase the expenditure of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. The proposer estimates that the circus is 10 million a year. However, it is not to be overlooked that in 2017 self-employed persons paid around 112 million contributions to health insurance in this cash register. But the Government does not support this proposal, because it does not believe that it does not guarantee the objectives set. The change should, according to the Government, be the result of constructive social dialogue and the consensus reached by the social partners. Of course, at the end of the day, the Government did not forget to stress the need to take a systemic approach with such issues. It is a shame that the Government did not recall the systemic changes in the Patient Rights Act, the Medical Service Act and the Health Act. But for systemic changes, respected colleagues, it's too late anyway. In the SDS Group, we supported the proposal of the Left on the Home Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u77	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Marija Antonija Kovacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good-bye to all of you! In our country, we would like to commend ourselves for being one of those countries where we have health care and insurance that is extremely well-managed. However, if we look at the number of times proposed in this mandate alone to amend the Health and Insurance Act, obviously the marriage ground is not as good as we think. Perhaps such a hospital care system has worked well in the past, and because of the changed situation in the labour market, it appears that for all employees the current hospital stock regime is not good, but is not appropriate. As we have already heard today, the biggest problem in hospital absences is faced by those who are self-employed, and more so by those who were forced to take on the status of a single entrepreneur by the former employer. Unfortunately, in the Slovenian labour market, in recent years this form of penitential work has been greatly expanded. Of course, we are aware that every espa was not forced to assume this status, but all have the same problem when they get sick. That is why in the Desus Group we understand and support the intention of the proposed amendment. It is clear to us that the novel did not offer an ideal solution, but a way out. We still do not have a system solution and, if I can judge after reviewing the last text of the new proposal of the Health and Insurance Act, we will not be able to wait for this mandate. The minister's view of the law is not touching the issue of abstention or presentation, nor does it bring good systemic solutions. At the same time, a simple novel, like this one before us, suddenly touched both problems. From this point of view, in our Group of Members, we felt that the proposal deserved support, so we have not unanimously rejected the bill. We are aware that the current regime forces self-employed to work even when they are sick. On the other hand, it threatens their social security and that self-employment is in itself a health risk factor. The risk of self-employed poverty is almost five times higher than that of employees. At the same time, it is clear to us that this is a systemic issue, which must also be examined in terms of the impact on the economy and social justice. However, change must be the result of social dialogue and the broadest consensus of the social partners. One of the concerns we had in our parliamentary group was the adoption of the proposed solution to create new anomalies and create new inequalities, and possibly even encourage employers to force workers into self-employment, thus eliminating the costs of cash compensation that workers must pay in the first 30 days of hospital absence. Members and Members of the Desus Group are aware that the issue of abstention and presentation will need to be addressed systematically as soon as possible in such a way that any worker who gets sick, regardless of the way he is employed, will be able to pay full attention to recovery rather than worry about how he will survive if he receives the hospital's absence. However, we fear that we as a society are far ahead of a suitable solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u79	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. This concludes item 3 of the agenda. We're moving to 23. At the top of the agenda, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Dark Staret.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Members, Members of Parliament, other Members! At its meeting on 18 January this year, the government adopted a proposal for a new law on integrity and the prevention of corruption ahead of you. The present novel contains solutions that, in our opinion, significantly strengthen the conditions for ensuring apoliticality, a higher level of competence of KPC officials, and in particular the transparency of the selection process and the appointment of Commission officials to prevent corruption. More specifically, we regulate and lay down the conditions for the introduction and conduct of individual procedures, which the Commission is responsible for preventing corruption. The types of procedures and the legal conditions and the manner in which these individual procedures are conducted are clearly defined. It therefore clearly and unequivocally defines the procedural competences that have been established in the application of the law so far, and also in the case law that has been established in the application of this law, of course, contributed and presented the basis for these solutions, which we have before us in the present novelty. We also provide a significantly higher level of legal certainty in the event of the publication of public documents and the adoption of individual decisions, including the rights of all stakeholders in the anti-corruption proceedings before the Commission. At the same time, we also provide the additional options, methods and measures envisaged by the Integrity Act to prevent corruption with a view to preventing conflicts of interest, enhancing transparency, integrity and, of course, preventing corruption. All of these methods and measures contained in the existing law are now being upgraded by the fact that we define more clearly and unequivocally the conditions and rules for individual methods and measures, but also by extending the powers to give opportunity and measures under the law of the Commission in a way that can now be implemented at legal level and, of course, also lays down conditions for so-called systemic control, which is comparable to those of the Court of Auditors. The possibilities and competences of obtaining data and documents from natural persons are increased when they are engaged in legal traffic as independent entrepreneurs or espouses. At the same time, the proposal offers a new possibility and a measure to the Commission to propose the introduction of an audit to the Court of Auditors on the basis of findings in its own proceedings, while also ensuring the possibility of an appropriate response, as I have already said in the introduction, to stakeholders or individuals who have participated or are subject to supervision and the procedures of the Commission. It is important to strengthen the possibility of more effective control of the assets of the debtors and, at the same time, to establish and unequivocally identify the legal basis for the public disclosure of the property status of the most responsible, i.e. a certain circle of the most responsible state and local government officials. In addition to the supervision or control provisions, the legal position of the Commission’s anti-corruption officers with other national officials or local authorities subject to the supervision of the Commission shall be equivalent to that of the work governed by the Institute of Business Restrictions, the prohibition of the conduct of activities, the acceptance of gifts, the control of property status. In short, all these powers and rules are now clearly and clearly defined and are within the purview of the proposal of the National Assembly to oversee essentially this institution when it comes to Commission officials for the prevention of corruption. We therefore have before us the opportunity to make the existing regulatory framework, which is not so bad in itself, weak, improve and, of course, improve the conditions for a more effective prevention of corruption, while at the same time encouraging the current KPC to use the proposed and expanded methods and measures envisaged by the law to further prevent corruption in the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, to strengthen transparency, business and public sector operations and to limit conflicts of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u81	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u82	Dear Mr President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! There is no doubt that the issue of preventing corruption and the standard of integrity in our society is one of the most challenging issues which, of course, will not be resolved by the anti-corruption law, unfortunately. The issue of integrity and the attitude towards corruption can only be resolved truly and fundamentally through a change in the social framework, in a way that we can change our own attitude towards what social success means, that this on the one hand will not be a quick profit and expensive car, but that this will be a fair work for which even those who hire it will be willing to pay only and only a fair payment so that they do not seek redress and that they will not try to realize and execute their prosperity at the expense of all others. Since corruption, even in the short term, can be a contribution, is really a place for itself. Therefore, the fundamental question is whether we are capable through the system of education and awareness more than through the system of sanctions and threats to create conditions where understanding that corruption must not be part of our daily lives becomes a social norm and that it will be associated with our country as a whole being able to give up primarily to what is the source of corruption – the desire that you have too much and beyond the kind and past of work actually done more than others. In order not to go too long into what desires are past reality, to the northern Protestant countries, unfortunately, to separate us for many miles, not just geographically, so the swift Mediterranean framework of such value and legislation, which we must adopt, will remain for a while, and it is right to address integrity and corruption in a context where we must do so – through the law before us. Our reality is the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, which deals more with preventing corruption than it does with the question why many, not to say all of its decisions, end up before the Administrative and Supreme Court, where they are often, often too often, eventually eliminated. The damage caused to both the Commission and those involved in the procedures it is carrying out, and consequently to a society which is not pursuing corruption properly, is exceptional. And years when the procedural and systemic competence of this commission has not been adequately addressed, years have been lost for the prosecution of corruption. Therefore, of course, what is before us today can be a small but not an important step. If we look at the content of the law according to points, let us first of all find that it gives the Commission new, more precise conditions for the introduction of procedures and in some way guidance on how to lead these procedures. It's sad enough that we have to do this with a new law, because this has not been possible until now. It provides the possibility of a revision proposal, gives possibilities for system control, increases access to data – all of these are tools that can be listed and described in the law until disability and without end. Finally, it is up to people who in the Anti-Corruption Commission will want, know and be able to carry out their work without the day-to-day battles between themselves, for their own powers, functions or such, and so forth, small and great egoisms. We can't stop this as a legislator, and we can't cut it. And back to what he said at the beginning. Of course, we will support the law because we are aware that we are living in an environment where good decisions in themselves will not only take place because they are necessary, but also because of the law. However, we would also like the Commission to adopt this law in order to prevent corruption and to understand it well-intentionedly, not only through the prism of its work and not simply through the need to defend its achievements. Corruption in this society must be brought to a standstill. It must end any of its acceptability, but not in the way that it is on the shoulders of the people involved in the proceedings, but in the end, in the decision-making process. As has already been said, the proposal must be considered further. And we believe that with all stakeholders it will be possible to draw up the best law, but as has already been said, it will be the subject of whether we are willing and willing to implement it in its purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u83	The word is given by the Left Group, for which Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u84	Thank you, President. Have a nice hello again! We have been talking for more than a long time about preventing corruption on the Commission itself, which is supposed to prevent this corruption. From the resignation of the Senate under the leadership of Goran Klemenčič to the unsuccessful appointment of the new Senate, to the resignations and re-elections, the contested political membership of the President, the disputes between the members of the Senate themselves and then the resignation of the Deputy Deputy, the issue of the Commission is clearly getting deeper and more problems with it. This situation obviously corresponds mainly to the two groups, on the one hand to the proponents of the abolition of the Commission, and on the other hand to all those who find themselves in various corruption affairs. The Commission's findings are subject to a number of manipulations by those who are in the process. There is always evidence of bias, political motivation and every final conclusion is finally challenged in court. The problems related to the commission are therefore water per mill to those who are suspected of corruption. They also include, clearly, politicians who still perform their functions smoothly today and all the time rely on procedures to be illegal. In view of the progress of this mandate, we can quickly get the feeling that the current situation actually benefits the government more than it does. Without a brief historical review, it is impossible to show the whole state of the fight against corruption and, above all, the lack of action of the commission to prevent it. So let me look back first. After 30 days in power, the Minister of Economic Affairs resigned because of disputes. Due to nearly 150 000 more heavy copyright fees, the school minister resigned. Her successor sat in the ministerial chair all 1 weekend before she resigned because of plagiarism and suspicions of abuse of position. The next education affair, which revealed the illegal payment of allowances, did not, however, take the third Minister of Education and not her colleague, the Minister of Finance. Further, there were several State secretaries in such and other suspicious situations, some for instance for pate theft and, on the other hand, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment was transferred to the post of State Secretary at the Infrastructure Ministry and became head of the second track project. Due to the disputed purchase of bar tables, which he had acquired in his former post, the Secretary-General of the Government resigned and due to debts owed by the Secretary of State of the Second Minister of Economic Affairs, Mr Počvalska. On this basis, some have achieved only a career breakthrough. After the State set up 2TKK, for example, it appointed the former Secretary of State for the Chief of Staff, and again others will receive progress after the end of the Government's term of office or just before that. Some will be hospital directors, again other directors of some kind of work centre. In the meantime, some government projects have increased their profits by selling and installing cutting wires, for example. If we add to this review all the disputed developments around DUTB, SDH and some state-owned enterprises, we cannot go beyond the question of whether the fact that the current commission is not working is actually deliberately allowed. In order not to make a mistake, the situation also corresponded to past governments and former officials, to the abuse of the situation, to the concealment of property, to the impeccable name or to the money of unexplained origin, is common to all actors of these affairs – as long as the system, as it is, is easier to challenge the findings of the commission in court; while the system, as it is, is easier to manipulate it, it is easier to manifest itself as a victim of increasingly complex and dark conspiracy theories, political structures and all that comes along. Despite the fact that the fight against corruption was one of the main pre-election promises of this coalition, we are in a situation where the detection of corruption, political responsibility and suspicions of crime is limited to investigative commissions of the National Assembly, and therefore the opposition, despite the great promises of a systemic solution that will allow for the investigation of all major and corruption-related state projects, has not happened. Although the government has drawn up a law, it has Vehementically presented it as a key project of this government and brought it to the National Assembly in May 2015. After almost three years, it is quite clear that it was nothing but an advertising act and that the law was written so badly that it could not even be corrected. Well, the truth is, the government didn't even make a special effort to fix it in any way. Another major problem lies elsewhere – in all major state projects where unimaginable amounts of public money flowed into private pockets, it was what we can call the most dangerous link, the link between SDS and SD, as with TES-6, for example. This usually means that no one is to blame, and in the end no one is to be held accountable. The only one who can change that is currently a colleague of Hanžek with an investigator who was proposed immediately after joining the National Assembly in Levica. In the light of all of this, following the review of amendments to anti-corruption legislation, it is much easier to understand some of the proposed solutions. Although there are several positive solutions in the law that we support, for example, the extension of the commitment circle to other officials and public servants, including the Bank of Slovenia, which is drowning in all controls, and the upgrading of the information system, where more information will be publicly published than today. We also support the public publication of the wealth situation of officials and the clearer provisions on lobbying. However, we cannot go beyond the fact that, in the event of the Commission's complete failure to act, it will still not be possible to act in the end. The Senate will still not be able to resolve or in any way cut off the agony of this Gordy knot. Instead of this possibility and instead of fully clarifying the procedure and the rights of individuals in these proceedings, the Ministry decided to restrict the powers of the Commission. The Commission will, for the most part, deal only with integrity, but not with concrete cases of corruption. Although she will be conducting interviews, gathering evidence, she will no longer be able to accept the findings in specific cases. Once it has submitted all the material to the competent authorities, the case will simply be closed. All she can do is publish an opinion identifying herself at the principal level to systemic shortcomings or inconsistencies. In Levica, we are convinced that a strong but really strong anti-corruption commission is urgently needed to successfully combat corruption, which means, with professional and functional leadership, a clearly defined procedure that will eventually hold up before every court, with clear and concrete powers that are broad enough to enable effective prevention of corruption and the handling of specific cases. If the Commission is ultimately a toothless tiger who advises and issues only general opinions, then this cannot be the Commission to prevent corruption, but rather the Commission to strengthen integrity. Because of all the solutions that are needed and are also going in the right direction, we will support the proposal in Levica this time. In the next reading, we will only support it if it deletes provisions that change the Commission into an advisory body, and if, in the event of an unsustainable situation such as today, the resolution of the Senate is possible. Above all, we expect the law to be written well enough, firmly enough, that after receiving the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, it will not lie in the drawer, together with the system-wide investigation of state projects.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u85	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u86	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We are in a time of turbulent changes in society. The society is marked by changes in technology, we are at the threshold of the fourth industrial revolution, and we are at the threshold of the transition to the cyber world and social science. Here is how important it is that on the one hand we have an increasing number of people who are rich, and that small handful that keeps the world in check, and an increasing number of the poor on the other. And here are the most exposed issues of corruption in the widest sense. What's hot? There are transit countries and Slovenia in the process of getting out. We are talking about systemic corruption, which we have recognised in Slovenia that it exists. We are talking about a deep country, about taking over institutions, taking over legislation, the legislative branch of power, we are witnessing a flood of laws at the last minute. It all results in the country that's been kidnapped. And how do we get rid of it? It's anti-corruption. The Anti-Corruption Commission has a major role to play here. We can talk about the ephemeral of millephoglia, the effect, the approach to corruption at multiple levels. Criminal level – police – prosecution, financial level – tracking cash flows and media level, fourth branch of government, these are the Commission's teeth to prevent corruption – the media. Are the media independent? Are they investigating corruption? I don't think so. And, of course, that fundamental mission of the Commission – preventing corruption. The concept of the Commission, which was adopted and one of the fundamental conditions for Slovenia's entry into the European Union, was good for the time being, but at that time there were so many changes that we need a completely new concept that approaches the Scandinavian countries that have done the most in this area. A proposal that stands before us. I'd like to know what's on this proposal from the Government's Law Office. Does he think the proposal is appropriate or do we need a new concept? We see it's a big change. I will be interested in what the Legislative and Legal Service will say about this, how this is done in accordance with the resolution on normative activities. I'm interested in the opinion of the local government. Some of these are negative. And of course, there's something about the profession and the public. The question remains why right now, before the end of the mandate, why is he in a hurry not to resolve the issue? What will happen to the quality of this marriage? How will it conflict with other laws? How will it be implemented, and what will be the financial consequences? That's not exactly defined. We see that this is a proposal for large-scale change, and this is not what clearly defines the fight against corruption. Things get complicated instead of being simple and clear. This is supposed to be the new anti-corruption concept. We can point out the creation of a law that came from the Ministry of Public Administration to the Ministry of Justice. There's no explanation why. It's a matter of individual responsibility. Transfer of responsibilities within the Commission to experts. How will this affect decision-making? Not solved enough, at least for us Members, lobbying problem, whistle protection problem, there is no problem with rotating doors. As far as the data is concerned, some positive movements are, of course, but also in the data, there is no clear how they will be obtained, used and processed. I think there will have to be an explanation of what can happen in this area. And, of course, what is most important is the position, the office of president and members of the commission. We see that the President of the country has a major problem with the appointment of these people. Get people who are professional, position, city and reputation in the country. This is not resolved and this proposal will not be resolved; the problem will remain. Responsibility and position. In a given social situation, when we see that corruption is present everywhere and in various forms and at the end of the mandate in this pre-election period and in all open issues, even the role and position, I believe that a new concept is more appropriate than such fundamental changes to this concept before the end of the mandate. We will therefore vote in our conscience in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u87	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Alexander Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u88	Thank you, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today's debate on this item is intended to discuss the proposed amendment to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. This is a law of the origin which established the Anti-Corruption Commission. As a starting point, it should be pointed out that the Commission is an independent and independent State authority, that it is not subordinate in its work and must not receive instructions or guidelines for the work of the Government, the National Assembly and other state bodies, as well as other legal and natural persons. Independence and independence are fundamental constituent elements on which the authority of this institution stands and falls. In the Modern Centre Party, we certainly welcome the type of solutions offered by the proposed amendment to the law, but we would also like some solutions and proposals to be reconsidered and to consider other and different options. In this regard, in particular, we have in mind the uncertainties and inconsistencies regarding the Institute of Personality of the President and the Deputy in the proposed regime of the candidate procedure and the procedure for the appointment of officials. In addition, it is noted that the exposure of the criminal provisions in the amendment to the law to be adopted by the Anti-Corruption Commission may give an impression of the repressive nature of that body, which is not the purpose and purpose of these changes. Consideration would also be given in the direction of more precise regulation or appropriate additions to certain provisions of the bill, such as the vague legal basis of the National Assembly for obtaining data for the exercise of control of property status or even the question of the legal basis for determining the jurisdiction of the imposition of fines for offences set out in the proposed Article 30. For a solution that introduces mandatory notification of lobbyist contacts also for interested organisations, we note that it is not bad, but we believe that a more precise definition of these interest organisations is needed. We probably all agree that the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption is facing some problems both in the field of substantive and procedural and also in the field of human resources, which do not strengthen their reputation, and this reputation and confidence in the institution has decreased significantly in recent years. We are aware that this goes beyond finding reasons for such a situation simply in the context of a normative flaw and inadequacy, but also in the specific problems faced by the Commission. In this context, in particular, we expect the Senate to improve its skills and become fully operational. Our expectations are based on the basic principles of the Commission's action to prevent corruption, such as limiting corruption, strengthening the rule of law and integrity, transparency in the functioning of the country and society as a whole. Constitutionality and legality and impartiality and ethics are the basis of the work of the Commission, and its commitment is in particular to prevent the situation in society from getting worse in this area, but to make this situation significantly better. Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party wish to see changes in this area, but we stress that some of the solutions in the proposed amendment need to be better regulated and some further considered. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption is appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u89	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u90	Dear colleagues and colleagues! This time I begin my position by the minister's, "let's peel this onion" or the novel of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. Based on the fact that more leaves when I remove them will be a hell of a lot more. I will deliberately release small ballots, because there will be plenty of time for them in the debate, and I will only touch the larger, key ones. First, the first letter I am referring to the procedure and the way in which the text of amendments to the law is drawn up itself, the second will be intended to introduce new bureaucratic burdens and financial consequences, the third procedure for appointing the officers of the Commission, which is clearly the most concerned of Minister Klemenčič. On the fourth, I aim to restore people's confidence in the country and its core pillars of state-run action, which is supposed to be the novel and should be the reason for its adoption. Let's get started. The procedure and method of preparing the text itself, or changes to the law. At the time when Minister Klemenčič was president of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, during the government of Janez Janša, he was very loud and critical when it came to adopting legislation. At that time, Klemenčič considered that public expert discussions on individual legislative solutions should not be understood as delays and opposition to the necessary changes. The coordination of the search for good solutions and openness to the opinion of the professional public and also of independent state authorities were, he said, a guarantee of limiting partial interests, better quality of regulations and addressing corruption risks. In spite of the fact that the proposed novel has been produced throughout this government period, it should be pointed out that the novel under the auspices of the Ministry of Public Administration has become much more intensive and cooperative than since 2016, when this area of corruption came to the Ministry of Justice. It follows that the draft law would be before us, in front of Members and Members, much earlier if the area were under the initial Minister of Public Administration. This is how we deal with matter at the time of the last sighs of this government, completely irresponsible and irresponsible to me. While the Minister has assessed the expert opinion in adopting legislation as a guarantee for the adoption of good and transparent rules during the management of the PSC, it is simply arousing itself in its legislative proposals. The position of the Government's law enforcement service that such important and extensive systemic changes as presented in this novel require the preparation of a completely new law, the minister simply ignores. The argument of Slovenian municipalities that oppose certain marriage solutions is also overheard. And the minister's obviously in a hurry. Therefore, our concern about the process of adopting this legislation, which is risky and non-transparent, is more than justifiable. At the same time, it is most obvious that Minister Klemenčič is extremely ignorant of the fact that, despite calls from the current leadership of KPK to Minister Klemenčič and also Prime Minister Mir Cerar, Minister of Justice Klemenčič was not prepared to meet with President Boris Štefanec, current President of the KPK, on the subject of legislative changes and exchange of opinions. So no matter how long it took to prepare this novel, the way is completely unacceptable and far from finding the right and the right solutions. Clearly, the reason and purpose of amending the law is far from what it really should be, and in particular the preparation of a framework for deepening the deep state and not for fighting it. If the Minister wishes to at least partly wash himself and justify these double criteria, then I suggest that he or the coalition suggest that a general debate be held on the Law and the integrity of preventing corruption. I'm talking about a public presentation of opinions. Second leaf. Introduction of new bureaucratic burdens and financial consequences. Despite the fact that the successful functioning of the country at all levels requires the abolition of excessive bureaucratic procedures, the Slovenian Association of Municipalities points out that in the proposed solutions, the legislator is following an ever-increasing red tape of procedures. So instead of removing administrative obstacles, the law strengthens them. It is also irresponsible and unacceptable to mislead the applicant or the Minister of Justice that changes to the law have no financial implications. This is simply not true, since the congregations will have to carry out some new and additional tasks, which will also, of course, have financial implications. If the law is adopted in the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, they call for this to be taken into account when determining the average. In short, the information that the law has no financial implications simply does not hold, so from the Minister or the Ministry, because there is no minister today, I expect him to explain or assess the financial implications of introducing new bureaucratic burdens during the discussion. Third leaf. Procedure for the appointment of the officers of the Commission. The procedure for appointing Commission officials is clearly that of the onion most concerned by Minister Klemenčič, since the amendment of the law is devoted to this particular area. Feared that a similar politically unladen composition would follow the current leadership of the PKK after the end of the mandate, it is too much, and therefore it must be prevented by law. The city in the Senate must be prepared for a verified frame, with references and a common nominee, as we witnessed with Kos, Klemenčič and Praprotnik. The statement by the current President of the PSC of Štefanec that the shoes of his predecessors were infected with the fungi of illegality was clear enough to give the Commission complete control. The Commission's strong record in the 2016 anti-corruption assessment that important government measures remain unfulfilled in the fight against corruption is the last thing this government would allow to hear. He warned about Taš 6 and projects such as the second track, obviously KPK should not mention in the report. And fourth, the last sheet: the return of people's trust in the country and its basic pillars of nation-building or "onion is spoiled". The proposer, Minister Goran Klemenčič or Ministry of Justice, wrote in the introduction to the assessment of the situation and the reasons for adopting amendments and supplementing the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, quote: “In accordance with the coalition agreement on cooperation in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the 2014–2018 term, the mission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is to restore the confidence of people in the country and its fundamental pillars of state-of-the-art action.” End of quote. And how do this government and Minister Klemenčič fulfill this commitment? Is it a state-of-the-art act that the courts block and put in place and constitute an obstacle to obtaining important documentation when it comes to the functioning of the so-called Logar Commission or the parliamentary commission to identify abuses in the banking system, which, at the start of its operations, lost seven months of valuable time in court proceedings? Or is it possible that the higher court concludes that the above-mentioned commission is not entitled to information by any of the ministers, directors, tycoons and others visited members of the New Ljubljana Bank, i.e. banks owned by taxpayers and had to pay for its rehabilitation from their own pockets? Is this government and the justice ministry under the tactics of Goran Klemenčič thus engaged in the fight against crime and corruption? Is that how you imagine restoring the confidence of citizens and citizens in the country and its basic pillars? How many heads have so far gone on the basis of findings or in the National Assembly of Intermediate Reports of the Investigative Commission for the Identification of Abuses in the Banking System, where the second mid-term report concerns the finding of a billion Euros of laundered Iranian money, where it also specifically mentions the name of the Justice Minister himself when he was still in the role of President of the KPK and is expected to fight corruption at all levels and in banks as well? This fight was so thorough and unforgivable that the member of the Praprotnik Senate was immediately employed in Nova Ljubljanska Banka on the basis of exceptional experience and competence in banking after the late resignation of the KPK Senate. How many cases of bad, corrupt and criminal activity in the bank of all taxpayers has he warned so far? I'm asking. Of course, we can't get past what's happening in the health system here. At the expense of the health of our patients there are inadmissible outflows of money and corruption of the highest rate. Is this bill going to make this impossible? In short, if I draw the line under the record regarding the return of people to this country, which you state for reasons for adopting this law, I can only say that with the amendment of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, all your unfulfilled promises from the beginning of the mandate to citizens and citizens are merely throwing sand into the eyes. The onion is broken to the end, and it is sad that the eyes to the tears roast mainly the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia, who must watch and pay from their own wallets.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u91	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u92	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today, we are deciding on a proposal for amendments and an amendment to the law that we have been waiting for for a long time, according to some, even for too long. In view of the large-scale additions to the current law, it would be appropriate to consider whether it would not be better to prepare a new proposal for the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, but to take a different path. Thus, we have in mind changes and additions which, according to the proponents, create conditions for more efficient work by the KPC or for further strengthening of values and principles such as integrity, responsibility, transparency, rule of law and public interest. In the Desus Group, we particularly welcome the changes that the Commission, as a college body, has to deal with routine matters and cases that are less important from the point of view of its objectives, as well as certain additional actions by the Commission. The results of international research also show that there is still much to be done in the area of corruption and integrity. Thus, in the corruption perception index, Transparency International's largest anti-corruption network has reached its 35th place among 168 countries in Slovenia. But perhaps everyone would like to follow the leading countries on the scale, namely Denmark, Finland and Sweden. Although Slovenia has progressed since 2012 on the corruption perception scale, there has not been a more visible shift to today. Here, in the Desus Group, we are asked whether the solutions and additions that we are considering today are really the right path to more visible results, so whether they will really contribute to the improvement of the system's anti-corruption framework. The opinions of Members and Members are different, so we will listen carefully to today's debate and decide on this basis whether the proposal is appropriate for further consideration. A few comments are also made by the Commission to prevent corruption and, on the other hand, Transparency International Slovenia calls for the early adoption of legislation to establish permanent systemic solutions that would have a positive impact on the reduced level of corruption in the long term. The fact is that the proposal has been coordinated with many stakeholders, taking into account many comments, and some issues remain open. Thus, for example, in the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia they point to the assessment of the financial consequences of the proposed law on the budget of municipalities, of the short deadlines set for the reporting of changes in the property situation. They also propose that state councillors be exempted from reporting on property status, as well as from excessive penalties for both responsible persons and authorities. However, in the Desus Group, we are aware that it is also necessary to ensure the effective implementation of legislation in practice, because the fact is that we are still facing major shortcomings in the area of detection and prosecution of corruption. We would close our eyes if we did not recognise that the Commission's reputation for anti-corruption has also fallen, and leadership has been shaken for some time by internal disputes and numerous allegations. How, then, to trust a commission that does not have an orderly situation within its own action. Finally, the problems raised by the foreign professional public, such as the OECD and the Commission of the European Union, were highlighted. However, it must be said that the situation within the Commission to prevent corruption has only risen. This was probably helped by the departure of Vice-President KPK, with whom you and the President had quite a few problems, which we have often read about in the media. That is why it is all the more important who will be Vice-President of the Commission in the future to prevent corruption. However, to the extent that everything is not so transparent, it should be pointed out that this government has already adopted measures that have had a positive impact on the most risky areas. Staffing up the prosecution with 30 new prosecutors is, for example, just one step in a positive direction. In the Desus Group, we will listen to the ministry and the entire debate today, on the basis of which, as we have already said, we will decide on the vote in our conscience. In any event, the proposal for a second-reading law, if it comes to it, will complement certain provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u93	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, followed by Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! We have a problem. We actually have at least two key problems. The first, the author of the law, the Minister of Justice, the former President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, does not speak to the current President of the Anti-Corruption Commission. And the second problem, we expected this law according to the Government's work plan in 2016, today we are in 2018, but it is not so important that we are in 2018, it is important that we are 5 minutes before the elections, already in some pre-election game. And now this law is coming to improve the anti-corruption situation, which is supposed to reduce corruption in Slovenia. And the government will do one more hook, and it will be able to boast that another law, another law, has added to the number of beautiful amendments to the laws in the field of justice. And that's all. The rule of law depends on the moral integrity of people working in the field of detection and prosecution and in the field of justice, and not on the number of laws adopted. That's a fact. Slovenian domestic law has already been so established in our country that it seems quite normal and quite acceptable if someone is reading to a very well-known person in Slovenia because of family, friendly, business or government connections, they are able to avoid the time of justice. Although the law defines the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption as an independent and independent state authority, it is a body with a broad range of competences, but only in investigating the part of acts where corruption is suspected, while it does not have classic investigative powers to prosecute corruption crimes. In Novi Slovenija, we are still aware that corruption in the country, despite the functioning of this commission, does not decrease or at least does not decrease rapidly enough. While statistics show a upward trend, this is the direction of progress. We are aware that the functioning of such an authority in itself does not guarantee a successful fight against corruption, which controls capital interests through lobbying. We need the effective and fair work of the judiciary and the detection and prosecution bodies, the police and the prosecution, and not the commission with the powers and responsibility of the current Commission to prevent corruption. The developed democracies, ladies and gentlemen, by whom we all so like to imitate ourselves, do not know such institutions. Denmark and Sweden, for example, are among countries with least corruption, as they also have a fair judiciary and well-functioning detection and prosecution bodies. Unfortunately, our reality shows that political lobbying is not in the interest of a commission or anti-corruption body that has systemic power. That is why today's novelty to the Commission as a carrier of the fight against corruption is still taking on the little side role it now plays. The Commission will now no longer talk about the name and surname of the person concerned, but will only take a principled opinion on this case, because it will only be identified at the principal level until the action found. Let him who can understand! All of this suggests that the KPK will lose all its credibility. You could even say that the government corresponds to the state it is with the entire network of elites. If in our country we have the sense and interest to really lay the solid foundations of the rule of law, then we do not need a commission to prevent corruption, which we now have, and even less than what today's amendment of the law foresees. All repressive tasks in the area of corruption crimes could be carried out within the framework of the police and the prosecution, and preventive corruption tasks could be carried out by the internal organisational unit of the Ministry of Justice. If I go back to today's novel, it brings a whole series of minor changes and additions. Because of their large scale, they should actually have a whole new law on the table. Of course, a new law to bring about the necessary substantive changes that the then President of this Commission, Mr Goran Klemenčič, was talking about in 2013. The lack of power in the functioning of the Commission was then the reason why the KPK Senate resigned. In Novi Slovenija today we wonder why Mr Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice today, has not done his homework in this function. He had in his hands all the necessary levers, he knew all the grey foxes in the area of corruption and he had all the powers as minister, but he had nothing, he had no interest in doing so. It is of interest that Slovenia takes the path of a genuine judicial reform, following the example of at least some Member States of the European Union. They are not the most important loyal people, but they are the most important experts who will take personal responsibility for their decisions. As long as the independence of the judiciary exists only at the collective level and there will be no independence of individual judges, the judiciary will not be truly independent. The bureaucratic system of the judiciary should be abolished, and only the best judges should be appointed, with an excellent trial period, because the queen of all policies is a human resources policy. All of these are open wounds to our judiciary. In the light of the above, in New Slovenia we will oppose the amendment and the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u95	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The word has magic. Dušan Verbič, let us prepare Mrs Ludmila Novak and Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! I must admit that the content of the presentation of the Group was interesting, but I must say I am pleased that today we have a general debate on this proposal for amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Corruption and Integrity. And we certainly need to ask ourselves some questions for the introduction. Is corruption present in the Republic of Slovenia? Determined to. Has corruption decreased in the Republic of Slovenia over the three years? Personal opinion: no. And who is the carrier of the fight against corruption in the Republic of Slovenia? For this established institution, which we know as the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, and, of course, the one that runs it, that is, the President and Vice-President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. At the beginning of this term of office in the National Assembly, according to 2014 the European Commission has already taken a position and has made it very clear that, on the basis of a legal or, if I may say so, an institutional level of anti-corruption regulation in the country of the Republic of Slovenia has a rather satisfactory way of regulating. So we have a pretty good marriage basis. From this we have been able to conclude in 2014 that there is not so much a problem in the regulatory framework, the problem is mainly in the process of governance, governance, credibility and all that is necessary for such an institution as we know and have, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, to believe that it has a reputation both in the professional and in the laity public, and in particular between citizens and citizens. That is why I am joining all those who are rules and still say today that the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption in this current mandate has actually become, and I hope that I will not be too insulting, a caricature of myself. But the culprits are the next, certainly in the first place and far most responsible, the leadership of the KPK, which was from the very beginning of the appointment, I am talking about the current leadership, receiving individual affairs. I agree with the fact that several times in these years have been mentioned, including the media, that the appointment of this KPK leadership was in a manner consistent with that policy. Here I add something else: the current politicians too. I can say that it was an appointment, if I put it a little bit of a caricature, with a so-called anti-corruption fig in my pocket. I must certainly admit that the President of the KPK did not hear a word that the so-called deep state was also present in the Republic of Slovenia. We will certainly discuss this in other contexts. But what I must mention about the so-called deep state is that those who have already commented on the declaration of the operation of a deep country in the Republic of Slovenia have been silent lately. Certainly part of the responsibility for the current state of functioning of the PSC lies with the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor. Given that since the start of the appointment, as mentioned above, this commission has been led by various internal trends, there has been virtually no activity on his part. As a result, we still have a good three-and-a-half-full Senate leadership of the Commission to prevent corruption, virtually to this day. At the end of this so-called pyramids of responsibility, I am also giving this National Assembly, parliamentary groups, political parties, because in this case the Commission's action to prevent corruption is simply to keep our heads in the sand. And despite the fact that we have individual criticisms, depending on the particular topic that we are dealing with, somehow we are all waiting for the end of this mandate and perhaps the mandate of the leadership of the KPC. As has already been said in the presentation of one of the groups of Members, this concern about the Commission's leadership in preventing corruption by the OECD in 2016 has also been clearly recorded and given a message to all of us in the Republic of Slovenia. The problem is in this part of the regulatory regime, where the appointment of leadership, in particular the President, is too loosely regulated. What has also been strongly warned and said on their part is the so - called broken relationship within the leadership, is called a Senate. And as a result, I think we all know her, the resignation of a member of that. And if I make a comparison in this part, I can say that I am firmly in the position that the Anti-Corruption Commission should have a position in the country or society, with a strong reputation and influence, to say the same, equal or least equivalent to that of the Court of Auditors in the field of public spending. Who's to blame for not having a reputation? Surely this part of the institution, which we know as leadership, is called the President with his Vice-Presidents. I believe that my position, as well as that of many citizens and citizens, is similar to the fact that the Anti-Corruption Commission does not operate within expectations is quite silent. And what has also been said in the introduction is clearly a reflection and an interest in the past and current policies. If we look at the last three and a half years, even in the presentations themselves, some representatives have touched, let's not start with what's going on in the health field. Also important, which has almost not been exposed today, is what is happening in the area of governance of state assets. In particular, we are referring to the Claims Management Company, which we know has been transferred to certain State-owned bank claims, which is now almost concluded that certain claims should not normally have been transferred because they did not have a bad classification. However, these claims are today the essence of so-called sales with an astronomical to 80% discount. And here is the legitimate question of where the commission is, where the law enforcement authorities are, where the police are, where the prosecutor's office is, where the judicial branch of power is, in order to obtain so-called claims or indirect property rights on individual claims or assets that should normally not happen at all. And again. To whom does this state of action of the Anti-Corruption Commission correspond, indivisiblely, and this imperfect composition of the Senate? I can say directly, indirectly, to the various advisers of both governments and ministries, that I do not then speak to companies with hidden owners, companies registered in tax havens, various audit houses, and certainly could still be listed. If I finish, I can only say the following. Any activity, whether in the field of regulatory or human resources change, which would help prevent corruption, to prevent any process involving damage, even so-called public funds, is simply to be welcomed. It is true, however, that such changes should be substantively directed so that the level of corruption that we know is almost impossible to eradicate, that it approaches at least the levels that are in the system or in individual European countries with very low levels of corruption, and we want to approach them in a variety of legal bases. They're just samples. Despite individual concerns, it is certainly necessary to confirm this bill in the hope and expectation that it will be subject to a number of changes in the individual segments below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u97	Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the word to prepare themselves for the Mag. Alenka Bratusek and Mag. Bojana Mursich. Mrs. Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u98	Your Honor, hello! We all know there's corruption in the country. A number of examples testify to this, including various reports on the state of corruption in Slovenia. I expected very much from current Minister Klemenčič, who was President of the KPK in the previous period. As I recall well when he also came to our parliamentary group and presented a report on the functioning of the KPK and also indicated that the KPK had given a number of corruption cases, but the competent authorities did not continue their work. That is why I expected the current minister to immediately amend the legislation and propose improvements, or all that he saw that it was not working or hindering the good work of the KPK. Now, at the end of our term of office, we have a new law on the table, but it does not remove all these shortcomings, and the current KPC Commission says it will have even less powers than it has had so far. So we haven't solved the problem properly. Of course, we can have many commissions in the country, but there are not certain movements or people, citizens still do not believe that these commissions work properly, or that corruption is less due to the functioning of these commissions. I am not most fond of our parliamentary commissions myself, although some thanks to God have also come to important discoveries. Why? Since we in the National Assembly are politicians, officials of individual political parties, we are not experts, nor have most commissions led to the end of their work, or to take some concrete action, even though we have adopted certain decisions in the National Assembly, but when concrete solutions have been reached, they have been rejected, for example, by the Special Prosecutor's Office for Banking Crime or Specialised Courts. So all of this can be more political – I also see this committee as a political body that is a toothless tiger and nothing happens in the end. Of course, I expect the most from the law enforcement authorities who are competent to do so. In this area, too little is done to reduce corruption in the country. We have a lot of different rules, and eventually we even have to report the email we get about lobbying and stuff like that, whether you read it or didn't read it, it's your fault. It's such nonsense. Also in Parliament, we always have new political parties who win elections, new faces win, and people are ultimately disappointed. I say that this is similar to a comedy, when we say something on stage in Parliament, and real things happen in the background. And I can hear now how certain experts and various people are looking for shelter in new promising winning parties. Therefore, some do not even want to tell before the elections who will perform in their party, because it would immediately reveal what the background is, who is connected to whom and the deep country that some are talking about. The selection of staff, both in the field of the judiciary and for the KPK Commission, must not be a political body. Of course, every citizen has the right to be a member of a political party, that does not bother me, that is our civil right. Of course, I do, and I suppose that, regardless of the political nature of the party, everyone in such a place must act professionally, responsibly and honestly. Only then will such a commission or any other body really do its job well and then such a commission will also be able to achieve its purpose, which is why it was actually established. With this law, however, these amendments simply do not guarantee that this commission will operate more professionally in the future, that it will have more power and that there will be less corruption in the country. Above all, I will believe that our law enforcement authorities, our commissions, act when there are concrete consequences or when we are all equal before the law. We know significant cases, including cases that the KPK has disclosed. Let me just remind you of Mayor Jankovic, the hearings, the various charges, but in the end, there is no final result. And the citizens will believe us when some epilogue, not obsolescence, but final decisions as to whether or not some of the findings are justified or justified. So I will not support this law because I doubt that it will solve the problems the KPC faces in its operation.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u99	The word has magic. Alenka Bratušek, prepare for the mag. Bojana Muršič and Mrs Eva Irgle. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Vice President. The law before us today will not solve the problem of corruption in our country. Those who have been following this point since the beginning have been able to see that, in fact, we all, in fact, see all the parliamentary groups as more than a problem in the law, a problem in the KPK Senate. It is true, however, that, when it came to the proposal that the President of the Republic should be dismissed by this incompetent Senate, you have unfortunately voted against it. Yes, the fight against corruption and the rule of law were in addition to ethics and had two of the greatest passwords of Mira Cerar and the Modern Centre Party. Unfortunately, unfortunately, from this, from the promises that have been made, we're still only left with promises, things don't change for the better, but I think they're even getting worse. The PKK, led by Stefanec, is no longer an institution to prosecute corruption, but is an institution to discredit individuals, unfortunately. Now we can read in the media that he did — even though he knows he is wrong — with the taxpayer’s money even to his deputies because he was not supposed to return one piece of money, even though it was proven to be returned. But, of course, Mr. Štefanec, with tax money, is happy to fill our courts. And with this law, as I said before, we will not solve this problem. As I have already said and repeat today, Mr Štefanec has only one strategy in his head, the 2020 strategy, but this is, unfortunately, not a strategy to fight corruption, but a strategy to keep his mandate until 2020 – so long – in a saddle. Of course, we could now also talk about our particular case. For the first and only time in history, KPK has persecuted someone because of their candidacy for political office, for the first time and for the only time; for that reason, only Mr Štefanec knows. Of course, all the cases, all the courts to the Supreme Court, said what was wrong with this procedure. The Secretary of State, who also participated in this process, I believe he knows him well and knows what mistakes were made and what mistakes were made at the time. And there's one more thing that bothers me about this marriage. The President of the Commission is happy to walk around the National Assembly, through the media, in short, to use all channels to pressure Members, how and why we should vote. And when I asked where a lobbyist contact was to be reported, there was no institution. Clearly, Mr Stefanec is the only one who can lobby limitlessly for his own benefit. It's not a good marriage. Far from solving the problems we currently have at the KPK and which the country has with corruption. But I will also give my own vote for marriage at this first stage, but I would like to correct or supplement what is yet to be added. But once again, with incompetent leadership, and this currently on KPK is, those who benefit from corruption in our country will still enjoy it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u101	The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Prepare Mrs Eva Irgle and Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The views we heard were very interesting, and under a variety of circumstances we would sign immediately, or at least under some of these positions. Corruption is a raccoon of our system, but all the misery we have is revealed, and I think it's been a while since we've done this unethical behavior of individuals. But whether this law will solve these unethical corrupt practices, I have doubts, because, as we have heard several times today, institutions do not make laws, but people do the institution. True, it has proved in the past that the law needs to be changed. When we adopted this law eight years ago, we were convinced that we had laid good foundations for a new professional, independent, transparent commission to prevent corruption; I wonder whether that is true today. It is important that the area of integrity and the prevention of corruption be strengthened by positive measures and that it avoids the unethical and corrupt conduct of individuals who want a better position in our society in this way and in another way. It took a long time for the marriage to even come to our table. The guidelines and the Commission appointed were already in 2016. We had some problems in this mandate because the transfer went from the Ministry of Public Administration to the Ministry of Justice. Personally, I believe that in four years it has been quite a long time to make these changes. We're just ahead of the elections, so I think this matter really should have been resolved long ago, because people expected radical change from us. We know that since 2014, we have been facing problems on the Commission to prevent corruption. What did we do at that time? Nothing. We were also reminded by the international public of the changes. Corruption occurs everywhere, including investigative committees of the National Assembly dealing with it. I have already mentioned several times that we Members are not actually an institution, a law-abiding institution, in order to resolve these corrupt practices, because we do not have enough of this knowledge here and not the time, because we are the legislative branch of power, we are not the judicial branch of authority, we can collect information, we continue to give them to the competent institutions that have to play their role. That corruption is present, we have already spoken in the field of public procurement, where individuals benefit from public procurement, either because of the performance of public contracts or because of the failure to carry out public contracts, which harms both the State and individuals. However, when corruption occurs in the health sector, we are really getting more and more involved, we also have cases where waiting species have been skipped, so that the individual has received certain funds and has arranged for certain individuals to come first. We are even more sensitive here and I think we need to move forward, because before the law we are all the same and we have a relatively good health system based on equal treatment, health care, which must be accessible to all under the same conditions. Therefore, once again, it is unacceptable that individuals who have money and connections and acquaintances, under the slogan, will say so, I will tell you, I believe, that certain matters will come first, both in the field of health and, I will also point out, administrative units in obtaining a building permit where procedures are being accelerated. By actually admitting or having this corruption, people are actually losing confidence both in the institutions and in us Members who have actually not done much at this time. If I actually touch this law that we have under consideration today, it is an upgrade, it is a very extensive change in the law, so I would also like to point out that we would expect to have a completely new law, because there are things that we should talk about more broadly. It bothers me that, in fact, the Commission has not taken sufficient account in the drafting of the law to prevent corruption. I am disturbed by the individuality of the candidates, because it does not bother me, but I do not know how the commission that will elect individual candidates will define this, because we know that the personality of the candidates is always seen from a subjective point of view, unless any sub-legislative regulation or regulation clearly determines which of these personality criteria for such an important function as the President of the KPK or the Deputy KPK, as well as all public servants who are employed in this body. However, I must say that I would like, by the Government, information on the criteria for the establishment of a mandate – a six-year term for President, a five-year term for Deputy KPK. In the view of the Government, it was somehow pointed out that this function of the Commission to prevent corruption coincided with the Court of Auditors. So I might want to know here how the president has a longer internship, a deputy shorter internship, while, when we look at local level, the director of the municipal administration appointed for 5 years, the mayors are appointed for 4 years, thus somehow ensuring the continuity of the municipal administration. So I'd like an explanation from the government here. But I do have a lot of thought about this lobbying. We are appointed by the people or chosen by the people, and we must listen to their opinions, their views. And what's happening to us? We're getting, I'll say, on the mountains and mountains of electronic messages. We also received just yesterday regarding Uber's electronic message sent to us by a registered lobbyist under order number 3. I'm just asking a question, and I printed this message, and I didn't read it, but I saw it because I just finished here, and I didn't read the text work at all. Do I have to report this document to the Commission to prevent corruption? Because if we have to make every contact that we have as Members elected by the people that we owe them to, one side or the other, and with our expertise to draw up our opinions, then we simply need someone who works with these emails. Also, the parliamentary groups that we welcome into the parliamentary offices of various stakeholders, which represent advantages and disadvantages, we report them, some not. Then we are once again called upon by the Commission to add further clarifications. It's just these things are really questionable to me, so in this place, I'm asking you to give me an explanation. I will also say that in the first phase I will support this marriage. However, I believe it will have to be continued. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u103	Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor. Prepare Mr Jožef Horvat and Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go, Mrs. Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, honourable Members, Mr Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice! At the outset, I would like to remind you that on 28 June 2017, in the Group of Members, we submitted a request for a meeting on the situation of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia. It is said that almost a year ago we tabled a meeting, but we have already warned, of course, how important it is to change legislation. Not entirely, as it is now ready, but that it is necessary to note this, to talk about it and then to accept some good solution that will actually plague corruption in Slovenia. And here, let me remind you, we made three recommendations at the time. In short, the National Assembly recommends that the Government prepare a detailed analysis of corruption within 6 months. That was the first recommendation. If I am not mistaken, absolutely no analysis, and not at all accurate, was done by the Ministry in this area. We then proposed the preparation of preventive legislation on corruption. And we have proposed to prepare legal solutions that will lead to more effective, faster detection, investigation and prosecution in criminal cases. We have proposed all of this in the Slovenian Democratic Party a year ago, but at the same time all these years ago we have warned that some things are urgently needed in the event of anti-corruption legislation. And now we have before us the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which is some kind of covert law for the Commission to prevent corruption, but more so later. What bothered me most personally about the whole matter was that the process of amending the Law on Integrity and Preventing Corruption was, in fact, not transparent. To the extent that it is known, the Commission has very little to do with the amendment of this legislation, even though it is a body that in some ways is most vital to the detection of corruption. When Minister of Justice Goran Klemenčič was still President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, he repeatedly stressed that he could not effectively prosecute corruption because of the need for an urgent novelty of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. If I am not mistaken, Madam Secretary of State, you were then the Vice-President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, Mr Goran Klemenčič. Today you are Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice and the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption is today the Minister of Justice. So they've got scissors and a canvas so we can fix these things right away and right away. Not just before the elections, of course, but immediately. They didn't do it. Mr Goran Klemenčič has resigned from the post of President of the Commission to prevent corruption for this reason and the entire Senate, including you, Mr State Secretary, because he is not supposed to be able to tackle corruption without political support in terms of legislation. But then, when he was successful in carrying out a project to demolish a certain person named Minister of Justice, he waited four years for anti-corruption legislation to change. Who do you think's a fool here? I know that when I finish, you will say that this does not keep clear and that the Minister of Justice has not been under this legislation since the beginning and has not been able to change it. Indeed, at the outset, this legislation was tried by the Ministry of Public Administration, but, Madam Secretary of State, I still thought that the Minister of Justice in this government was an authority and that I could say to the President of the Government and to the Minister of Public Administration: "This must be done and carried out!" He didn't do it. Now, five minutes before the 12th, he recalled the need to amend the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, with many shortcomings, and he also decided that he did not want the Commission to participate in the fight against corruption, as Mr Štefanec himself pointed out. Thus, he pointed out, among other things, that the law's amendment procedures were almost non-participation, although the changes in the law of the most respected colleagues and colleagues were affecting the Commission in order to prevent corruption, i.e. its powers and tasks. There is certainly an interesting question here: Why is Minister Klemenčič doing so? Is it also due to political impulses? Is it just because it is aware that, not as President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, nor as Minister of Justice, it has done virtually nothing to actually prosecute corruption? Let's just remember things about the bank hole, as well as other things, that I'm not talking about Iran-NLB-gate, and so on. In short, Minister Klemenčič has not done his job and is today solving the situation two months before the state-run elections. This is totally unacceptable, and it is also unacceptable and irresponsible that this is also the case in the debate of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. Why didn't the Minister open this debate as soon as he took his ministerial office? First, at the level of the Government, where I would suggest to the Minister of Public Administration that they go in the direction of amending anti-corruption legislation. Why didn't he suggest it? I'd like you to answer that, Madam Secretary of State. And that's not what I'm saying. Transparency International has also warned that the preparation of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption is too long. Too long. Why did it wait so long? I want you to answer these questions. Since, in the position of the Group of Members, my colleague has made very clear our position on this law, I will no longer go into the details of the legislation, but I want some things to open up in this debate, and I want to discuss the timetable for changes to this amendment to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption because it is crucial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u105	Mr Jožef Horvat, Mr Jani Möderndorfer and Mr Roberto Battelli are to be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I repeat, I really do not understand how a good law can be passed if two key players do not talk, do not talk to each other, the Justice Minister, as, once again, the author of this law, and the current President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. And if this National Assembly were as it should be, today this proposal or such proposals would actually go overboard, bearing in mind that we are actually in some slum just before the end of the term of office, and given that the debate is somewhere, I do not know where, on the amendment of this Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption started there in 2016 and that the Government also had this amendment to the law in its normative programme. Today we are in some sort of time crisis and two key players are not talking, and we Members should adopt a very good law. But I went to this law to read, study, and somehow automatically became tired of the thought that I had to find a public letter from the Commission's Senate to prevent corruption, written on December 2013, when the KPK Senate in the composition of Goran Klemenčič, Rok Praprotnik, Lilliana Selinšek, resigned. This letter was written two or three days after the resignation of the entire Senate. And already in 2013, when I read this letter, i.e. a public letter addressed to citizens and citizens, to all the presidents in this country, etc., I somehow understood this letter as very well-intentioned, some recipe, some recipe in fact, what we have to do once in the future in order to make the situation of anti-corruption better for us. What is a good 15 points is the 15 points that the Senate believes should be achieved in order to improve the situation, and I have already said this publicly, I have expressed some satisfaction when Mr Goran Klemenčič, the former President of the KPK, was appointed Minister of Justice, because I somehow understood that he would be able to do much in the area of anti-corruption. She was investigating a bank hole in the parliamentary commission of inquiry in the previous term, and Mr Goran Klemenčič was excellent. We invited him there as well as the President of the KPK, and he told us in a very plastic way how the boys in Tržaška on vampires agreed to a loan, one way or another. And this is a loan that we can hardly imagine: 40, 50, 60 million, not a loan for a car. And, of course, among these recommendations from this public letter, which needs to be assessed, I appreciate it, is, of course, at point 15, as I understand, a major finale, also recommended the amendment of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, or at the following points. Firstly, the abolition of the subsidiarity of this law, which will actually give him the nature of the system law. Secondly, strengthening with appropriate powers and the possibility of imposing sanctions on those supervisory powers of the PSC not exercised by other authorities and not covered by them, for example, by detection and prosecution authorities, in particular in the area of supervision of the assets of officials and corruption-exposed categories of public servants, conflicts of interest with emphasis on clientism and nepotism, in the field of business restrictions, incomparability of functions, supervision of the reception of gifts to be simplified for all public sector employees, in the field of limiting the non-public lobbyistic impact on the adoption of staff standards and financial decisions of the holders of authority and so on. Third time. Establishing a legal framework for the implementation of the preventive system and thematic controls of the Commission in public sector entities with a view to advising, strengthening integrity and identifying and addressing systemic corruption risks. Fourth time. Establishment of a Council of the Commission appointed by the National Assembly by a two-thirds majority as an independent body over the work of the PSC in terms of integrity, objectivity and effectiveness of its operation. I find it difficult to judge whether this law, this novel of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, has actually followed these recommendations from practically the same author in the December 2013 public letter. I guess not. After all, under the line of reference, the KPK is actually taking what it had today after this amendment of the law. And yet, in certain cases, ladies and gentlemen, here we are indeed going into some requirements that are not rational. Why do I give the Member, as far as I am concerned, an immediate mandate when they are confirmed here, when my mandate has been approved, I give you, the KPK, the authority that my personal account is not subject to bank secrecy? Look at him, look at my condition, look at the tides, look at the tides. Not now that there is a limit of 10,000 and a Member has to report if it exceeds 10,000, then the next month comes under 10,000, he has to report again. Or how now? This is completely insane, in one word, insane. Have my card, have a number and see all the transactions. Of course, the same should apply to ministers and so on. And not to report, I don't know, but look at my e-mails, look at my e-mails, I'll give you a private email, and I'll give you an official email, and look at how many of these lobbyist e-mails or whatever, because I think someone's telling me how to handle some marriage. And then it happens that in this pile of e-mails, I get an average of 200 a day, of course, most of the employees in the main office are missing out on what. And someone's gonna have to fall in my mailbox anyway to find out that I didn't report an email. What a problem!? All of this I want as a Member to keep it open, and let the KPK look at this data, for God's sake, let it look at my property at home. Get someone there every day. This is no problem at all, although the public somehow understands and makes it clear to us that we are the most corrupt state body. It's actually some kind of sadness and it hurts. Where half a billion are lost at the annual level, say, about half a billion in the health system, I don't know this number, and no one knows it, because you can't actually figure it out, you can't find it in the bookkeeping documents – and that's where it's actually going and it's half a billion of our total money. This is why we have the situation in the healthcare system that we have. On the grounds that they are fighting, according to their own words, the author of Mr Klemenčič's law, the Minister of Justice, the former President of the Commission and the current President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, therefore, this is a very important law that they have not been involved in this novel. This is an important reason, and it is not the only reason that I simply cannot support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u107	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Allow me, however, to list the other three who are reported to be working easier: Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Franz Jurša, and as the last Mrs Anja Bah Žibert are behind you. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Vice President. Today we are discussing a law that is, in fact, desirable or, rather, by the rules of procedure, at the request of the SDS party, to hold a general debate. I believe that, with some intention of essentially bringing this law to the attention of the committee, before the second hearing. I am surprised, however, that those who requested a debate are practically in the minority today, as far as the debate is concerned. It seems incredible to me that, at least after what I have heard from the Vice-President now, only two SDS representatives will discuss this subject but require a general debate. Well, it also speaks more or less of the fact that in fact the desire goes in a completely different direction than it was likely with some desire and sincerity to enlighten ourselves, let us talk about the breadth of this law. Member Eva Irgl said one thing in her well-known debate at the end of all the observations she had mentioned, and she said, "How can you two months before the elections?" I didn't know that we were two months before the elections, but she probably knows what the call for the president of the country will be when the elections will be, but she probably knows better than all of us. Hand to heart, those who have really followed the whole matter, and I believe that even if the debate was held last year in June, this debate would be more or less similar to Mrs Irgle's, only if she had not used the number two months before the elections, but the rest would have been the same, nothing would have changed, for the intention and intention is absolutely clear – how not to do anything to stay the way it is. It is also unusual that those who remember and have little historical memory that in fact in the SDS in the previous term were in favour of the KPK being abolished. Just take it off! They said this very clearly and loudly on the MVK several times when they even said how this would be organised. They said that part of the jurisdiction would go to the Court of Auditors, but the rest would go through prosecution and so on, in short, so that everything would be divided and we do not need this body. In this mandate, they have turned the table because, of course, this moment, the President did not correspond to them, for the reasons already stated by the fellow Member, and it is more than clear that their position is changing, not by content and purpose, but on the basis of who is leading the PKK. This is more important now and we are going to go to work ad to people, not what is more important and what we should avoid. However, regardless, it is right that we have a debate and that we also look at and shed light on certain things and proposals that the Ministry has drawn up so that we can talk today about concrete solutions. Most of you have already presented your views, and I must say that there are repeating the same questions that, I must say, in some way for me as some kind of pleonasm, the ink, because we don't really know what to repeat anymore, and then we are only saying whether we have corruption or are successfully pursuing corruption, or whether we are fighting corruption, who is responsible for this corruption because we have it. In short, it's always the same questions. And it's only right to say a few things out loud for once. I say that corruption is present all the time, but the question is, in which period it is more detected. I doubt there's been any less corruption before the KPK was gone, I doubt it. However, with the formation of the KPK, a certain part of corruption has begun to illuminate, of course, a completely different aspect, than that classic aspect, as we recognize it and only see what the Penal Code says or all other laws, which, of course, do not allow certain things or set certain standards. And so in this case, I make one such nice comparison, you know, it's about like if you say certain countries that are not in the European Union or have no specific declarations or agreements signed, let's say, I'm going to go to the health field of how much AIDS has been found in my country or HIV, for example, in Albania 20 years ago, they said that HIV is not even hepatitis. Today, when they register it and check it out, they find it's on the rise. And we can ask ourselves if, in fact, HIV suddenly appeared there or was present all the time and is now registered. Well, something similar could be said about corruption. The following question is immediately asked: Will we ever eradicate corruption? Those of you who think we will today are naive because we will not, because new and new people are always appearing and new and new holes and new and new people who are actually carefree to these issues, and it will simply be appropriate to have a certain level of risk of corruption always exist. Finally, in the past, a risk plan has also been set up and maintained by virtually all public institutions, bodies, in short, all those working in the public sector. Today, I am more wondering who is actually applying these plans, who is actually checking it out. We are now accustomed to putting these preambles, these anti-corruption clauses, into every law, virtually everywhere. Or someone will actually take that into account, but if certain risks arise later, and eventually there is a finding of corruption itself. That's why I think that kind of debate, in general, is actually kind of depressed. However, the fact that the first Integrity Act was of a kind was a novelty. Shortly after that, we realized that this was not enough, and there were changes. Well, here comes a new problem called “control concepts” – what approach we will have, how we will prepare this law in the first place. And today, for example, colleague Joseph Horvat, who sometimes sat at number 90 and today at number 1 of his parliamentary group, says he will not vote in favour of this law for one key reason, because his conclusion is that the Minister and the President of the KPK do not understand each other and do not talk. Who says you don't? Who, where do you have evidence for this? I don't know where you got this. The fact that they have a different concept and view of solving this problem is one thing. Nor do I believe that the President of the PSC could make his comments, but it is true that the question is whether all his comments and proposals have been taken into account. Where does it say that everything has to be taken into account? If so, then let us give this bill to the President of the KPK and bring it to the National Assembly, if that is the case. Only then do we have to change something else, the procedure, how this is going to go, and who is the proposer in this whole matter. That's why I think this debate is literally depressed, but that's just not how it works. Who is responsible for the reputation of the authorities in this country? First of all, the authorities themselves do their own work, work and conduct. You see, for example, colleague Joseph Horvat said and Ludmila Novak and I don't know who else mentioned that they respected Minister Klemenčič when he was still in the KPK position, that they had confidence in him because he discovered certain things because he warned about certain things, Oops, as soon as he became Minister, this confidence is no longer. It's amazing how this can change at night. Interestingly, though, we are looking for answers and solutions in misunderstandings or misunderstandings. Sorry, if this is the basis for the adoption of legislation, then three quarters of the laws in the National Assembly should not be adopted at all, because some people simply have different views and concepts. It just doesn't work. But we have agreed in this country that we have democracy, and we also know who the government is, and we also know how the procedures are. It is right that the opposition warns, and it is right that it is finally also making demands for a general debate. Why not? That's their job. But based only on the fact that this is the only and saving thing they say, but they don't listen to the other side of the whole story, and that's another. On the other hand, of course, we are all aware that we have been witnesses for the last 3, 4 years to the management of this KPC, which was not, in fact, the most honorable and proud, and that it has lost all credibility. Excuse me, who in this room or in the Slovenian public is taking the KPK seriously?Oh, my God! Not because there are so many and so many employees there, but because everyone is there, but because someone can't run and organize jobs. This is my observation, and I can say it out loud several times, although, of course, the President of the KPK has repeatedly told me through the media that this is a kind of pressure because the Member has allowed himself to say it. I'm sorry, why?Oh, my God! Is it untouchable? Can't we even give public criticism anymore? Is that what we want? I'm sorry, it's not like that, and it can't be like that! Personally, I must say that I am extremely disappointed, because we have seen in fact in the existing law that we have quite a few holes that the President of the PKK has provided us with with with his actions when we were not actually able to react. My colleague Horvat is unhappy because, on the one hand, he says that KPK should just stick to his account and watch every day what the situation is in his account. Of course, I paraphrase what he said and what he said about his property. Well, I don't want to because I don't know why this should be necessary. Because I think it is the duty of every official, by law, as we have him, to report changes, of course, if it is later found that he did not do so and that he did not respect the laws, well, here he has to react to the PKK. And this is this function, at least today we have it written down like this. If we ever change it later, it's different. So I ask myself: Is the task of the PKK to prevent or prosecute corruption, or is it to identify? These are different things that are actually running away from us all. And, of course, each one interprets it in his own way. What is even more important is that, above all, we all forget that the Integrity Act has actually been enacted, and I repeat this once again, certain acts of risk or the identification of corruption that the rest of the legislation does not know. And so, of course, today a lot of people are asking themselves, no, no, no, no, no, let the KPK not find out, let the prosecutors find out, let everyone else and others. And here, of course, was the first stumbling block at the first so-called. a case-by-case case where the assets of the Presidents are identified, the champions of the parties where, of course, two of them received a negative report. And this is where it all broke. And that's the problem, because we got some new quality, which is actually no one wanted to admit. And you have to admit that. Because we were dissatisfied because someone began to realize that it was actually necessary to continue with some superstandard and to raise slowly certain standards in order to clear up certain concepts on our own. That's the problem, that's all. Everything else is just politics and, of course, that everyone is creating their own way of thinking about how this corruption should actually be detected in our country. Who is responsible for corruption in the country? Excuse me, all citizens. Of course, there's a hierarchical scale here, and you know who it's meant to be. To those who have public powers, to those who have the power, to those who work with public funds, to those who decide and so on and so on. And it is also appropriate to do so. What does marriage bring? The law brings a lot of news and changes that would in some way facilitate, of course in this concept, as proposed by the Ministry, a certain work of the KPK. Mrs Irgle said there was no debate. I apologize, but there was a round table, there was a consultation about this last year at the hotel, I was there myself, there were opposition MPs, and there really was that SDS wasn't there, and that's true, yes. But that's their problem, not mine anymore. They can only point to that when they think it's right to call. There we also discussed in this direction, for it was then a great dilemma, what to do when you want to call off the Senate members or who it is that is driving the process. Bratuškov’s colleague mentioned that the majority were not for this process to go to the end, which he himself proposed. That's not true. I was also for a simple reason because things had to lead to conflict. Sometimes it's simple in this country to bring things to conflict. And only in conflict will we get a new quality and, finally, a judge, what's right and what's wrong. And if not the other, let's find out where the deficit is in this marriage. In fact, you all remember the situation when the President of the Republic spoke out loud that he had no jurisdiction, only if the National Assembly suggested this to him. And he's been pointing his finger at us all along. Our legal advisers and the majority in this congregation, of course, are not our jurisdiction, we have no basis, we cannot do this. So there's a problem somewhere. Who's gonna do that? But while we were talking and discussing who would take this first step and identify who would have greater political harm as a result of this act, the matter progressed. What's more, we have absurdity, you're all following him today and reading what's going on with the former Senate member – and I'm not defending her, not far from not thinking at all. More and more, it gives the KPK the appearance that it is still dealing with itself, not with the primary work, the basic work that the law imposes on it. And, of course, this is a key problem, and that is why I was happy at the beginning when, in fact, this procedure was still a little clearer in the original proposal. Well, now this procedure is not as mentioned inside as I wished, but still. But I am interested, very interested in making certain changes, because only with changes in the law will we be able to take one step further. It's the only way. It won't work otherwise. Of course, today everyone is predicting something that they will not give support. See, in fact, there will be a thorough debate at the second reading committee. At that time, the KPK president will also have the opportunity to come to the committee and tell us his views, what he now writes to all Members, what he does not accept, and at the same time welcomes some changes and so on, but what he lacks is what is not in force. I have personally taken note of the news that NGOs or interest groups should now report their contacts, or that they can influence the adoption of certain legislation with their impact. I'm up for it, but in a more specific way, what it really means. I give an example, the Medical Chamber is determined by law when it participates in the drafting process and where it actually expresses its interest and makes direct, purely specific proposals for amending the legislation. We have seen this recently when we discussed the Law on Medical Services. And here there's no dilemma at all, I don't see any serious problem here, that the Medical Chamber should report it far from here. But I do have a problem when the Medical Chamber talks about the Patient Rights Act. We're talking about the patient's rights, not his medical rights. And more than clearly, in the past it has been found that it was abuse of doctors in their work, when they actually directly affected patients and collected signatures for patients and collected signatures for the Patient Rights Act. What was said at the time? That the doctor can also do this in his job. I'm horrified. I'm appalled that the patient doesn't come to the doctor to talk to him about the legislation, but it comes to him because he has medical problems. He looks at him in a white robe like a God-fearing patient because he fears for his health. If I accidentally told him, no, perhaps he could be, so simple as to think, receiving less care, so automatically attach his signature. Here, let's say the KPK should take action because the police won't because it's not in the law, if you understand me, neither the prosecution nor anyone else. This seems to me to be one of those dilemmas that will need to be clarified very clearly below, but of course I am talking about all stakeholders. There are unions here, in short, all those involved in drafting legislation. A colleague mentioned Transparency International Slovenia, wondering why this law is waiting so long for consideration and is irresponsible and blah blah blah. In that context, she was just talking. Of course, she used this organization, although she did not agree with it very much, only for the purposes of her own discussion; but not to say another side of the medal – Transparency International Slovenia wanted this law to go on anyway. She didn't say that. Because it was waiting and waiting and waiting. Sometimes it is necessary to understand a certain context and also the chosen words, which are designed only for their own needs and purpose, what you want to achieve. Finally, we should say what seems personal to me, which is when it is time to discuss such a law. Anytime. Anytime. I'm sorry, I'm not going to agree to the thesis that Members are doing business four months before the elections, or how you imagine it. We're not talking about the Law on Elections to the National Assembly. This would certainly be distasteful to discuss one month before the call for elections; certainly not the law that everyone would say at the beginning of the term that this is not the first thing we should be dealing with, in the middle of the mandate, we would say that we have a lot of other work, but at the end of the term we will say that now is not the time. It's always the right time. Here I say very clearly – I will support this law because I think it is right to move forward and clarify certain issues and also tell the Slovenian public whether we want to change and what and what concept. If we want to end the KPK, let's say this out loud, if we want more control, let's say this out loud. Whether the KPK, as the President of the KPK has stated, will be the only lamp that points to a particular phenomenon and with some survey to determine where it is and alerts to irregularities; at the same time, it controls the property status of its officials in the country. Whether it will be a body that will also carry out criminal proceedings, or whether it will be a body that will conduct more than criminal proceedings or something. I think that we Members, on the basis of this document, are obliged to say this out loud, not to refer to corruption and not to eradicate it. Thus the debate does not even begin or end because it cannot, because it is too general and, most importantly, it is not the purpose of this law. The purpose of the law is also to manage all risks when it comes to corruption itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u109	Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. As a last resort, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert should be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u110	Vice President, thank you for your word. On my part also a nice greeting to the representatives of the Ministry of Justice! Perhaps three things that are in my mind, which in some ways must be highlighted, even though some individuals have already done so today. Let me begin by saying that, somehow, it is my own self that, when it came to transferring these obligations from the Ministry of Public Administration to the Ministry of Justice, I made a certain mistake to support this issue. I do not think it was right that the Justice Anti-Corruption Commission resettled, in fact, then solves in some way the problem of this commission or the entire area of corruption. We have corruption in the country and it must be suppressed in an organised manner. But I don't think so. In fact, this process of drafting the law has been too long. I would say this in our own words, in phrases, from the occasion so - the whole mandate has been fulfilled. And he actually came to the table of our Members, the representatives of the people – at least that's how the Constitution says we are – just before the end of the term of office. It's not too late, but things should have come a little early. I think it would be wise, too, to make a public presentation of the opinions that the profession and all the public who are interested in this area are facing there. But I'm gonna say one more thing here. I do not have the same opinion as my predecessor Jani Möderndorfer, who had discussed earlier that it was easy and just enough time to say everything. No, there wasn't enough time or some of you didn't want to face it. In the final stage of the Commission's anti-corruption Senate, its President and Vice-President, should somehow give this opportunity to discuss this matter. As far as I have information, the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission has proposed to the President of the Government that a meeting be held and that you are discussing this matter; but you are not. That is why I have certain concerns and I would like to point out that I am a proponent of public representation of opinions. When you are self-critical, it is also right for individuals who were members of the same political party to participate in this candidate Mr Stefanec, then he was good and theirs; today they speak very differently, talk about the bad work of the Commission to prevent corruption and expose negative matters. Yeah, maybe it's really good that you're critical of yourself, but this isn't just about being critical of yourself, it's about being critical of your own, it's about being critical of your own. In order not to speak only of his observations, which are in a more negative way, I would also like to point out some of the minor things that my colleague Horvat has already talked about — the high number of applications, the lobbying. At least I believe that this administration can undermine the work of the Commission to prevent corruption. For example, the definition of lobbying is an impact on the decision-making of Members and Members. Here we must not forget that we are Members and Members of the people and that we are working in public. What some representatives of civil organisations or others wish to present to us in certain areas, we are simply not professional and in some ways also help us to solve certain problems. It is not said that there is lobbying for every matter. I wonder if there is any country with such a lobbying regime as we have in Slovenia, I would like to receive an appropriate response. I have not heard of such a country in Europe or in the world. Article 4 of the current law states: “Any indiscretion of a lobbyist with lobbyists who intends to influence a person or decision-making procedure shall be considered to be the subject of lobbying.” What, in practice, is involved in unchallenged contact? That's what I'd like to get an answer for. Members and Members, as well as our employees, professional staff, we receive e-mails daily; sometimes you skip mail accidentally or you are absent, you are on sick leave and you do not do so. Does this mean that this is already a lobbyist contact? And also this matter, which is linked to the transfer of responsibility to the staff of the Commission. Who's gonna answer here now? If the staff actually solve the matter, they will finally resolve it, the President of the Commission or the Senate of the Commission will not see who the person responsible is now. It is known that this is the first person in the institution; in this case this will not be the case. I must also say that it is in public to feel that, after the departure of the Vice-President of the Commission, there is peace on this anti-corruption committee and that, according to some public statements, this commission is now functioning smoothly without one human resources solution that is not yet available. Finally, I would like to point out once again, I would like to make a public presentation of my opinions, and in no case will I be happy to support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u111	Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Chairman. I had to smile a little, because in a very large part I agree with my colleague Jurša's debate. However, not to make it appear that we are repeating ourselves in some matters, but in my view I have already said that, in view of the very process of drafting this law, it would be necessary to make a public presentation of the opinions. Why? Once again, the Government's legislative service has warned the minister that this is a matter of such importance that we need a new law and not just a novelty of law; this is the first thing that is not to be taken as by the way. Secondly, on the proposal of the law they also responded in different associations, one of which is also the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, they have specific concerns. Thirdly and indeed, it is unacceptable that no meeting could be held between the Minister and the President of the KPK Senate in the drafting of a law on the prevention of corruption and some integrity. The president of the Senate went so far as to ask the President of the Government to take care of these matters. I don't care who's drawn to each other, I don't care, and that's irrelevant. Mr Klemenčič is Minister and has to do his job, but on the other hand, we have a Senate President who has asked for this mother to be discussed. Even in kindergarten, children can deal with each other in the end, but that personal offenses, whatever the case, may come so far as to allow a minister to ignore a conversation that will certainly help to supplement, perhaps some adjustments, or just an exchange of views on this matter. But that's not the kind of conversation that happened. Therefore, once again, if there were to be – and I hope that there would be support, as regards the public presentation of opinions, I hope that such a confrontation will also take place. As it has been said, the various round tables and so forth do not help if those who know this matter best face it daily and perhaps know what is what a step forward would be, what is what it would be like to let go, can't sit together; then every proposal for a law is superfluous. Previously, we were told that you were one for a commission such as the KPK to be abolished. That there will be no mistake and that we will open up again, although already known, we know four types around us, how countries face preventing corruption. One is that we have groups of countries where they have a non-professional advisory body that advises governments on anti-corruption policy. These are, for example, the countries: Cyprus, Georgia, Germany, Slovakia. Then we have a group of countries that have a professional advisory body, which is composed either of the Ministry of the Interior or of the Ministry of Justice, such as Austria, Belgium, Estonia and so on, that I will not list everyone. And we have a group of countries that have no such job, no KPK. But it's not about not fighting corruption. These countries, such as Denmark and Sweden, where corruption is the most successful, are the most successful in fighting corruption, so they do not need any authorities. However, we also have countries of the type of Slovenia that have the matter regulated as it has. And here we find countries like the Balkan countries and so on. In short, nothing special. This should also be discussed in this country. What does a commission bring to us when we talk on the one hand about banking corruption, and banking crime, which is also related to corruption when we have a KPC, is informed by its president about money laundering, and billions of euros; it does nothing. Does such a commission actually help us?Oh, my God! On the other hand, we have the highest level of corruption in the field of health when individuals can come into these systems and determine how they will function; however, it does not stop. Indeed, there is a new law ahead of us, but if we take a good look — what? On the one hand, I'm not going to say there's no good solution, no, I'm not going to say that; but I'm going to say the following. It introduces new bureaucratic barriers for Slovenian municipalities. And here I ask again for a calculation of how they will know how the average of municipalities will be raised on this account. We've got the guy's solution now that his assets will not be reported once a year, but every month. I'm asking you nicely, you're looking again for the little things where it's completely unnecessary. But where we are actually talking about the problem of corruption, we are not doing what should be done in this country. There's also talk of getting gifts and so on. We have come so far sometimes that in the National Assembly we do not know whether we have to report the calendar to the anti-corruption commission or not, including the pencil, or when we go on a business trip and give us small material there, then we are looking through Slovenia for information on how much this amount is, so that by chance no one would report anything. That's funny. However, the fact that we are missing is a source of money in an area that taxpayers have had to rehabilitate on several occasions. On the other hand, we have a health system, where we also have a waiting line because of corruption, as a result, we have citizens who do not come to the list in time or who are late for their treatment. Here I see no addition or progress in this sense. Just a little more joke. Mr Möderndorfer spoke in particular about the debate of colleague Eva Irgl. Good thing she was discussing it because I don't know what else to talk about. However, I have listened to the problem in many debates and even in opinions today, because not everyone in the KPK Senate understood each other. I don't know; whether we're changing the law for SDH when we have our resignations or whether the RTV Programme Council was a pretty good time without a president because they didn't understand each other. Some people just don't understand each other, but the fact is that the Senate is working, we have reports on the table. More than that, we should deal with why these reports say that there is a great risk when it comes to adopting legislation, that we should learn about TES 6 and point out, for example, the second track. I think there's a problem. Some want to keep talking about how problematic this Senate is. Now we will need new criteria for who will be able to be in this Chamber, so that we will then always reach the members of the Senate, as I have already said, Klemenčič, Kos, the Praparatnik. The agent – he was incredibly experienced when he came to the KPK, he really had the basis for taking this place and fighting corruption. And then that vehement resignation of the then commission, if we're a toothless tiger, we can't do anything. For the political account in this country, they were ideal; as much damage as that KPK compound did, we are still paying today, because a lot of things could have been different and a lot of things could have been realized, and then they couldn't. So really in this country, let's start dealing with concrete problems by really doing corruption, really taking a step forward in making people feel that corruption is unacceptable. Not hunting individuals with some gifts, not going through some bureaucratic stuff at the local level, because they're funny. There are no bureaucratic moves to report every detail for a month. What's the added value here? That's sand in your eyes. Let's start fighting corruption where we have to, by having an effective police force, an effective prosecution and, above all, an effective judiciary. So that we do not face court decisions that say - No, and the commission of inquiry cannot get information on who went to visit NLB administrations. Run, come on! People have to pay for it, and on the other hand, citizens should not be aware of who knocked on a door. Is it perhaps the fight against corruption? Perhaps this law brings such things in order to prevent such conduct from the judicial branches of government. And also this; whether this legislation brings one court to decide when it comes to documentation and will not pass it on, while the other court will hand it over. Run, come on. However, I believe it is of great interest that the team, as is currently the case and which is somehow chaired by Mr Štefanec at the KPK, should no longer happen. That's what I believe. But it's painful here because it was talking about infected boots or shoes with fungi, because it was talking about some of the vices of the predecessors, because it was said that there was no prelude. Yeah, that's the problem. But it is not for this reason that I do not know how many pages will be allocated to what will be called the anti-corruption commission in the future. Please tell me that you want this committee and that this commission is successful only when it is in our position when a government needs to be overthrown, regardless of the fact that the Constitution and legislation are in breach; but that corruption and the fight against corruption are the least important.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u113	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Darko Stare, gets the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! I will try to respond as closely as possible to the questions about concrete solutions that you find inappropriate, controversial or problematic. Before this, I would like to start with the fact that the debate was very general and touched, in many ways, the content which, as you individual debaters have already identified, does not touch the content or purpose of this law. The Anti-Corruption Act lays down and prescribes measures and methods that limit conflict of interest, which ensure greater transparency in the public sector, which prevent and restrict the conduct of responsible people in public functions and which ensure the integrity of their activities. In any event, the Commission’s procedures identifying such risks may not constitute any liability, criminal or criminal, or administrative, when it comes to identifying risks that constitute a potential for corruption. This seems important to me because we know what we can expect from this law. This law does not mean investigating corruption offences; it does not mean investigating crimes within miles of social systems. This sometimes makes it difficult to discuss very constructively because I feel that we are not talking about the same thing. In addition, at this principle level, I would like to emphasise something else in order to raise awareness, as I will continue to talk about the individual solutions proposed in this law. The responsibility identified under this law and expected in the context of the ethics and integrity of public authorities is not the same as liability. Responsibility means that someone is qualified to explain to the public his decisions, his actions, his commitment and efforts to comply with the applicable rules, laws, including ethical codes, and that he is willing to take responsibility for his professional mistakes, regardless of the form in which they appear — whether it is intentional or reckless. It is simply a matter of ensuring that this individual’s responsibility ensures that, due to his own mistakes, shortcomings that may occur, in any event, but some are also conscious, that the representative of the authority, either an official, an official in a position, does not burden the work of that authority which leads him. That the public, other authorities and he himself deal with his actions; not with the responsibility he has as either an official or as the chairman of an authority. And that's the responsibility we're talking about. The measures and methods set out in this Act, the prevention of conflicts of interest, the strengthening of transparency, the strengthening of integrity through the method, I do not know, the integrity plans, as they have been called in today's debate, are methods and measures that ensure that there is also a risk that people who do not have such a sense of responsibility and integrity are neither coming nor placed in such situations. But it's not about finding out now if someone committed a crime. In public space and in these debates, it has succeeded in individual stakeholders who are in any way linked to individuals on a political sideline, on a ceho line or on a friendly, customeristic basis, of any kind; they are not prepared to see and communicate to their colleagues horizontally or vertically that their conduct is not appropriate, that it is irresponsible for a body to be burdened by an institution of the public sector; and that it is expected that someone will withdraw until it is clarified that an authority can carry out its business in peace. These are the objectives and mission of the measures, methods and powers that the Commission has as its primary preventive authority; far from being a repressive body. Although in some part it is also a repressive body because it is at the same time a criminal body, but not because of corruption, but because of the failure to comply with the legal obligations of public officials, especially civil and local officials and certain positions of highest officials, because they do not fulfil their obligations under this Act in relation to operating restrictions, in relation to declarations of property status, in relation to the non-compatibilability of functions and could still be listed. These are status violations, which are clearly a violation of the law, as it is known that if someone drives through a red light, it is a violation. This is not a science in the investigative sense or in the sense of identification and proof. That's what I wanted to say for the introduction. And this legal framework, which we are now improving and making efforts, I must stress this, according to our assessment, in constructive cooperation, including with the Anti-Corruption Commission; it is a fact and we do not know that the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption has never responded to invitations, or now the Deputy has. We have sent invitations for coordination meetings to the Commission to prevent corruption, never to ad personnel, but to the body, because then the decision of the chairman is primary, whether he will come alone or come with the team; he has never responded. And this assumption in the debates that Minister Klemenčič and Mr Štefanec are at odds is absolutely not true, that is not true. Therefore, all the thoughts and conclusions made on this basis are misleading, and it is a waste of time and energy at all. The fact is also that I can list you here, but I think it's a pity for your time now, but I think it's sufficiently specific and precise in the material how many meetings with the committee there were, how many written communications there were. Here I have written in a reminder that we have received from the commission several rounds of coordination comments and proposals to the twenty-four articles of the law and that we have taken 18 fully into account, some in part, some we have not. Then, in the second round, we received them to the twenty-six articles, and we took them into full account in thirteen cases. It was a constructive one, usually cooperation at all stages of the procedure, but the fact that in all cases we did not have to agree with everything is that the Ministry is ultimately responsible for the preparation of the proposal and that the government, which is responsible and also substances, justifies some solutions. We can't all feel the same way about each other. That's why sometimes I say, more about a joke than really, but it's a very significant Indian proverb.Where two people think the same thing, one is superfluous. Therefore, let this opposing opinion give birth to a new quality; the conflict is not in itself bad; it can be very constructive and constitutes a basis for synergy. I would like to say that these methods and measures, which are not repressive measures, want to improve, on the basis of the Commission's proposals, on the basis of experience in applying the provisions of this law from 2010 onwards, also in order to reduce the risks, irregularities in the use of these methods and to increase the legal certainty of all those involved with the Commission, of all the people involved in these proceedings, and to strengthen and increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the Commission's action to prevent corruption. And as you've learned, it's a great truth. The law itself will not save anything. I'll give you an example because I can afford it, from my own experience, because I worked four years on a committee. In the same legislative framework, in the previous Chamber, under the same rules of the game, the same measures, powers and so on, every nine days the Commission issued a finding on a specific case, a system opinion, general explanations and so on; now this happens once every 140 days, although there is less doubt as to the correct application of individual provisions because they are already known to the Supreme Court. In the end, everything depends on how competent they are, how responsible they are, how committed they are, how they are to carry out their tasks, the mission and the public interest expressed in this particular case by the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. For this reason, we have also proposed in the current amendment solutions which, in our belief in the first stage, strengthen the conditions that will ensure greater quality of the selection process and the appointment of members of the Senate of the Commission, greater transparency of this process, as this will have to be all public, will be recorded. Before the decision is taken, the President of the Republic will also be able to do so by appointing a suitable candidate to be proposed by a competent commission, following a proposed law after a public debate, in which he will discuss exactly what the function of such a commission is to be known as a strategy, measures, methods, that is, some way to achieve the mission, as seen by those who run for this job. This will systematically ensure that the procedure is more transparent and that the decision is made by all those with powers, transparency and, I am sure, better than behind closed doors. We also tighten the conditions. We tighten the conditions in a way that there will be a lower degree of politicisation or candidate politics in order to require higher competences, qualifications for such work; in particular, competences in the sense of saying that candidates for these jobs must have at least 3.5 years of experience in this area, where they will work for five or six years after they are appointed. Here I would answer the question of honourable Member Muršič that we are not now interfering with the six-year terms of office for the President and the five-year term for deputies. This has been the case since 2010 since ZIntPK was adopted. However, the logic is that it appoints the President and the Vice-Presidents of the Republic, who has a five-year mandate to renew himself, that he is not the same President; assuming that the mandates expire. At the same time, for 6 years, half the mandate is given in the parliamentary space, the party, the National Assembly. However, as regards the relationship between the mandate of the President and the deputies, this difference is due to the continuity of the work of a body, in which case the Commission. If everyone comes forward, then they can spend half a year, one year to become fully operational, and so is a transfer of experience that can then be partially modified with the new President. But in principle, it is a transfer of experience; it is by not suddenly being replaced by a complex Senate. Thus, this solution is also explained in the law adopted in 2010, the basic one that is now being amended. I'm sorry, I'm skipping a little bit about the obvious when they're also referring to the comments made by the Association of Municipal Communities that we're putting more administrative burden on them now. This comment is not concrete anywhere, nor in their letter, but it is only written that for them it is now a change in the greater burden and that they expect that in the financial consequences of the law we will also foresee a higher average – what the state gives to the municipalities. However, in no part of them is any more burdensome because the obligations of the municipalities or bodies of the municipality, in particular the municipal administration, are in this, and this is already in force in the existing law, that they must communicate, cyclically, within one month at the latest, lists of officials or officials responsible for public procurement and are liable to the property situation, reporting; and data on the existence of an official, in this case, such as the mayor, the sub-disciplinary, the share, the owner, the co-owner in the supervisory authorities of an economic company and so on, due to the prohibition of restrictions on business. As a method of preventing the risk of corruption, all employees in this body must notify this to the Authority and the Authority must notify each change to the Commission within 30 days where that central record is. This already exists, we don't interfere, it doesn't change. But I will read to you that you will also see a way of thinking that is legitimate, but simply from our point of view and the purpose of such legislation is absolutely unacceptable. The Association of Municipal Communities has written that it is necessary to state that applicants from the debtors, i.e. the Government from the debtors, the municipalities in this case, require increasing activity, attention and consequently responsibility, which is why they expect a higher average. That's absolutely unacceptable. We are obliged, by definition, to all those who are in positions of responsibility either state or local authorities, to act for the benefit of the community by law, regulations and more or less by ethical codes, where they exist. This is an expected duty, this is integrity, it is unintegrated for me to expect this to be paid extra because it reminds me of that story that was absurd when we had a lot of information in the media area about when Greece was in a financial difficult situation when it was revealed that some people were getting an allowance because they were coming to work and so on. These are unrealistic things, and I don't think that this is expected and is beyond those values that we very often refer to when we compare our solutions to Scandinavian ones. We are a society in which values are such that we need significantly more incentives in the form of commandments, even if they are in regulations, laws, regulations and so on, because clearly certain things do not happen themselves, and they happen if an external factor encourages us or sometimes commands us to accept something. This is our reality, it is not bad, but in this context it is also necessary to understand such legal solutions as an incentive to limit certain values or risks to the greatest extent possible when it comes to public authorities. And it's the same as lobbying. Here I have a list of countries in Europe – Austria, Estonia; then in the European Commission, there is a mandatory register of Lobitarian applications in the European Parliament. It is not compulsory in the European Commission in the European Parliament. But the fact is, you can't come if you don't register, for what purpose, in the accession control system: Lithuania, the Netherlands, Slovenia. And then the non-binding, and in fact these things are reported: Portugal, Great Britain, Poland, Cyprus, not to mention. It's basically just an indicator of how sometimes we do something just because someone else expects us to do it because we obviously respect it more than we do ourselves. If we assess that corruption is a problem, that the problem of non-fulfilment, non-implementation of responsibility, I think it is right and normal that we deal with ourselves with measures to manage such risks; but not because someone prescribes it for us, it is expected of us. From this point of view, I also think it is important to stress this in the context of the measures and methods that this law prescribes and assumes that this is what strengthens – responsibility and so on. Given that I am also now a politician, in this function, and in the respected and valued political temple of democracy, I will say this: responsibility in the sense of the word, when I initially stressed the difference between false responsibility and responsibility, is in the context of corruption, which we are talking about today, we can be interesting in this context if I compare Germany, Austria, Sweden or any other country. There is also corruption, and there is crime, and there are also risks of corruption in terms of conflict of interest, incompatibility of functions and so on. The only difference is that when this is revealed and discovered, the authorities responsible and responsible shall act and follow a process and a decision in a relatively short time. With us, we practically all know everything, corruption in health care, corruption, I don't know where; but nothing happens. This is because our values and responsibilities are obviously so weak that we often prefer to subject ourselves to some false solidarity in the face of false solidarity, false solidarity in a group — political, friendly, or interesting, sometimes because of money. Therefore, we tolerate something that, at personal level, everyone knows and knows that it is illegal or even absolutely unacceptable for such or other reasons as are prohibited. And nothing happens, it's what we live with; then we expect, even in such debates, that one law will solve all this problem. This law encourages these risks to be reduced and more manageable. And for this reason, on the basis of the experience of the Commission, the proposals, including the OECD, GRECO, other stakeholders in this process, we are strengthening these individual institutions in order to ensure that the Commission works as effectively and effectively as possible, and in particular the responsibilities of those leaders and responsible officials, in whose miles this Commission finds some irregularity or infringement. And also honourable Member Novak told Minister Klemenčič that we were dissatisfied with the KPK because we found certain problems, shortcomings and irregularities, including suspicions of crimes or in health care, within the framework of the bank hole; then nothing happens. And the first task the Minister performed in this role, with this awareness, is that we have actually joined in amending the Penal Code, amending the Law on State Prosecution, amending the Law on Courts, amending the Law on Lawyers, amending the Law on Judicial Service and the Order of Justice. All these laws have been passed by you, honourable Members. More than 30 of them were and in many parts were regulated precisely by institutions, procedures and methods that limit the risk of corruption and limit non-integrity or provide systemic conditions for the more effective functioning of the immune system, as we would like to say. The information system, the equipment, we've strengthened them, including the D.A.'s office. But that's the repressive part. All this has happened, and sometimes, I will honestly tell you, it is difficult to listen, because when you come to a responsible job and see, you realize what needs to be done, either on the basis of your own experience or on the basis of legitimate expectations of the public, parliament, other responsible professional services, then you have to do it in a time window of priority. It is not possible to do everything at once, at the same time; not in the right way at all, because procedures are prescribed. This law was already made last year, and then there was a political procedure to come to a decision and to this stage to talk about it today. And I think it is right for us to talk, I would just like to talk more specifically about individual solutions in this law, if they can be further improved or improved, modified or supplemented. In this context, I would also like to comment on the question concerning the lobbying of the honourable Member of Jurša that exactly what you said in this lobbying debate should significantly burden the procedures before the committee on lobbying. This is an interesting paradoxical situation; in this bill we are amending Article 68, where we are dealing with precisely these situations, which are inconsiderate, irrational in terms of the CAP as well. If someone receives an e-mail message from someone who doesn't even say he's a lobbyist, doesn't even say on behalf of any interested organization, but just writes something; the Member, any of the lobbyists may not even be at work, does not look and so on and then is in the process of not giving a report in three days. And in some ways it is an attempt at lobbying, which does not even have all the elements already under the existing law, which are prescribed that there must be an indiscretion, the content must be an influence on the decision of the body regarding the regulation and so on; at the same time, it is stipulated that only those who are registered lobbyists or so-called wrong lobbyist can lobby. However, according to the existing law, individuals who are elected are, say, trade unions, or legal representatives of companies, economic interest associations and so on, who, by definition in their function, represent these interests. They do not need to be registered as lobbyists; but their content, their purpose, when they reach some ministers or lobbyists, is lobbying. And these are wrong lobbyists, and they too must fulfill their obligations. None of this is fulfilled when you receive an email from Dark Staret — whether you could contact him for a change in this law. No element has been completed. Well, what's paradoxical? That in the coordination phase – this was one of the last meetings, when I personally collaborated with the KPK representatives, but unfortunately there was no president or any of the deputies – we proposed and opposed it. They want it to be lobbying and it's mandatory to communicate and it doesn't change. So if you get an e-mail that you have to report this in three days, a record of an attempt at lobbying. We are against this because it does not make sense to us, there is no added value; but the burden of the system on the KPK. This is, for example, one such thing that I hope deeply, and I expect you to support this bill proposal, to be further discussed and we will be able to discuss these things even more deeply on the committee, to face arguments and to accept, if even in the form of amendments, any better solutions. But there aren't any. Most often, we disagree. In order not to make it very personal, I have a list here because of ourselves, and also because of you, if necessary, we will give you all the concrete suggestions on specific articles, specific institutes, what the representatives of the commission who were in the working group have given you and what the Senate President has given you. As I said, the vast majority of things have been taken into account, but at this conceptual level, only what you received in the letter was problematic, as far as the personality is concerned, that this is not appropriate, as far as appointment and resolution are concerned, and as far as this limitation of the competence of the commission to identify corruption is concerned. I'm going to put it here like I said before, and I'm going to use one comparison. You can give me the best phone that exists on the market right now, but if I don't know what functions it has, how it's used, I'll stay at the best of faith to call what kind of message it's written and that's it. And it also depends on how much someone is capable of using them; now I am not specifically talking about the commission, but I am speaking in principle. And in these cases, we assess that the effect or the work of the Commission should be significantly more focused on the basic mission, what the President of the Commission himself says is that it is a primary preventive body, not a repressive body. I don't know, it may also indicate, it shows their output, there are five findings in concrete cases, and one of them is on detected corruption in three years. But we must be aware that what we are limiting now is not limited to restricting the work of the Commission, but to allow it to work more effectively. Since every breach of integrity, including by law and commission, is not a violation, it is not corruption; however, every corruption is also a violation of integrity. And in this sense, it is important for the work of the body to identify these risks in individual miles, in individual officials and then expect those responsible, those appointed, to resolve their business. And here we have a problem — to find out a lot and then nothing happens. But here again is what I said, and this is a matter of selection, negative selections of the quality of the personnel and procedures that allow sometimes incompetent, irresponsible people to come into individual functions and more out of personal, egotistic or other interests sometimes do not do what they should or do otherwise than is right or expected of them in their functions. This depends again on the values and the system's performance. We are now talking only about the systemic framework and, in our belief, this is very encouraging to ensure that this system framework is more effective in determining accountability; but, as I say, not guilt, there are other bodies for this. Another issue was the transfer of responsibilities, honourable Member Jurša, to Commission staff. It is simply what is already in the law in force. We have the Law on Offences that regulates; sometimes they have been judges for offences; now they are individual bodies, so-called criminal authorities, and they are running rapid infringement proceedings. And a body which is a college body such as the AVK, such as the KPK, has two possibilities – that they also make decisions in college, so it is regulated in the Competition Agency; or that individual authorised persons who have special licences are tested under the Offences Act, that they are competently qualified to conduct these rapid criminal proceedings. And since the beginning, the KPK has, say, ten, fifteen authorised officials, who run infringements in proceedings and issue decisions, are signed as a criminal authority. At the same time, for example, the Head of the Supervisory and Investigations Service, the Rules of Procedure published in the Official Journal, have the power to dismiss it when it finds that a declaration is unreasonable, incomplete, anonymous, without content, without evidence, so that it can focus on those matters that are important and where it is realistic to expect that you can discover something by proceeding, you can come to some conclusion. They already have the power under the applicable rules and internal general legal acts to decide on procedures with hidden notifiers. And we are now very clear about these things in order to make things that are stately simple; I will give an example if someone does not report a property situation within 30 days of taking office or after leaving, and this is determined, say, in three months or if someone declares it, it is a criminal procedure, for which there is no need to burden the Senate to meet and make a decision. And that's how this is already happening and we're talking about it. However, if the Senate so decides, if they so wish the leadership, the President or the Senate member, they can adopt a different policy and decide to conduct and decide criminal proceedings as a college body. But this is the autonomous right of the commission, the Senate – and they can do it now, there is no obstacle and there is no future. When we come to these specific cases, you see that the debate can be very interesting, and the arguments can be interesting. I am confident that, with the expectation that you will support this proposal, we will be able to discuss these matters in a very thorough, qualitative manner at the Committee's second reading, and also to face arguments. It's not a big science. It is simply that what the OECD, GRECO, has proposed, is what we have learned from the experience of the KPK, the previous, the present, what the Supreme Courts have said is that this is now being implemented, that matters will take place as quickly as possible and that the system and the KPK can be more successful and effective. That's what this is about. And on these individual cases, I could still list individual solutions for you, but I focused on what I wrote down here, on questions or on the dilemmas of honourable Members and Members; I apologize, maybe I skipped something. Most importantly, it seems to me that there is no specific new provision, except for the possibility of having the power to propose a review to the Court of Auditors when something is found that they can propose a measure to the President to replace someone, but this will not be binding; it will be substanceed by their procedure by finding it. And corruption as a corruption in the narrowest sense of the word, because you need to know, it is understandable that if we used the Slovenian term corruption, any corruption is not a crime; but corruption, as defined by this law already – we do not interfere with the definition of corruption – essentially contains all the signs of officially persecutable crimes. And the law already in force in Article 23 states that if the Commission, in its application procedures or in its own activities, identifies the signs of an officially persecutable crime, it is obliged to transmit this to the detection body — the police or the prosecution body — to the prosecution. And it is already laid down in the law in force because the criminal procedure of which the values most important in society are subject is therefore also the most protected and even the most sanctioned if they are infringed is essentially dominant. Therefore, in such a case, the Commission may not publish, if under the applicable law, a finding of a specific case, if it is in the interest of criminal proceedings. More importantly, someone who has committed a crime is responsible for it in accordance with the prescribed procedure and is sanctioned; rather than, in principle, finding that the Old One has done something wrong, which may be corruption. Thus, nothing changes in this respect, but only very clearly, unequivocally and understandingly determines how these procedures should proceed. I hope I've answered some questions. I'll be absolutely happy to answer if there's any more. I want and expect, I believe that you believe that we have done our best in view of the experience, initiatives and proposals of all, including the KPK, to do something because it is possible at this point. We are convinced that what we are improving represents systemic opportunities for more successful work, faster work, more efficient work. But at the end of the day it all depends on individuals who get some tools in hand. If we know how to use it, if we work hard, if we work harder, we will be more or less effective; otherwise, we will not. And that's all this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u115	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired and I see that interest is after the debate, under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, I invite you to apply for the debate. The application shall be made. Mr. Breznik, please, you have the floor first.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u116	But now we're going to reality, Mr. Stare. You've been on KPK for four years, result zero. Nothing. The only result is that you threw away the government, that there was a political crisis, that there was another government that was incompatible, which again heavily indebted to Slovenia; and you did billions of damage. When did the KPK start? This was then a body, when it started talking through the towers, to alert wider experts to where the main hotspots of corruption were. Very simple, the main hotspots of corruption are public procurement. I don't think there's anything to doubt. We all agree here. The main hotspots of corruption for decades, I am talking about decades, the health system, the main hotspots of corruption are the larger municipalities, I am speaking to the larger municipalities, the main hotspots of corruption are state-owned enterprises, and the main focus of corruption is the policy of new faces that can come overnight with money stolen from public companies, into Parliament and then read, because you can see that they do not master matter at all, read and adopt corruption laws. What has happened in the last three years under the leadership of Mr. Stephenec? I didn't know Mr. Stefanec personally, and I didn't know him for the first time, and I saw Dr. Lamberger for the first time. The problem was that these two people were independent. Mr Štefanec is going to retirement, so he has a clear conscience before the world, his whole life had to be spent somehow, we can say, as an economic operator, as a lawyer on the market; it is likely, from another, entirely different political options than I am. Mr Lamberger, from what I've heard, is a great expert, an honest expert in crime, a doctor of economic science with many years of experience. It seems to me that he was such a good fit for this town, even though I was kind of rejecting it at the time. The first reflection of the Senate’s collapse was that the two were disobedient. Remember, the beginning of Mr Štefanec in this term was that he entered the fungal shoes. Part of Mr Klemenčič's team began to demolish the Senate, which was somehow not the only one who was not at the will of the people, the lobbyists in Slovenia and the parastats, who, of course, lived from all this corruption and lived for decades and even set up for decades, we can say, part of these transition leftist parties. You'll all feel that, dear fellows. Those who were paid with overpaid state poster projects; those who somehow also made part of their tycoons. In order not to find out, they also want control of the anti-corruption Commission. The law that's ahead of us is doing something else. He wants all those independent articles that we are yet, those independent MPs that you are here, honest people who have a clean conscience in front of you and their family, he wants you to step down as soon as someone swings his hand and says, "You have a mistake here." I don't know, Mr. Prikl, if you don't report any credit for 11,000 euros, even though you didn't steal anything in your life, they'll tell you right away – back off. Mr. Duck or I, whatever it is, for a little bit – back off. All colleagues, if you disobey, then Mr Stare or anyone else will come, maybe then he'll be back on KPK, and he'll say that. Where is this former KPK that threw away the government? One here is now a philosopher, all in red color, the other has even been involved in the greatest corruption and then has left as State Secretary, that is, Mr Klemenčič, when he rents that famous building. Then he made a catastrophic constitutional error, a major procedural error in the then prime minister — no consequences. And Mr Praprotnik, third-rate journalist, is today in the NLB, in the biggest corruption possible in the money launderer, the former Udbian company, as said by its founder Niko Kavčič, who today has a money launderer after a complete former Yugoslavia and also in the Federal Republic of Germany and all other matters. That's where the money comes in, and they're doing everything they can to keep it from being sold and everything. Today, at this moment, as the only body that has stood a little bit on the edge of this para-state, there are two people in the Senate, which I believe are Mr Lamberger and Mr Štefanec. Why do I believe them? I trust them because they're independent because they've got some prosperity and they're resisting it. What you brought here today is not worth a penny. I hope the elections are coming, and [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u117	Mr. Primoz Hainz, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State and the team, hello! I have to say that if we go to reality, as the speaker said, reality can be a little different if we look at it honestly. Our problem is basically what the Secretary of State said a little bit. We tolerate corruption, that's our problem, in practice we tolerate it. Of course, we condemn it on an individual level, but in a global, I must say, too little, we tolerate it. The password was valid for a long time, but I don't think it's still too much – he did. This is something that we kind of say – well, I won’t envy him, because he was smarter and therefore richer in the wrong way. I still think that this is our central problem or a little bit of an improvement if I can use that term, but it's going very slowly. That we have in some way two kinds of citizens, of course we all know that, even the Constitutional Court says that some are untouchable and others are touching. But well, that's already spreading the debate where it might not be necessary. As for the congregations, as mentioned by the predecessor, of course I do not agree. If you read the Court of Auditors reports, I don't see any difference between big and small congregations. In large congregations there are more money, there are more percentages; in small ones there are other numbers, but I do not see the great There are irregularities and there are also congregations that do what is right. [[…]] But the case seems to me like what we're after in health care. We are very much chasing the director of health homes, preferably also the professional director, but all the members of the colleges of these institutions, from the Ljubljana Clinic Centre, Maribor, health homes, know exactly the same. And who's preparing the materials? That the director is writing materials? No, the director signed, maybe even orders, but those who wrote knew the same thing, or gave professional grounds to irregularities if I could use that term. And here you can see our tolerance, things go by, or they go much slower than we want. Secondly, as regards the direct issue of the KPK, there is a question of so-called lobbying. And here I have to say what I told Mr. Stephenean, or told him. I have a problem with being negative all the time when I talk to people or with representatives of societies, interests and so on. This is essentially a Member's home assignment. I even say that we have too many meetings in this term and we are too many in the hall and too few among the people. That's for sure. For example, state councillors are defined in the Constitution — representatives of interests; they must report discussions with interested groups. There's something wrong here. But I think that the Member's position in this regard is even more responsible, given the relationship between the Council of State and the National Assembly. And that's ours, that's my central problem – it just keeps feeling like if you were talking to someone, it's something corrupt. And on this thesis, I must say, I don't agree. It's somehow made in these years, and so our secretaries keep writing some reports about something that's completely tiny and, in my opinion, totally irrelevant. Phones, computer connections and so on are the most normal, so we have them in some way; because we don't have them just to write KPK reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u119	This also concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. I hereby end the 23rd item of the agenda and the 38th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 3.45 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u120	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I continue with the adjourned meeting and apologize for the delay in meeting with representatives of the Conference of Local Authorities within the Council of Europe. Before proceeding to the voting procedure, I would like to inform you that the State Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: paragraphs 15, 2, 25, 23, 21, 22, 4 and 13 of the agenda. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act, within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 8. Dr Matthew Tashner Vatovec has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Levica Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u121	Thank you very much, President. Since this law provides that certain mandatory checks will be introduced in services that have gone through public contracts, of course only for a certain part, but not for all, but for good, this is another thing; and since this will actually start to determine whether there is a breach of labour law, social legislation, environmental standards and so on, the absolute impossibility of the deadline proposed by the Ministry in the law is seven months. Therefore, the amendment proposes that this deadline should be reduced to three months. We believe that this should be more than enough to prepare everything necessary, even if it is now or should already be provided with divorcing conditions in signed contracts, so when can such contracts be terminated? We propose a reduction from seven to three months so that this law, although not perfect, will apply as soon as possible. We'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u122	We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 39. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded by deciding on the amendment and second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 15 of the agenda. We continue with the interruption of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 2 of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on family policy 2018-2028 “All families are a friendly society”. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the motion for a resolution, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 8. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. This concludes the 25th item of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption is suitable for further consideration. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u123	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support the proposal for a new Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. Nor will we support it because the Government's Law Service has warned that the solution proposed by the Government cannot be in the novel, but a special law should be drawn up. Secondly, certain matters have also been very and important pointed out in the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, which say that the law also has financial implications, while the Ministry has not discussed these consequences or financial construction and does not speak in the bill. You don't know how much it's gonna take. We cannot support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party because this proposal does not save our country, but only deepens the country. In short, we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u124	We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 22. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Justice as a working body. I hereby conclude the 23rd item of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Urgent Recovery of the Effects of Excessive Environmental Loads in the Celje Valley Area. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The draft law on urgent recovery of the effects of excessive environmental burden in the Celje Valley area is suitable for further consideration. Mrs Janja Slug has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the modern centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u125	Thank you very much. In 1989 all analyses were known for the Celje Valley area, a state of soil for the whole region of the Celje Valley, which we know is worrying. In 2005, an analysis was carried out of the land of all kindergartens in the village congregation; 11 of the 13 kindergartens had contaminated land. For five years there are legal grounds for the adoption of the rehabilitation of the Celje Valley. Four years each day, day after day, children go to a kindergarten where they play on polluted soil, and for 40 years they go to work as educators and assistant educators who also play with children on this polluted earth. 20% more heart and blood vessels in the Celje Cathelin, 30% more people die from cancer, 50% more is respiratory disease, 50% more in the individual years of absence from work, 120 000 micrograms per litre of zinc were found in one of the groundwater samples. Let me say that the upper limit in the Netherlands is 800 micrograms for urgent action. At least two mandates would continue if we wanted to adopt all the legal bases for which the competent ministry so asserts that they should be accepted. Where, then, can the reasons not to support the immediate rehabilitation of the Celje Valley and all areas that deal with such numbers and where the life and health of adults and children are at risk every day? We will, of course, vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u126	Violeta Tomić has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. We will, of course, support this bill in Levika, because the right to life in a healthy environment has long been violated in the Celje Cauldron. And as Janja’s colleague listed, they are witnesses to many diseases and premature deaths. There is only one flaw in the law, namely, that the costs of environmental rehabilitation will be borne by the congregation and the state. Zinc Celje, the main cause of this pollution, is to pay only environmental damage in the area of Cinkarna Celje, but pollution does not end for the fence of this zinc factory and we do not blind ourselves to the fact that this has just occurred. Zinc Celje has made quite a lot of profits and has a lot of profits in recent times; and of course at the expense of the exploitation of the labour force and at the expense of the dirty industry. All this cadmium, lead, titanium, that's loaded on the floor of the celery, and not only in the soil, but also in the water and air, they came from here. Here is also the Ministry of Environment and Space, for so long you have been holding your eyes against so many warnings. The Environmental Protection Act makes it clear that the driver of the environmental burden is responsible for the prevention and recovery of environmental damage and that he himself bears the costs of all these measures. Only if his assets cannot cover these costs can the state add something. And that is why the Left will now support this law, but in further consideration we will definitely make an amendment, with which we will consistently transpose it into this law that we are considering today. We also count on the broad support of Members, because one cannot have all the profits and the other will pay for their queries. And this will also send a clear message not only to the Zinc, but also to all other contaminants, from incinerators to car paint shops, so that we cannot pay the citizens all the pollution they cause. And as I said before, in principle, we will support the law that we are considering today in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u128	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? Mr Franc Jurša has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u129	President, thank you for your word. It is only right that I repeat some of the things that I said at the meeting last week when we discussed this point. I don't think it's right, I don't think it's right for us to treat the Minister of Environment and Space in this way. I have stressed that Members and Members of the largest coalition party that has tabled this proposal in the National Assembly have a President of the Government, has a Minister of Finance; and if this were systematically regulated, they could also be resolved within these four years. I know it's hard, but now that you're judging the Ministry of the Environment and the space that didn't prepare something, it's disgusting. Any matter could be referred by the President of the Government to the competent ministry, which would be obliged to do so. I am for every rehabilitation, almost all things should be saved in Slovenia. But now we are solving one thing with a law that could be saved in accordance with the Law on the Protection of Nature; by decree. If we have these decrees for other environments, we could also consider them a target environment. There are only two congregations, just two congregations, Celje and a neighboring congregation. And it is not right to solve a complex problem in this way in the National Assembly. I will therefore vote against such a solution. I'm not against environmental rehabilitation. I'm against such a solution. The entire parliamentary group thinks so.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u130	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? I've got two. Is there any more in his own name? Mrs Jelka Godec has an explanation of her own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I said at the meeting I would vote on the quorum. In those days, I changed my mind because I was called from the Prosenisko Civil Initiative, which has been in operation since 2001, and have participated in all the analyses since 2001 along with civil initiatives from Celje, Alaska and so on. In this law and then in later analyses, they simply fell out of the matter. Madam, who has led the civil initiative since 2001 and officially since 2003, has all the documents obtained by the police, the Environment Inspectorate, the Institute of Health, Maribor, the European Union, the Ministry of Health, because I have here even a document, they even gave me pictures, this is at the border with the Municipality of Šentjur and Celje; and they say they are not interested in money. They are concerned with the life or health of these people. In this family, the most involved in the civil initiative, this lady died of cervical cancer, the gentleman has skin cancer, and the son – I will not explain that she would not get anyone – also has cancer. And I find it unacceptable that the matter here has also been silenced by a coalition that had to know about this civil initiative and did not involve the congregation of Šentjur or this work in this rehabilitation. And like my friend said, the whole boiler doesn't end up on the border with Cel. Sadra, who is behind Travnik, as they say, also influences the part of Šentjur, on Proseniško. And it is unacceptable, once again, to make a border between the congregation and say that the municipalities of Celje and Storé will receive this money if you want, will be rehabilitated by kindergartens, I agree; but the people in that part of Proseniskog, you can look at the pictures when it rained in 2008, 2010, the red rain fell. And the same segments or the same is contaminated as in the village. We can't close our eyes here, so I've changed my mind and I'm voting against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u132	The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u133	Thank you for your word, chairman. Man listens to all this together, and apparently I'm too stupid for this national convention. For almost 30 years now, we have known that there is this problem, that all the political groups that you have sat here have had a government, should have arranged it no later than 1994, 1995; you have not done so. I can agree with my colleague Jelko, but this is the responsibility of the department to say the scope and territory of this. This cannot be an excuse for non-voting or voting against, Members and Members, we also have some responsibility or responsibility at the starting point. If I refer to what the Head of the Desus Group has said, I personally think that we must urgently remedy political culture or make a great revolution here, as the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language defines a greater social change. The minister and her team were making excuses that this should be systematically regulated. We systematically have the Environmental Protection Act, which is an intervention law, which follows a regular procedure where further readings – of course if this is true and I believe that it is true – must include another area of the local community. It is our responsibility, however, that this will finally begin to recover, and I hope that this law will be adopted. But when it is accepted that this will not be the same as that law under the government of Alenka Bratušek on development aid to Maribor, when somehow the next government will forget about it. If anything, then people's lives are what no responsible policy should be made of. [[…]] I will therefore vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u134	Is there any other explanation? Mrs Anita Kolesh has an explanation of her own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u135	Let me say I'll support this marriage. I will support him for all the reasons we have heard today. Above all, the reason is most important that nothing has happened in all these decades in the field of soil rehabilitation of the Celje Valley. I find it funny to say that because a congregation is not included in this marriage, someone who lives in this congregation may object. I must say that all those who live in the congregation of Šentjur and are otherwise affected by soil pollution in the Celje Cauldron will benefit from the rehabilitation of this area; either as those who live in this border area, where the effects of pollution have actually been, either as those who come as day migrants to Celje or elsewhere in the Celje Cauldron, Store and so forth. For this reason, I think it is very appropriate to support the continuation of the consideration of this law and that we may find in further consideration some other solutions that we have heard at the hearing of the National Assembly. I reiterate my call on the Ministry of the Environment to consider this issue and to see if they can find their own and appropriate solutions by the time the law is back on sent-off benches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u136	Thank you very much. The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u137	I'm going to vote for this marriage myself in this reading. However, it is important to say clearly and loudly to Celjan that this is a major populist action and that, unfortunately, they will soon have nothing. If the government, if coalition parties were to take so seriously the rehabilitation that Celje and the surrounding area urgently needs, they would ask the Minister and their President of the Government to do so. We have the Law on the Triglav National Park, which requires that the municipalities belonging to the Triglav National Park be given money. The National Assembly unanimously agreed that this money must be provided in the 2018 budget and that nothing is guaranteed. And so much of this proposal of yours will, unfortunately, also have Celjan and Celjani. This is no way to play with human health.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u138	Matjaž Hanžek has an explanation for the vote in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Chairman. I support this idea that the Zinc Celje should also send a bill. I have one personal experience with the conduct of Cinkarna Celje and others in Celje; not from 30 years ago, as my colleague Trček says, but from 40 years ago. My real job was at the Institute of Sociology, where we worked out the spatial plan of the municipality of Celje. Local people who lived around the zinc factory came to our house, experts on how the zinc leaks at night at weekends of toxic gases, and not then — that's a long time ago — when they measured the air. And they're at night, and nobody wanted to see them. They did exactly what others do, poisoned the environment all the time, realizing that they were blowing up toxins. That is why I will support the law, and I hope that it will be extended to the fault of the one who has deliberately poisoned directly, and may even expand the environment from the Celje Valley, because, after all, the impact of poisons on the fence of a factory, such as the environmental permit for TES, where the impact of Block 6 is limited to the fence around Block 6 or the thermal power plant, is not stopped. And I'm sure it's not just a snitch and a few congregations here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u140	We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 42 votes in favour and 22 votes in favour. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a working body. I hereby conclude the 21st item of the agenda. We continue with the 22nd item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Exercise of Collective Cultural Rights of National Communities of Peoples of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the exercise of collective cultural rights of national communities of members of the peoples of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the Republic of Slovenia is suitable for further consideration. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. We will not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The law as such is totally unnecessary. This funding, which is supposed to be regulated by this law and all these activities, is the preservation of culture, nationality, their integration and cooperation with their home countries or their native peoples in the emerging countries, all of which are already taking place, without great difficulty. This is regulated at the national level by the relevant institution, and in particular for this special working body of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, this has been running well at municipal levels for many years, since the independence of the Republic of Slovenia without any problems. I am alone from the Municipality of Kranj, where there is a type of cultural society that cooperates well with other societies of its native nations in the area of the newly created countries. From this point of view, all of this is totally unnecessary, but it is also unfair and reliable, obviously, constitutionally controversial, because, on the one hand, the nationality of the former Yugoslavia is favoured. In these terms and definitions, the proposaler is also very inconsistent because, in some parts of his explanation, he mixes the indigenous national community that we have in Slovenia and which are a special constitutional category; of course, what applies to all other nationalities without exception; and this is essential. On the other hand, the question here is why is the goal of pumping one nation against another, or what is the goal here, if this is the case?Oh, my God! I said he's unfair, and he's obviously constitutionally controversial. What about those who are indigenous to the territory of Slovenia, such as the Kočevski Germans, the Old Austrians, and do not mention them in this law lived in this territory for 500 years. All of this should be considered and finally come to a very simple conclusion that it should be a uniform goal for all – and in the SDS this is certainly our goal – that it applies to all without exception, that no one is favored at the expense of another, that all the nationalities living here are equal so that no special advantages are given to anyone. However, what had to be done in return has already been regulated by specific laws that have granted these nationalities the privileges of certain solutions in recent years. There remains only a simple conclusion that they do not need a nationality, that even for them, to a large extent, this proposal is offensive, since it assumes that they will not notice that this is done during the pre-election period, obviously with one goal of saving employment for those who will not be elected in the new term. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to support this in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u142	Dr Dragan Matić has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the modern centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, President. We will support the bill and consider it suitable for further consideration. The bill means nothing more than the implementation of the commitments of the Declaration of the Republic of Slovenia on the situation of the national communities of members of the peoples of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, which was voted in the 2011 National Assembly by a constitutional majority of 63 votes, including those of the gentlemen who today oppose it, in particular my spokesman, Mr Grims. As early as 2011, the Declaration noted that members of these national communities, the communities of the former SFRJ, were placed in an objectively new and different nationalities-minority position at the time of the independence and constitution of Slovenia. It further concluded that, due to the absence of organised progress in establishing a strategy for regulating collective rights of national communities, which we do not consider to be indigenous and their rights are not specifically mentioned in the Constitution, they no longer enjoy comprehensive approval and understanding in professional research and international institutions. What was already guaranteed to these members of the national communities in the Republic of Slovenia's independent documents was not implemented until 2011, and this declaration was also adopted. And this declaration explicitly states that the State of Slovenia recognises the rights of these peoples to develop a culture, to cultivate their language and writing, to preserve their history, to strive for an organised presence in the public and so on. At the same time, I quote: "The Republic of Slovenia not only recognises this activity, but also encourages it, while at the same time seeking to implement legal frameworks to provide material and other forms of support for their functioning." And that is exactly what we are following, so we have drawn up this proposal for a law regulating these legal frameworks so that these national communities can exercise their collective cultural rights. The speaker spoke about how there was already a mark on the government, which meant an official link between these national communities and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. But he forgot to mention that his government, this is the government of Janez Janša, in 2012, one year after they confirmed that declaration, had abolished the same net worth. So at any time this light can be lifted after the current arrangement. And that is why, once again, a legal framework is needed to ensure the institutional permanent representation of these national communities, which will be able to communicate with the government and exercise their rights. However, the office provided for by the law will only carry out what is necessary at operational level for the members of these national communities to receive after 27 years what the State has promised them at the time of their independence. That is why we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u144	This part, however, was an explanation. However, a large part of your debate was unfortunately the debate. Please, any other explanations on behalf of the Group of Members; on their own behalf? Mr Primož Hainz has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must say that I understand the initiator's wish for a pre-election story and for more money for the cultural participation of the national communities of the former Yugoslavia. Of course, there is no doubt. And that's the only thing I understand. But I'm afraid it's against the Constitution to separate national communities from one another. And the fact that we have in the Slovenian nomadic Germans, the Old Austrians, Jews, also the vojvodno Hungary, which Dr. Göncz mentioned the last time, and anyone else, that is certainly unconstitutional. And that is the problem with this proposal. I must say this: Slovenian history certainly did not begin in 1990. Nor did it start in 1941 or 1918. We've had migrations before. And we owe it to them to be fewer, that's true, because one of them moved out, whatever it was, but one of them stayed here. And then, if we go into something like this, we should save as concrete as real law; in a constitutional way. That is why we do not have a document of any government service, since in the first version it was written everywhere that it was unconstitutional or unconstitutional, and then they pulled it out. I know the background. This is simply so, and I do not think it is right that we do not recognize that once we had Belgrade as the capital, but before we had Vienna as the capital. It's some kind of continuity, some of the initiators should almost know this genetics. I myself will vote against this law, as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u146	Is there any other explanation? Please sign up. The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u147	Your Honor, I will not support this law because of its obvious unconstitutionality, because it favors one nationality against another. What I believe should be the goal of everyone and everyone and every political party represented in Parliament is that before the law we are all the same and always the same. This is said to be in no way favouring one another; this law has exactly that background to create imbalances. But all that the law is supposed to regulate is already being done right under this government. That is why I do not understand the proposal of the largest government party, specifically Mr Matic. Is there now a particular mania in the largest government party that the ministers themselves or in this case, in particular, make the whole government untrustworthy by their own conduct?Oh, my God! As if this government does not regulate or regulate the area properly, it has regulated it for four years and there has been no problem. The same as all past governments since their independence. There have never been any major comments that anyone is hampered by maintaining his cultural identity, maintaining ties with his native people, in various forms of integration. This has been strengthened under any government, regardless of whether it was an institution or whether it was a direct ministry; but there has always been funding at the state and municipal level without any particular problems and activities have taken place and are also taking place under this government. That is why this law is totally unnecessary. Because of the circumstances presented by the representative of Desus and confirmed by myself, he is obviously also unconstitutional and illegal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u148	Violeta Tomić has an explanation in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u149	Thank you for your word. Me and the entire Group of Members of the Left will support this proposal of the law. It's a real step in the right direction, though first. Well, the first was a declaration seven years ago, but we wanted to propose an enrollment, a complement to the Constitution, which is the only just and definitive solution to this problem, but we would not get a two-thirds majority. All those who say they will not support just because the law is unfair to some, in Bosnia and Herzegovina they have 17 recognised ethnic minorities, in Croatia they have 21 minorities, and we have only two. Slovenians have everywhere more rights than we give to our fellow citizens. It certainly does not hold that everything is okay and that everything works together, because if everything worked, as some say, then we would not be warned by the international institutions and called upon to treat all minorities and national communities non-discriminatoryly. We are invited by the UN's Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, the Council of Europe, the Council of Human Rights of the Council of Europe, the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. If we do not fulfill our commitments, will we be punished again as if we were erased?Oh, my God! It is not a problem that Members and Members of the Group should finally take moral and material responsibility once and say, "We have been impatient, but we have enough money, because we can be financed from there and there, and we will be punished when European institutions punish us for our intolerance." All right, then. We'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u150	We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 23. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the National Assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Culture as a working body. I hereby conclude the 22nd item of the agenda. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Act, following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment tabled and the article tabled. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the SMC Group for a new Article 24a. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u151	Thank you for your word, chairman. If we have some medium-term memory, we remember that at the time the United Left was the initiator of the public debate held here in autumn 2014 on the Energy Concept of Slovenia. Then there was some promise from the department to get it 2015, now we are 2018, and I hope that this coalition – although I have the last days feeling that I am the only non-resistance, as you pingpongigate with each other – will not be so crazy as to push forward with the reckless energy concept that we will be smoking colt or coal until 2054. Now you're gonna tell me what this has to do with it. This mandate is lost, not by Levice's fault, a mandate in which we should answer the questions of the Energy Concept of Slovenia; to the question of what the energy lobby is very reluctant to hear, energy inefficiency; to the question of energy poverty; to the question of local energy self-sustainment. One of you just woke up a little before the election. When I was three and a half years old, on behalf of the Left, I was a mad Duck. And, of course, answer the question of what we will do with TES 6 to get as little headaches as possible and especially wallets. In this area, this coalition deserves an assessment of the flowers; dots, stampede, underlined. Here we have some amendment to the Energy Act, where you try to try the fraction of the change you wanted to re-analyze a year ago in TES 6, although so many electrical technicians have taught me that TES is not the most suitable for what you want us to pay now, but before that it is not, primary regulation. And with that, the SMC allows itself to literally pull the Podrava. I specifically asked at that session, Dani from SDS me kim, whether that means any changes to my place, if I put it that way; and it was said no. And that's what you did to your buddy Vanch. This is one, if you want, new policy, ethics, morality, project cooperation, systemic approach, in short, all the words Cerar has given me for 27 reincarnations. Now somehow you're trying to fix it with some half-breed. We will, of course, vote against it. What's behind this? Probably behind this is some sort of SMC-related recruitment group somewhere, but it has to be done, the media will already figure out who; and quietly it will be taken to local communities by about 10 million concessions. Why around? Because this is essentially changing according to the specific annual hydropotential of Drava Power Plants. This concession is a concession that the local community, according to the local congregation, needs for a whole range of matters, and they also need to regulate matters at our beautiful Drava watercourse. We have recently had problems with a certain prison, and if you happen to watch when the watershed comes down by about 7 meters, we have great problems with the delay, we have “good-neighbourly relations” with Austria, because they are pouring Drava away and the mud is thrown out of the remorner, they open the hatch, and in this regard Mr Židan was still a Member of Parliament, and these are all facts. This amendment and the law itself, which you are going somehow soliistically to the SMC, is actually something that should not be happening in politics. We will also vote against this amendment in its entirety. I hope that we are so smart that this law is not going forward today because it will be vetoed in the State Council; and just before the elections, when we count when you are received from local communities, it is likely that almost 46 votes will not be won. The older you remember the movie Window must fall at once. Today this marriage must fall. We will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u152	Mrs. Xenia Krenjak Kramar has the floor. About the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Let me remind you, dear fellow, the vote on the amendment on the committee was 11:0. At the time, no one was discussing it this way. But what I would like to say is what we wanted and what we want with this amendment. This is a response to the concerns that have arisen in the public and to which this amendment, which we are discussing today, responds. With it, we want to restore the development potential of the Drava River in Podravje and also provide the basis for new investments. We are talking about a law that will apply from the date ahead, i.e. to new projects; and also to provide a basis for a number of local projects. For many years we have only been talking about – Kozjak, Ostrica, new small hydro power plants. Yeah, we're just saying because there's no capital for them to invest in. With the proposal, we would like to increase the possibility of transition to a carbon-free society and also reduce the importance of electricity from the Šostanj Termoelectric power plant. We want to make capital possible so that we can implement energy policy measures. Above all, we see Drava Power Plants as an important economic society in the local environment and not just as a stumbling block to such and other political interests, for the acquisition of political points as well. It is an important economic society; it is an important society that contributes to the environment in one way or another. It is true, however, that this will continue to require a very important proactive role for the local community. There's no way out of this. And regardless of all the debate, we will still, as before, strive to bring HSE to Maribor as it has been. We will also work on this in the future and will continue to provide a stable investment environment and to provide capital for investment and for projects, for people. Yes, so, dear fellow, we strive. But the question is, how long were we alone in this effort? I will support the amendment, and at the same time, I will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u154	Since it's still an interest in the debate, please apply. As an individual, he could be a replica. Reploco's got dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u155	Thank you for your word. I have to take this. First, I made it very clear that I voted in favour because I was also among those fucked up, which I also said yesterday in Maribor, because they specifically lied to the Ministry. We don't know a lot of politics, and here it appears, Xenia, you don't exactly master this darkness, frankly. Otherwise, they told you what you need to read. If the modern center's party were that far away, it'd be 19. 2nd at 10 p.m., yesterday, in the Municipality of Nova Mesto, where we were from politicians colleague Prikl and I, Bojana was not invited, I must apologize, and the vast majority of mayors from Podravje. And those who were absent also apologized. We're probably so much in the information society, as you say, Industrial Revolution 4.0 that you're reading a little bit about what falls into the byte. Signature of all mayors of Podravja, Community of Slovenia, error was made on the lower Savi, do not extend it further. Sometimes the responsibility of politics is to make you stop thinking about what you're doing. However, somehow I am afraid or not afraid that luckily the SMC will no longer have the opportunity to do so, as mentioned earlier. It is also extremely irresponsible policy that under the Energy Act, municipalities have to work on local energy concepts, and we do not yet have a serious umbrella. And you've cooked this, and so are we, on a large scale, although let's say the SDS is really a million things we're very different about. But when we talk about this matter, Daniel Krivec and I literally rock the stereo, but you are so in love with yourself that you cannot tell. I hope that in the next reference no one will get 20 seats or more, first because the car will not get to drive more public passenger traffic; and second, that no one will get as far into the head as you do. Because we can't afford one lost term with Charz or Jarz or anyone else because we've been out of line for 15 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u156	I don't know exactly what the replica was, but anyway. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u157	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! We take the Energy Act very seriously in New Slovenia, so yesterday, when we received the amendment for the third reading of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we studied this amendment and today we also took into account the opinion or letter received by all Members – the letter of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia. We, as a party that respects and takes into account the opinion of the local communities which, unfortunately, have been machete-treated in this mandate, at least as far as finance is concerned, have read carefully, studied this letter as well. At first glance, if you read the explanation of the amendment's proposal, you say - that's fine. And when you get deeper and in the broader context of the Energy Law, you put this amendment into the structure of the law, you see it's not right. And this new amendment to Article 24a, which provides that the new third paragraph of Article 20 of the Law applies exclusively to new investments in hydroelectric power plants for which investors have not yet entered into a concession contract, does not solve anything. He's not saving anything. Inequitable and insidious reductions were made to local communities receiving concessions from hydropower plants in the lower Sava. Explanation of the need to “justly” to unify this rule for all, the funds for local communities are now being limited in advance. Since only a few articles in this Energy Act continue to provide that municipalities accept the Local Energy Concept as a programme for energy management in the local community following the prior consent of the Energy Minister and publish it on the websites. On the basis of the Local Energy Concept, spatial and economic development of local communities, the development of local energy economic services, the efficient use of energy and its saving, the use of renewable energy sources and the improvement of air quality in the local community are planned. And a few more comments or arguments to oppose this amendment. The New Slovenia delegation will vote against the amendment and also against the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u158	Anybody else want to discuss this? I only see one. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u159	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will support this amendment and the law. We must not forget that this law has already gone through a partial procedure once, but because of those concerns about the financing of TES 6 it did not go through the final adoption. We are now once again having some kind of collapse with regard to certain amendments and certain content, but let us not forget that the European Commission is threatening to punish us for not implementing certain provisions of a directive. I would like to point out that it is surprising that the mayors of the individual Podravina municipalities of the ears are cheering certain Members, then to some of the Community of the Slovene municipalities, signed by Secretary General Jasmina Vidmar, sends instructions on how to vote; this even refers to an unfair and insidious reduction of funds to local communities receiving concessions on the lower Sava. Let us not forget that at the bottom of the Sava there was a law and agreement between the mayors and Members of the same parties, there was no insidious reduction in concessions. A whole bunch of delusions. Then you refer to the letter from the Community Community Secretary-General and you apologize for putting the country at risk of being punished by the European Commission. The amendment that's been tabled solves the situation. I must say that this debate, which has developed in all this – who is more exhausting the Drava Power Plants; whether it is the municipalities, whether it is the HSE, or whether it is the country – is one legitimate and interesting debate. Apparently, pre-election time dictates that we remain in a situation as it has been so far. But the fact is that this amendment solves this matter, or this mystery, which is supposed to be complicated, as some mayors say, in the sense that nothing will change for them. The contents of the amendment shall apply to new power plants. If we want to build them, we will also need investors who will have to have a predictable environment, not a situation where they will have to give all their income in advance to the congregations. I'm afraid then these investors will be gone and there won't be any new hydro power plants.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u160	I saw two more people sign up, so I'm asking you to confirm that. We're in the middle of a debate. Then I understand your explanation later. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I have to react because it's a debate and thank God I have this opportunity. First about "some mayors". We have quite a few mayors in the Drava Valley. Members, mayors, councillors, presidents of local communities participate in and exchange views and warn us also when anything in the National Assembly accepts that there is no right for local self-government. I think that this is the only way we can function in a country and adopt some good laws that benefit people who live in some local government. We now have on the scale of the Energy Act and before us some lawsuit and the legitimate concern of the mayors that this law cuts down on them the concessions they use deliberately. Igor, you know very well how the mayors of the lower Sava use by law the funds they receive from the concession. And in this mandate, despite all these funds, we slowly cut the mayors' funds for their basic activities. Why is there this big story now? Because what Mrs Kramar said has been framed by this amendment; however, it is true that the applicants did not know exactly what they were signing. Normally, Drava Power Plants and HSE wanted to reduce concession fees in some way and to get less municipalities. Of course, we could go to a fund for what, but the congregations would be without money. Is that right? Here. The parishioners, the local government, and we in this national council are not to blame for the punishment if she comes. If we continue to speak, let us share a government, a parliament, and I do not know what, it is the government or the ministry that could give us the law at the right time and not have the fear that the European Commission will punish us. I'm going to reject this amendment, and I'm going to reject this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u162	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u163	Thank you for saying that again. We have been listening to this entire mandate very often, especially by the Modern Centre Party – Her, we have to do this, otherwise the European Union will punish us. Firstly, we are also this European Union; secondly, in the European Union, clocks are quite familiar, which are a few years ahead; and thirdly, some of us who have worked in the European Union or even been educated in Brussels, we also have someone among us, the European Union in principle is not in interest if you want Brussels to penalise some country; but that things change and improve. That's why your gossip "Brussels will punish us, Brussels will punish us" including you at the embodiment of political history. Even if Brussels punishes us or punishes us on our own, as colleague Han said, it may be helpful to consider another and a different political culture. Mr. Zorčič said – a colloquial with some kind of amendment. Yes, a coalition with some kind of amendment you tabled, and some kind of relationship with the mayors. Being mayor is the most difficult political function in Slovenia if you want to do it seriously and responsibly, as most mayors do. And that in the way you're doing it, Mr. Zorčič, you've sent somewhere, into three beautiful mayors along the Drava River, as if they were some sort of scabajzeri, as if the Community of Slovene Municipalities, which is most of the municipalities of Slovenia, what are again some slabajzers who have no idea, before the modern centre of the world. I ask you nicely, as you speak, after all, we are all citizens and citizens, but you seem to have forgotten this in your complacency. I can understand the interest of Drava power plants, and yesterday the director said, "If I were in another role, I would have spoken differently. Yesterday there was a debate – high policy, such a policy; I said what I could say, I could also confirm that all of us sitting there in Maribor are politicians and we have to be responsible and agree, this is about bound vessels. Where do these pennies come from? These pennies come from all of us who pay for electricity. The former Member of Parliament in seat 90 likes to say that we pay taxes to people, the same is true of these bills. In one party of the constitutional lawyer, so put an amendment where you fuck yours, where you fuck the whole National Assembly, where you fuck the local community, and then have a few more rooster visas for all of us; go under a cold shower, really. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u164	Mr. Igor Zorčič has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u165	Buddy Duck, you like to talk, and sometimes I like to listen, but I don't let you put something in my mouth that I didn't say. I don't underestimate the basement mayors and put them in some sort of basket; someone who shouldn't have to be taken into consideration. This amendment, which is proposed, takes into account what they have pointed out. I just wanted to point out that there was a debate about where the Drava power plants were going. The adoption of the amendment will satisfy their concerns when they say they will be deprived of certain concessionary resources and compensation for the use of building plots. That is why this amendment, of course, will also be supported by the law, so that we do not receive that penalty.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u166	Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SMC Group's new Article 24a. The explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u167	Thank you for your word. There was a debate earlier, we have so many rules of procedure, and now there is an explanation. As I said before, we will vote against the amendment and against the law in its entirety. I hope I don't need to hear from you about this point anymore. But I had to pick up where the problem was. There are very few matters where the legislative body — the National Assembly — has to rush. These are some extraordinary, urgent situations, and in most other cases some serious parliament takes time. And what's the problem here? There is also a problem if there were no coalition MPs yesterday, I and all the mayors of this amendment would not even see it at that debate. This is clearly an understanding of politics in the way of the Modern Centre Party. I have said many times that I, as a citizen of Slovenia and as a citizen of Slovenia, am the majority, as we say in Maribor, of the lunatics now, who is on the government, who is here, who is in the congregation; we want to have a respectable country in which there is no stealing, dot. And for some normal discussion, you need time. That you have now confused some amendment, which not even the majority in the National Assembly have seen, nor have citizens and municipal councilors seen, such a way of working, such understanding of parliamentary procedures should be sent to the history dump. You, the Essemites, have exceeded in good three years after vehementity everything we had in this society and country more than 20 years ago. And that's why I'm not very fond of the new surprise bags, the customers who would, according to the locals, like the uncles in the background like to work. We must also be aware of this in this society and in the country. Is politics something that we will always fall out like rabbits; is it some responsible profession on this delegation's side? Then we have a direct and participatory democracy, a model where you haven't turned out to be very crazy again in the SMC, even though you've been inspired at the beginning of how you're going to be. We're going to vote against it in Levica. Energy is a major area, because we all need energy to literally end this mandate, which has already been kleptopathic enough, corrupt enough, and I will say domestically, fucked up over the past 25 years, you have added that the next government will have to deal with this alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u168	I have to admit, you really do master the rules of procedure, as well as abuse. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 33. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendment. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Mr Uroš Prikl has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u169	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Of course, I have to say in the introduction that I am a long way from being an energy expert. For this very reason, before the debate and the vote, I have been given the opportunity to learn from the profession by deciding on this law. I think I've been a good student these few days. But you don't have to be a particularly great expert to figure out that the field of hydroenergy is an unregulated area with us and that different areas are being solved differently. And this law doesn't make it right. Moreover, the law that we have before us is harmful to the Drava power plants Maribor and also to the local community in the very broad sense of the word, i.e. the whole Podravje. Of course, I am in favour of polycentric development and it is right that Slovenia develops polycentricly, but not the development of one geographical area in a ditch, at the price of another.; in this particular case Maribor or the wider area. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The law, which is not good, is even more; the law, which is harmful to a particular area which is harmful to Maribor, which is harmful to the whole Podravje, cannot be good for the whole of Slovenia. And a bad marriage, my conscience dictates that, but I can't support it, and I won't support it. What's more, I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-20-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u170	We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 35. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 35.]] I understand that the law is not passed. This concludes item 4 of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on additional measures to remedy the effects of damage caused by the overcrowding of the population of subscribers, within the framework of the regular procedure. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, as the proposer of the draft law, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment tabled that you have received and published on the e-club. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Because nobody wants to discuss, I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 1. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body or of the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, and they all voted unanimously in favour. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude the 13th item of the agenda. I conclude the 38th meeting of the National Assembly.
