ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly, convened on the basis of Article 57(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Dr. Darij Krajčič, Ferenc Horváth, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti, Luka Mesec until 3 p.m., Dr. Franc Trček, Željko Cigler, Monika Gregorčič, Miha Kordiš, Eva Irgl, Dr. Ange Logar, Jelka Godec and Marijan Pojbič. I have invited the President of the Government, whom I warmly welcome, ministers and ministers, and the Secretary-General of the Government to the first item of the agenda, the representative of the Council of State, 7th, 8, 9, 10th, 18th and 19th items of the agenda, mag. Duško Year, Director of the Agency for Energy at agenda 21, Borut Smrdel, President of the State Audit Commission for the revision of the procedures for the award of public contracts to agenda 22, Vlado Nussdorfer, Ombudsman at agenda 23 and 24, representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and candidate for constitutional judge Dr. Katjo Sugman Stubbs at agenda 26 and representatives of the Government at all agenda items. I welcome all those present politely. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to the agenda of the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Friday, 9 November 2018, with the reference to this meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to withdraw the item from the agenda of the meeting. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda of the meeting, firstly to the National Assembly, I propose that the agenda of the 2nd session be extended by 1st item, which is by informing the President of the Government of the resignation of Mr Mark Bandell from the position of Minister without a head of staff responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. You received an extension proposal on Thursday 15 November 2018. Would you like a word from the representative and representatives of the Group? No, no, no. Do you want the word Members?, No. This concludes my presentation of the views on the proposal for enlargement and brings us to a decision. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We are now deciding on a proposal to extend the agenda. We're starting the vote. We're adjourning the vote. Some voting devices, including me, do not work. Please remove the cards to Members and Members who are not present in the Chamber. The Secretary-General of the National Assembly has also successfully resolved this problem. This brings us to the vote. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 72 votes in favour. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, the meeting will be held today, following the establishment of the agenda for the meeting. With this, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to setting a agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received with reference, as well as with the addition that we have just adopted. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 73 votes in favour. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly is set. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the 1st A-point of the agenda – a notice by the Prime Minister of the Government on the withdrawal of Mark Bandelli from the function of the Ministry without resources, appropriate for development, strategic projects and cohesion. By letter of 14 November 2018, Prime Minister Marjan Sarec informed me that Mr Marko Bandelli had resigned from his post as Minister without a resource responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. In this regard, the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that Mr Mark Bandelli has ceased to serve as the Minister without the resources responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. On the basis of Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Marko Bandelli shall carry out ongoing operations until the appointment of a new Minister or until the notification of the President of the Government in accordance with Article 234(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I have received 44 written applications for questions sent to me within the deadline of business. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244 and Article 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly and the arrangements of the leaders of the groups of Members at the meeting of 13 November 2018 and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition, Members of the Left Group and Members of the ruling coalition will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question, the President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the questions within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the additional reply may take up to three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and without explanation of vote. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, ministers and ministers must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point they apologized for today: Dr Miro Cerar, Minister for Foreign Affairs; Dr Aleksandra Pivec, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food; Mr Karel Erjavec, Minister for Defence; Dr Andrej Bertoncelj, Minister for Finance; Mr Zdravko Počvalšek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology; and Mr Jure Leben, Minister for Environment and Space. With this, we are moving, with respect and respect, on to the question of the Members of Parliament. Mr Marjan Sarec will answer the first five questions. They will ask him questions as the first Mr Daniel Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I will ask the President of the Government, Mr Marjan Šarc, a question concerning a global agreement on migration. The Migration Pact equates illegal migration with legal migration and does not mention and improve the status of refugees. Illegal migration will be eliminated by becoming legal, and countries will have to make such migratory routes possible. Illegal migrants will have exactly the same rights as refugees or citizens. Notwithstanding the fact that the agreement emphasises that it is a non-binding act, it contains 23 objectives and a large number of commitments. The agreement explicitly sets out what countries are committed to. It is very important, despite the fact that this is a non-binding act, the question why Slovenia would support something that it disagrees with or disagrees with the majority of the public accompanying this process. If Slovenia supports and agrees to such an act, it will needlessly be subject to international political pressure to achieve the objectives set out in the Pact. The pact was adopted far from the public eye, the Slovenian translation does not exist or is not accessible to the public. Thus, the Slovenian public does not even know what the whole content of the pact is. However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports a document which is not translated into Slovenian. It is also not known to the public through a hearing at the competent working body of the National Assembly, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which should be based on Article 3a of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 3 of the Law on Foreign Affairs. That's why I'm asking you: First time. Why is the translation of the Migration Pact to be adopted in December 2018 in Marrakesh not available to the Slovenian public and to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with Article 11 of the Constitution? Another time. Why was the final text not brought to the attention of the National Assembly in order to give its opinion? Third time. Why does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia object to all international commitments by Slovenia being dealt with at the competent working body in the National Assembly and translated into Slovenian as required in our Constitution?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Prime Minister, you have five minutes to respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u4	Thank you very much for yours, I must say, the expected question, given everything that's going on in public right now. True, it has not been translated because neither is the ratification envisaged in the National Assembly, but I have ordered a translation and the translation will be available. What is happening in public is, of course, one major politicisation of this agreement. Even those countries that have now said that they will not be with us, like Estonia, but I know firsthand why it is because I sat with the Prime Minister. There are three partners in the Estonian government, one party is quite right-handed and has an agreement that all conclusions will be taken by consensus. And because that was not the case, Estonia retreats. I also claim responsible, as I stand here, that all countries that deviate from this agreement, which, by the way, is mixed with another agreement adopted by the European Union, are, by chance, both in Marrakesh, responsible for all these countries' internal political movements. Since it was first said that Croatia would not support it, the President of the Republic said so, and now we see Croatia supporting it as well. Even countries with migration problems, even bigger than us, say Spain, do not think about not being included in this declaration. But there is also a huge mix of fog, because there will be no vote in Marrakesh, but the very presence there is enough, and this is some acclamation, and this will be accepted at the General Assembly of the United Nations. As I said, all these countries that are emerging are emerging from internal political tendencies. However, some members of the European Union are also very dissatisfied with Austrian behaviour, for example, because Austria will host the Europe-Africa Summit, where the aim is to connect with African countries and help them in their efforts to regulate the situation there and that migration would not be necessary at all. Because the issue of migration needs to be addressed at its source, and by no means by politicising the large and distorting facts here today. It must be said, as I have said several times, that this agreement is by no means binding, as you claim or claim. Then you also claimed that by signing this agreement we would be overrun by migrants, which is not true. Because of this signature there will be no less than one migrant in Slovenia, certainly not. This declaration, however, is the beginning of a joint resolution. As do climate change and other matters. If each country solves this in its own way and closes itself within its borders and says it's none of our business, then we won't get far. This is also a problem for the European Union today, because things are being tackled unevenly. You say there will be international pressure. If I am not mistaken, it is Mr Orban who said that our different attitude towards the rescue of migration would not spoil any of our relations. So I must say that if Slovenia wants to be in a group of countries that are responsible for the resolution of migration, which are responsible for working towards a common solution to the problems, then we must be among them. It is true, however, that this agreement does not equalise illegal migration and legal migration. It's a delusion. Illegal migration is a problem, for sure, and neither does Slovenia. We've got a lot of illegal border crossings, but the police are in control of the situation, and the police keep us informed of their behavior every day. And this situation is under control right now. Because of this so-called Marrakesh Declaration, as I said, there will be no one less than or more migrants, but it is a gesture by Slovenia that we are prepared to be responsible as a certain community to solve these problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u5	Mr. Members, do you have a request to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u6	Of course, there was no exact answer to those three questions. The fact is that Article 11 of the Constitution states: "The official language in Slovenia is Slovenian." You've talked about everything else that other countries do, not my question why there's no translation. You have said that this is not a document that should be accepted in the National Assembly, but on the other hand you admit that in this document, at least as things will take place in Marrakesh with the aclamation, in the United Nations with some signature, there will also be obligations for this country, for this national legislature. In this case, it would make sense, right, not to say anything else, that we have an official translation that all people can see. Otherwise, there is no logic, for why would we support this with an excuse that we have now heard is a non-binding document. If everything in this document were as you say, it would probably be available to the public already, because it was signed in the spring of May. In fact, I don't understand this government's tactics, which, in a way, by deceiving or not putting the document in the public domain, in fact also create additional controversy and problems. If I understand correctly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia agrees with all the requirements of this document. I'd like to hear the answer: What the Government will do next when these commitments are adopted in December in the United Nations and will become valid and binding for our country. How will the government proceed in this case? Obviously, the government is committed to the fact that the status of illegal migrants is in some way equivalent to refugees or that this border is deleted, obviously accepted, and we do not think that it is good. However, the question raised at the outset remains: Why isn't there an official translation?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. President of the Government, you have the floor to supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Like I said, I ordered a translation. Why the previous government didn't translate it, I don't know. I have it here and this translation will also be available to the public, but it doesn't change anything. This does not change the fact that this declaration is not legally binding, it is not binding. I'd like to list some other facts. Let's also say he's always manipulating himself. This is what you say one migrant costs a thousand EUR 963. That's what you're saying, too, so to your claims, yes, but that's not right! [[…]] Since the budget of the National Assembly is about 25 million euros and if we divide it by 90, we get a Member to get every more than 23,000 euros a month. That's not true, is it? Probably not, perhaps the functioning of the National Assembly needs some means. It's just one such statement. Moreover, you did not listen to me well when I said that we do not support illegal migration, as the country does not support it and we cannot. Illegal migration is illegal and is also the result of smuggling. And that's what we're witnessing today. Today we are not witnessing a migratory wave that is transiting across Slovenia, but we are witnessing to the smuggling associations and we are fighting it every day and the Slovenian police are working with it in a responsible manner. So don't fool yourself that now that this is adopted in the United Nations, there will be commitments from this. This agreement recognises sovereignty for each country. And that's right. Each country will always pursue its policy in a sovereign manner. And, I repeat, those countries that are against it are against it because of internal political movements. Because it's good for political points, for scaring people and so on. I don't think that's appropriate. Your pre-election posters that used to scare you, too, have told you their own story. Finally, part of the brexit is to blame because those who have triggered brexit in the United Kingdom have been intimidated by migration, and today we see that brexit is one big mistake and we have problems like Europe as a whole. So the translation will be available, but even if it will be translated, it will not change anything, because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for saying that it does not approach anything that would take away our statehood. And that's what we'll always stand for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u9	Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the response of the President of the Government be voted on at the next meeting or in the context of this meeting, because in some way I am not satisfied with the answer or have not been answered with a few questions. The concealment of this non-binding document at this time may, however, be justified, but the President of the Government himself has indicated which documents are still being adopted on the basis of this first document. You yourself have acknowledged that the following documents will not only be politically binding but will also require the fulfilment of certain signed obligations in terms of or amendments to legislation or implementation within a country. We are not against migration, but this document in some way equates both illegal and those real migrations, but above all it is a promotion of migration rather than a rescue of origin. And that's not what this document solves. However, as regards your statement that we are deceiving the price we are paying for one migrant, I would ask you to look at the Court of Auditors' report, which stated this amount, and we are using it in accordance with all the rules and documents that the Court of Auditors signs and brings to the National Assembly. So we will also be happy to read the translation of this official agreement, but this — as you yourself said — does not resolve that the Government has decided to sign a document that will further contribute to the country’s commitment to some measures that may ultimately mean a significant reduction in sovereignty in our area. I must make it clear that we will not assist us in this matter further, and we will also oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will decide on your procedural proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. This brings us to the 2nd question for Mr President, which Mr Jožef Horvat has. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues! In the coalition agreement on government cooperation, you have also written down a significant challenge entitled Ensuring a stable, predictable and internationally comparable tax environment. The title of the challenge must be a lot of promise. What about the measures? You're predicting a property tax that will tax the owners more and more properties. Mr President of the Government, can we understand that the first or only real estate, such as a family home, will not be taxed? You are also predicting the inclusion of personal income, it would be right to “personal income” because we do not have a law on the future, we have a law on income. Therefore, the inclusion of personal income from capital and rent in the base for the income assessment. The calculation shows, Mr President, that after this measure, for example, Mr Akrapovic, if he decides to pay 32 million dividends, would pay more income than everyone in the country that has paid dividends in the last two years, 2016 and 2017. Dear Prime Minister, I'm interested in: Will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, when preparing legislative proposals in the field of the tax system, take into account those measures under the coalition agreement? On the basis of this agreement, this government has been constituted and has been appointed. Subsequently, you, Mr President, have announced a comprehensive tax restructuring. Will the government even propose tax reform and what measures are you planning in this area? With this question, Mr President, I am actually giving you the opportunity to present the concept of comprehensive tax restructuring to the domestic and international public, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. President, this is your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u14	Thank you very much. I'm glad you're so worried. Last but not least, you had the opportunity to participate in tax legislation as part of the government, and you have made a different decision. Today you claim it was a good decision. Maybe time will tell. As far as taxes are concerned, we have already faced this issue before the government was even formed. This government hasn't had 100 days of peace. This government had minus 14 days of peace — at least more. So in these two months, what the government is made up of, what works, a comprehensive tax reform has not been able to prepare. This is because the word reform already says that it is a demanding process and must be prepared in cooperation with all the social partners and cannot be done overnight. What you mentioned earlier about real estate law is once again a working version that has come to the public, and then it is appropriate for the collection of political points. You know, even if in the past, since this country exists, we've only talked on drafts, based on drafts, then I don't know what that would be like. When you say that Mr Akrapović would raise 32 million of the income I have read, he doesn't even have them to do it. These statements also caused the entrepreneurs at that time a storm in a glass of water, and this was very appropriate at the time for spreading such and different fears. The fact is that the real estate tax is not a new matter; many governments have already tried to introduce it. Today I do not want or can not talk about all the tax rates of this tax, who will be more taxed, who will be less, because this tax is still in preparation and must also be dealt with in the cooperation of all stakeholders involved in this. So don't worry about taking any action overnight. But that some of them, as we've heard again, will be at the house, and I don't know what we've heard, and this is again some kind of scare we're witnessing to him. Yeah, not on your side, but it was public. Once we've prepared things so far, we'll be able to resolve this in cooperation with everyone. However, the OECD study also said that Slovenia deviates from the European Union average as regards over-the-average workload. There is certainly room for improvement in this part, and we will also make every effort to ensure that the tax burden is distributed as fairly as possible. Once we have a proposal prepared so far, we will go public with it. Not like what happened now that there's a work version in the public that doesn't indicate what we're trying to do. And then there could be storms in a glass of water again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, I admit I expected more. I asked you – and it would be good for this country and the international community, for investors – to explain the concept of comprehensive tax restructuring. Look, this is where you're telling us about the negative time. I'm a physicist, you know, time is a physical amount, it's a scalar and it doesn't have a negative value. But it's just going on. I'm not talking about the real estate tax law, listen to me a little bit, I'm talking about your coalition agreement, page 13, and this challenge, which I've named before, is the second line. That's where you wrote what I was quoting. I'm not making anything up, I'm just quoting and I'm asking for an explanation. I'm a member of the people, and I have to explain things to people. However, it is logical, Mr President, that what you have written down in this tax measure is taxation that the Slovenian economy has risen to its feet. Then the rhetoric of your political partner Left, where, for example, we listened, “entrepreneurs, tax collectors, the call for nationalisation, the small economy is a shoplifting economy” before, “the apprentices, the fah idiots” and so on. [[…]] Mr Prime Minister, we both know that if you are going to get lazy now, which is probably not going to be difficult, in the investor, either domestic or foreign, we both find very quickly that tax unpredictability is crucial to the investor. Tax unpredictability is crucial to the investor. Now you have the opportunity to dismiss this tax unpredictableness in your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u18	Well, I think I've been very understanding about tax unpredictability, too, that we won't take any measures overnight. It's already one step towards tax predictability, no overnight thing. What you said was that all entrepreneurs would flee abroad, and I don't know what, including Mr Boscarol, was said at the time. If you remember me back, I will remember you too – it was said that Mr Boscarol has now fled to Italy, because everything will fail here, but he had plans to move his production work to Italy in 2011 before. However, I have said how we intend to restructure overall tax even in the sense that things are balanced, it is said that we are less burdensome work and slightly more burdensome capital burdens. We'll go for it. However, I repeat that there will be no more misunderstandings, we will not do anything overnight, as well as entrepreneurs or social partners, employers, etc. They will be invited to discuss, because reform takes time, reforms are not done overnight and ad hoc. There's no fear here. I'm glad you're so worried. But if you were a little more concerned, maybe you'd be sitting in the government and you'd be able to decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President has the floor to propose a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Mr President, I know you're an artist of the Slovenian word, but you've talked a lot about things I haven't asked you about. I didn't ask you about Boscarol what we're talking about now. Please get used to the question of the Members, indeed, for the first time today you are answering, I am granting you leave of absence to answer in an exact manner, Mr Prime Minister. I am asking you specifically about the concept, not time dynamics, of the concept of tax restructuring. And thank you for your answer, you said that the work was too taxed, so I can interpret this to change the Income Act, support the New Slovenia Act, and there will be a reduction in contributions. However, I take advantage of the opportunity afforded me by the Rules of Procedure to propose, on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the National Assembly at its next meeting hold a debate on the Prime Minister's response to my question. If anything, ladies and gentlemen, this content is precisely what it is, then the restructuring of the tax burdens is extremely important. Who's to decide? Who? Or the National Assembly or someone else? Do we still have parliamentary democracy? I'm sure we have it. So here we must have some general debate on this. On this basis, experts sitting in the government and outside the government will then prepare, I hope, some optimal solutions. I'm not pushing for any dynamics that need to be done overnight. I agree, Mr. Prime Minister. No overnight solutions are good. But let us start today so that we can actually come up with good solutions once in due time. And I look forward to this debate that awaits us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We'll decide on your motion tomorrow. With this, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the third oral question for the Prime Minister of the Government, to be raised by Mr Dusan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u22	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government and Ministers! I talked to students in Ljubljana a few days ago. You can imagine how surprised I was when they didn't know where Krško was and that we have a nuclear power plant in Slovenia. In view of the problems I will talk about, I fear that many people in Ljubljana do not know or do not want to know. I wonder if anything unpleasant should have happened to change that. Dear President! However, you are probably aware that at the time of your birth, the Republic of Slovenia and Croatia built the first nuclear power plant to solve the problems of the energy crisis. It was already promised that low- and medium-radioactive waste would be taken care of within five years of operation. Such were the promises of the Christian congregation when it gave its consent to the power plant for permanent operation. That's when you, your esteemed president, went to the first grade of elementary school. The promise of a solution was stacked and the wastes continued to accumulate in the power plant, which in the meantime began to expand the temporary landfill and to squeeze the waste and thus reduce the volume. Dear President! In the meantime, you finished your studies at the gaming academy and started performing after Slovenia. Among other things, you have imitated Mr Drnovska, Ropa, Mr Janša and some of the ministers who are still leading and leading our country. They started looking more seriously for a dump site after 2000. Following long and hot discussions on where the landfill should be, 2009 arrived. I, too, was among the municipal councillors in Krske, who gave our consent at the late evening meeting at the time, but the only possible location of the landfill – Vrbina pri Krškem. In the meantime, Mr President, you left the stage and stepped on the political stage. You've been mayor of Kamnik twice, and you're almost there to become president of the country, and now you're in front of us as Prime Minister. I'm asking you: Isn't 40 years long enough to solve this problem, Mr. President? On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, and in particular on behalf of the inhabitants of Posavje, I ask: Are you and your government aware of this problem? Will you finally save him and when will he not be like those two students in Ljubljana? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Dear Member, I am pleased to have a biographer in the National Assembly who has faithfully followed my life course. Of course, I am aware of the seriousness of this issue and I do not think there is any need to resolve this issue. What's more, he'll have to be rescued quickly. An investment programme for this landfill was developed in 2013. In 2014, the Agency acquired the power of the Republic of Slovenia to purchase the land. In 2017, an amendment to the investment programme was made in coordination with the founder. However, services for the construction of infrastructure facilities have been concluded in 2018. The other activities related to this project are as follows: the project documentation for the construction permit for the landfill of low- and medium-radioactive waste will be completed in 2019; the reference documentation and the draft safety report are drawn up in accordance with the law governing nuclear safety; the report on environmental impacts is produced; and the Agency has completed the application for environmental agreement on 7 November 2018, so this month. Once the environmental impact assessment and environmental consensus have been concluded, a building permit will be obtained for the construction of this landfill. In parallel, activities are being carried out to certify the concrete container for packaging waste. The resolution has been adopted if an agreement is reached with the Republic of Croatia, it will follow this procedure. However, according to both construction scenarios, it is foreseen for the period 2017-2019, which is already happening, as I said, experimental operation is foreseen between 2020 and 2021 and regular operation is expected to begin in 2022. That's the kind of information I have. As you mentioned in the introduction, if the students do not know where Krsko is and what the nuclear power plant is, then maybe they didn't listen enough at school or anything like that. But the fact is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will make an effort and I will personally commit myself to building this landfill and that this problem will be resolved. You correctly note, honourable Member, that 40 years is a long time, and I also thank you for being there when you approved this landfill, because I know that there was a lot of tension in the public at the time, because no one wants nuclear waste. Everyone loves clean energy, and then waste is a problem, so we'll make every effort to make sure that what they told me at the Ministry comes true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u26	Thank you, Madam President. I hope your promises come true. However, since we believe in the Slovenian National Party that the problem with nuclear waste is also part of the problem of the icy mountain with Croatia, I would like to take advantage of the time available to further explain that this is being discussed in the National Assembly. In the report on nuclear safety, which we discussed on 16 October on the Infrastructure Committee, we can read that the employment of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant has already reached 95% and that the space will be only until 2021. On the board, Dr Stritar, Director of Management, made it clear and clear that we have money, location and knowledge and that he also does not understand why the landfill still does not exist. So the problem is in an unscrupulous country and an irresponsible policy that rules that country. Under the Interstate Agreement, both owners of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant are expected to take care of their own half of the waste by 2023. In Slovenia, at least we have chosen a location and construction is nearing its beginning. But Croats have practically nothing yet. Let me remind you that in 2015, Slovenia offered Croatia an opportunity for its share of waste by a landfill in Vrbina. It was only after two years that a strong response came from Zagreb that this was not acceptable to them. More. As soon as the NEK agreed to continue operation, there were a number of publications in Croatia stating that they had to take care of their part of the waste until 2043. Imagine an absurd but very real situation that we will take Slovenian waste to the landfill and the Croatian half will still stay at the power plant. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that Croatians have their own computer in this case and will cheat us [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. President, would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u28	Given that you have not asked me a question, I would simply say that I find it difficult to judge how Croatia acted in the past, how it will behave in the future. Even when you're talking about state incompetence, it's hard for me to answer you here after two months in this place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u29	Thank you. I therefore note that we can move on to the next question for the President of the Government, this is the question of Dr Mate T. Vatovac. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u30	Thank you, President. Dear Prime Minister! As you all know, minimum wage is one of the fundamental issues we deal with. And this fundamental question is also a principle, it is a worthy payment for the work done. But the situation that is currently ruling in our country is quite the other way around. We know what are the conditions under which people who receive minimum wages survive or try to survive. Survival with such benefits is very difficult. There are serious anomalies like class J, and also those above class J that are essentially below minimum wage. All of this causes some serious social distress in people who are employed and produce some new phenomenon called poor employees. As a solution to this situation, we have proposed in Levica a new law on minimum wage with three clear solutions. One raise to €700 net by 2020, the elimination of all allowances from the minimum wage and the introduction by 2021 of a so-called formula that would allow all beneficiaries of the minimum wage to be at least 20% above the minimum cost of living. This proposed solution was supported by 52 Members with their signatures in this Parliament. What is more important is that this solution was supported by all union centres and about 30 humanitarian and charitable organizations, including the Red Cross, Karitas, the Union of Youth Friends of Slovenia, the Botrostvo project, the Slovenian Philanthropy project and so on. My question, which is a two-part question, is very simple: As Prime Minister, do you personally support this solution? And if so, I ask you: Are you just going to do everything possible in the role of Prime Minister of the Government so that this amendment of the law will come into force with 1. 1. 2019, as envisaged in the bill itself?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u32	Thank you so much for asking. I believe that there is no citizen in the Republic of Slovenia who would not agree that the minimum wage is too low, especially in light of the fact that support for the socially disadvantaged has already been raised in the previous term. This means that support for the socially disadvantaged has dramatically increased to the amount of the minimum wage. Given that this support now remains at the same level in the new mandate or after the new year, it is almost necessary to ensure this difference between those on the minimum wage and those receiving the support. We all agree that the minimum wage is too low and that together we must make every effort to raise the minimum wage. You have said, honourable Member, that it is supported by all trade unions, that it is also supported by humanitarian organisations, but would appeal at this point that the minimum wage is raised or that social dialogue is urgently conducted in the preparation of the law, so is a dialogue with a group of employers in the Economic and Social Council. I regret that employers in the Economic and Social Council have not joined the dialogue. I think they will have to, because dialogue is at the heart of everything, rejecting dialogue at the first ball is never good. If this happens, if employers take an active approach to cooperation, I believe that we will also be able to find a solution. It is, however, up to the Members and Members of the National Assembly to come together and implement or adopt a law that will enable implementation by 1. 1. 2019, just like we committed ourselves. In short, we personally support this very much. Surely, as I said, there is no man who would not support it. However, I would like this to be achieved through dialogue in the Economic and Social Council as well. When I was at the 1st meeting of the Economic and Social Council, I made it clear that there must be dialogue, and that is why all members of the Economic and Social Council, in this case employers, must approach dialogue and also understand the other side that we must make a decent life possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u34	Yeah, maybe just one detail at a time. Of course, there is no provision for social dialogue for the law of the Member States. The government put this on the ESS itself, and I think it's also okay that this conversation has started. However, it is a fact that there has never been a significant increase in the minimum wage on the Economic and Social Council. What is essential is that, despite all that this is Parliament's task, it is said by the National Assembly to confirm this law to be passed in these benches, of course it is also crucial that you give this personal support as Prime Minister of the Government. But I don't think it's all about Members now, but it's not about the coalition as such. As Prime Minister of the Government, you are also the president of the coalition party, and here we also expect a coalition or, above all, a leading coalition party to make every effort to achieve this. And, of course, all the other coalition parties that have contributed their signatures. If I just finish. As far as the solution is concerned, I think they're more than necessary. What is to be expected at this point is that we simply decide, as you have said, to support these three, I think very rational steps, raise to 700, identify supplements and hang after the so-called formula. I understand your answer today as your personal support for this law. I hope, however, that, as President of the main coalition party, you will also be able, through Parliament, to contribute this support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u35	Thank you for asking. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u36	As far as these three things you've mentioned now, as far as I know or am sure, the problem is just this formula that is supposed to be introduced, and it's in this formula that is the core of the problem for some people, and it's going to have to be a certain effort to harmonise, I'll say, let's all work together around the calculation and this formula. It is true that the law of the Member States does not need an Economic and Social Council, but it is always wise that all stakeholders concerned are involved. I will also make some efforts in this direction, and I will also meet with employers, personally engage in this and familiarise them with our efforts. Again, I repeat, it would be really good to harmonise that formula that will not come into force immediately 1. 1. 2019, and I think that if we coordinate this, and if we solve this, it will be significantly easier. Once again, I support the effort and will make a personal effort in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. We are moving on to the fifth oral question for the President of the Government. Mrs. Jerca Korcea has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, the well-respected entire Council of Ministers! At the time of the appointment of this government, I have announced that this will be a government of great effort and great coordination. This government really hasn't had a hundred days of peace. I believe, as far as I know the President of the Government, that didn't even go so badly for him, given that a man is an operative, a man who will take a job right away. Still, we may have wanted a little more patience, a little more to hear and not just listen. In these short two months, according to my assessment, the Government has taken quite a few good steps, steps in the right direction, and has also prepared a basis for those things that are still waiting for us and which the Government will carry out. So my question here will be very brief: Please state objectively and according to the points of that thing and the good things that the Government has accepted or prepared during this short period of two months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u39	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u40	Thank you very much. You've managed to smile some here on my right, which is also fine. You found yourself in my previous profession. So thank you for asking. Indeed, since September 13th, when this government was formed, we have not had even, to be honest, we have not expected a hundred days of peace, because everything that will happen has already been announced. We've heard how the elections have been stolen, how the government is made up of the one in second place. I must say, this is not a unique thing in Europe. In Denmark, for example, the Prime Minister of the Party, who was the third in the elections, is President of the Party, so this is nothing new. It's just that we can get weird sometimes, and we've had these cases before. So even for our democracy, it's no wonder. There were a lot of problems at the table. First, of course, negotiations with the unions. The previous government withdrew just before the agreement and the sentence was frozen. And on the first day of September 13th, when the government came together, the unions defrosted the sentences and demanded an immediate first day of resolution. Of course, we also did this, we formed a negotiating group, and there was a lot of misinformation about how we ignore and don't know what. In short, in this society of ours, everyone is quite unwaited, impatient and so forth, but, well, we will survive that too. We're negotiating with the unions, and I don't think there's going to be any way to solve all the sentences at once. However, we are prepared for such an agreement, which will be a union and not just a union, because we do not know who, when we negotiate with the unions, we have in mind Mr Struklj and Mr Počivavšek, who we do not yet know, but in fact we work for the people. In these unions there are people, there are people who work every day, although sometimes the public sector is accepted as some kind of non-digestion, but in the public sector a lot of people work hard to have all the services that citizens and citizens deserve. The public sector is by no means just a public administration, but everything else is. And if the public sector and the real sector, so-called, will not work hand in hand, then there is no state. In short, we are doing a lot of work here, even now the negotiating group is working intensively. Secondly, as previously mentioned, efforts are being made to adopt a minimum wage law. Let me say that with the adoption of social assistance, which has increased or remained at the same level, efforts will also have to be made on the other hand and structural measures taken. This too will have to be done because we know that some are also receiving this help unjustifiably. This will need to be reviewed, and this is also a major task. Then we also have the tax legislation mentioned above, and we have already begun to work here. Then the biggest thing that I think this moment has done most to benefit citizens and citizens and at the same time citizens and citizens, especially in the light of yesterday's local elections, is that if a law on the implementation of the budget is passed, we will give the municipalities 573.5 euros in average, which has not been the practice so far. This will also make it easier for the congregations to carry out their assignments and to invest more easily. That's what we're serious about, too, but I don't think it's possible to save everything in two months. But we are working on all these solutions, and we will also need to approach integrated legislation with the congregations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Ambassador, would you like to? [[You don't want to.]] I note that all five oral questions for the President are consumed, and I thank you for the answers given. We are moving on to the questions addressed to ministers and ministers. Mr Sam Fakin, Minister of Health, will be the first to answer the question of Mr Aleksandra Reberska.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary! For two months you have served as Minister of Health, you are a person who knows the health system well because you served as Director of the hospital, Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, you were Director of Terme and now you are Minister. As Minister, you have a responsibility, as well as an opportunity to improve the health system. If you've always been in an executive capacity before, this time you're in executive custody. We also know what the investigating committee of the National Assembly has recently proved in the field of venous braces that expensive medical equipment and medical devices are still heavily overpaid. For UKC Ljubljana, the Court of Auditors has even found that expensive equipment has been ordered through public procurement or through the fragmentation of public contracts in several million amounts. Thus, in 2014 and 2015, he illegally bought EUR 69 million of medical equipment. I want to know exactly: What measures will you take to curb corruption in the implementation of public procurement in the field of medical equipment and medical devices? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Let me first say that I have met several times with the hospital directors, the professional directors and the presidents of the supervisory boards. One of the points, of course, is public procurement. I personally believe that the contract is a matter for the director of each hospital and his signature with a shaking hand under a decision of the public procurement. Since we cannot avoid this, in the context of the two-year agreements with the suppliers of medicinal products in force from June 2017 to July 2019, we have concluded the meetings by opening up competition for the most favourable suppliers of medicinal products for the period January – July 2019 will conclude the procedure at the end of this year. It's about drugs. In hospitals, as you know, medicines are regulated by several mechanisms, which are key to €500 million, controlled by the Public Medicines Agency and the negotiating team at the Department of Drug Health. This is about medicines in hospitals representing about 8% of the total amount. About 200 million hospitals account for 8%. In December 2018, a new procurement procedure for stents will also be published for all six catheter laboratories, which is expected to be completed within three months. As has already been said, I see this role mainly with the directors of health institutions, if not, we do not need them. The Ministry will, on the basis of data analysis from Intravision – The Intravision is the total price base of everything that is purchased in hospitals – it is about 480,000 records per supplier and price, with the total value of the purchase of medicines and medical devices, that is, according to domestically all that is purchased in hospitals, from 1 January 2016 to 31 August 2018, about 900 million euros. This is about 22, 23% of the total income that hospitals spend on everything they buy medical material that we share on medicines and medical devices. A further measure under the responsibility of the Ministry is the implementation of a semi-precious medical equipment, which is carried out or will be carried out through the Ministry in cooperation with the hospitals for which the purchase is carried out. The public procurement of 10 CT devices for seven hospitals on the basis of uniform technical specifications shall then be public and subject to review by the Court of Auditors. Finally, it should be pointed out that these different prices have been achieved because the supervision boards of hospitals have been under-focused, they call for hospital councils and hospital comparisons and a little less effective management. My personal conviction is that we need to ensure an effective management that will manage prices according to the expected costs that we are doing here, but not to do some supercommissions and supranational institutions that would do so on behalf of hospitals. Then we must decide whether we will have one Slovenian hospital, one holding company of Slovenian hospitals, which will do so on behalf of hospitals and will not be independent, or whether we will have administrations that will manage their work effectively, as they manage it in companies where the director has the authority to issue an order that is not public, but, nevertheless, as the President of the Termane administration, I can say that we have always obtained at least three, five offers for each offer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, would you like to continue? No, no, no. You have successfully answered the first of the six questions. The MPs and the MPs love you. Mr Primož Siter, who has a question for Mr Karl Erjavac, is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Nice greetings from your well-respected colleague and colleague! Question for the Secretary of Defense, who is absent. The Municipality Council of Postojna adopted a decision in June on the cancellation of an agreement on the harmonisation of interest in the use and management of military infrastructure in the Municipality of Postojna. In addition, it adopted a decision authorising the mayor to negotiate an agreement with the Government on a future and substantive plan for the closure of the Poček exercise. Then the Ministry of Defence stopped co-financing the new fire rescue centre in Postojna for 2019 and 2020, as there is no legal basis for this. This suspension of funding was quite surprising because the funding for co-financing was provided for 2019 and in the 2020 plan. I have already asked the Minister in writing whether he would prepare some new legal conditions for the implementation of co-financing and when, he replied that the co-financing contract should be amended and an addendum to this contract should be concluded. It's all good and good up here. Then, in the same breath, he also said that the supplement would define that co-financing for 2019 and 2020 would not be carried out. A little arrogant, if I might add, he added that the congregation should know what it was going into. Given that the Minister is aware that legal acts will need to be amended, he is somehow categorically rejecting the fact or the possibility of co-financing of the already established fire department being carried out. My question will be: Will the Minister of Defence continue to co-finance this centre, which is in the interest not only of the municipality but also of citizens and citizens? It is necessary to know that Postojna lies in a strategic place where important traffic flows through. It's standing near Crassus, who's been exposed to fire, most of all in the country. We also know the case when the acorn came and it was a few years ago. This part of Slovenia urgently needs a fire rescue centre, and therefore my question to the Minister is: Will you allow the co-financing of this centre to continue? Will it have to be financed by the municipality from its budget and, instead of for social, non-profit housing or kindergartens, to channel its budgetary resources to this end? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister is obliged to reply in writing within 30 days because you have not stated that you insist on an oral response. It's a deal. So allow me once again, if you want ministers and ministers who are not present, an oral answer, I will place this question in the next session, but please request it. The following is Mr Aljaž Kovacič, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I myself will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities on the labour market and young people. Young people face many obstacles when entering the labour market. This also leads to the later formation of a family. I believe that we are not paying enough attention to the employment of women during the period of birth. Employers often ask young women about their personal lives, or more specifically about their family plans, during job interviews. They are particularly interested in when they will have children, as this is linked to their absence at the time of their employment. Many times, then, this is the reason for the refusal of the interview candidate, which employers do not officially state in their reply, as they are aware of the illegality of such conduct. This is a problem that is difficult to prevent through normative regulation, but this form of discrimination is unacceptable and must therefore be addressed correctly. Dear Minister, I ask you: What is your policy and what measures are envisaged to encourage the employment of young women at birth and to prevent the unlawful conduct of some employers who ask incorrect personal questions about family design during interviews?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u50	Thank you for your word and thank you for asking. Allow me to begin by stressing that the Labour Relations Act provides for the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of motherhood, parenthood and regulates measures to facilitate the coordination of professional and family life. Any less favourable treatment based on sex, family status related to pregnancy or parental leave is considered discrimination. The Labour Relations Act ensures the worker’s right to protect his privacy, including the right to family life. With regard to the specific issue, I stress the following. Since privacy may be affected before the conclusion of a working relationship, the law prohibits the employer from requiring data from the applicant on family status, pregnancy, family planning and other data which are not directly related to the employment relationship. However, in the event of a dispute concerning the enforcement of special protection due to pregnancy or parenthood, the burden of proof shall be borne by the employer. Any infringements are subject to supervision by the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work and action both in administrative and criminal proceedings with the highest fines at risk ranging from EUR 3 000 to EUR 20 000 for discrimination. Women in Slovenia are mostly full-time employees, as are men. Compared to a number of European countries, their situation is more equal to that of men, and gender differences are smaller, since at a time when young children have little children, they do not mostly stop working careers and do not stay at home. However, there is an increase in the proportion of women who work with shorter working hours during the period when they have young children. We must be aware that work with reduced working hours, if in practice performed by only women, has a negative impact on their position in the labour market. Slovenia has one of the highest levels of employment among EU Member States for women with children. Despite some positive indicators in Slovenia, we need further incentives to increase the employment and employment of women, especially young women with tertiary education. Therefore, the Resolution on the National Programme for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men 2015-2020 also lists among the strategic objectives the same economic independence of women and men, which should be ensured through a high level of employment of women and men in all categories, by reducing vertical and horizontal segregation and by combating discrimination due to gender at work. According to the resolution, data on the situation of women and men in the labour market show that in Slovenia we have managed to maintain some comparative advantages regarding the situation of women and men in the labour market, and in some areas even reduce gender gaps, such as the employment rate of older women, the gender gap in wages. Nevertheless, and despite their average higher education, women face a number of problems with which their sex poses an additional obstacle: harder to find employment, less self-employment and decision making for entrepreneurship, lower jobs and often less career opportunities. Women also experience more negative consequences in the field of employment, as it is often those who adapt to the needs and expectations of the family. Despite increased control over gender discrimination in employment and greater awareness in this area, there are more frequent cases of discrimination than men, particularly in relation to motherhood or parenthood, as well as prejudices related to family and child care. The resolution thus sets two key objectives in relation to the parliamentary question on policies and measures to promote the employment of young women. This, for the first time, is an increase in the employment rate of women, in particular young women with tertiary education and other vulnerable or neglected groups of women, and for the second time, better information on rights and supervision of the implementation of the provisions on the prohibition of discrimination in employment and work and the prohibition of sexual and other harassment and suffering in the workplace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u51	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, would you like to? No, no, no. Thank you very much. This brings us to the tenth question, the question of Master Dejan Kaloha as Minister of Justice, Mrs Andrejo Katič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u52	President, thank you so much for your word. Honourable Minister of Justice Andreja Katič! As you know, the European Court of Human Rights ruled in a dispute between Pro Plus and Slovenia in the second half of October 2018. As a result of the infringement of the right to a fair trial, the State has to pay EUR 52 000 500 to the company and cover EUR 10 000. In their first public response to this decision, the Supreme Court stated that the ECHR did not convince them by its argument and that they respected those decisions which were persuaded by the argument. This scandalous announcement, which was published on the Supreme Court’s website, was then condemned by a number of legal experts, who have shown their will to the Supreme Court. He was also convicted by a group of 11 Supreme Judges. Of course, there's been a precedent. It's a dangerous precedent. In their statement, the Supreme Judges, who have come out of this notice, explicitly stated: “The resistance of the highest court in the country is seen as a rebellion against the international obligations of our country, against the Strasbourg Court, against the Constitution, against human rights, against Slovenia’s membership in the Council of Europe and, last but not least, against the fundamental conduct of law.” Later, the President of the Republic of Slovenia reacted, meeting with the President of the Supreme Court, Mr Floriancic, and the scandalous message was withdrawn. Of course, this message was later condemned by the Council of Justice. Madam Justice Minister, you have been passive, even very passive, in this scandalous case. You only stopped by by a letter from legal experts and after it was big, not to say irreparable damage has already been done. Almost a month after this unheard event today, we do not know who is the author of this rebel press release and what measures the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Court and, of course, the Council of Justice will take against this person or person. Neither the 11 Supreme Judges who are bound by the Constitution nor the professional public nor the citizens know that. How, then, should the people respect the decisions of the courts if the Supreme Court also fails to respect them? Under the Law on Courts, you are obliged to provide an effective service to oversee the organisation of the proceedings. On this legal basis, you could have actively stepped up against the contentious publication as a minister, but you did not. I therefore ask you in this regard the following questions: Why such a late and passive response on your part? What has the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia replied to your request for a written report on this case? What measures will be followed by you to deal with such undemocratic rebellions in the Supreme Court in the future? Have you introduced administrative oversight of the Supreme Court's business in this matter? If so, what did he show? If not, why haven't you introduced him yet? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u54	Dear Mr President, honourable Member! We discussed this issue in more detail three days ago at the 4th urgent meeting of the Justice Committee, it said on Friday 9. 11. I think you were present and that most of the answers to your questions were then heard, but I will repeat it again. I reject your claim that we were late and passive in responding to the Supreme Court's announcement, since we are already 26. 10. go first – also on the website and also on the media – and then 30. 10. also asked the Supreme Court to explain the matter in writing. I think that the President of the Supreme Court, at that meeting we had three days ago, said on Friday, also explained in more detail how the proceedings are now going. I too will wait for the Supreme Court to send a written reply and to make the debate within itself as it must be done. It was clear, however, that the Supreme Court, like the Republic of Slovenia, respected the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and that, as soon as they found out how it was done, they had withdrawn the statement and would respect the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in the future. However, each individual judge can have a different opinion, but it is also in my view as Justice Ministers, and I think it is unacceptable for all of us, too, that such an opinion by the Supreme Court as an institution would be unacceptable, but, of course, different legal opinions also promote good legal practice and I believe that they will be in the future. My answer to your question is: we were not passive, we responded immediately, we requested written explanations. The Supreme Court, I believe in these days, will also make an inside check, inform us, and then we can inform you. I would like to stress, however, that in the international public, the Republic of Slovenia is one model of how to resolve and respect the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u55	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u56	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, in this part, I thank you for your reply. However, now you are saying that you have responded quickly enough, but I stress once again, you responded when this professional legal public responded, only after this letter from those established lawyers did you actually respond. So I think this shows that your response was slow. Because first you waited for this opinion to get messy, which, logically, is because it's a precedent, and then you responded. And in that message, you were pretty clumsy. There you said, but you yourself said that the message published on the Supreme Court's website did not, in the opinion of the Ministry, represent and cannot represent the position of Slovenia. Give me, please, an explanation, an answer to that. For you, I have the following questions regarding your response, which you say was quick: How do you explain these statements that the Supreme Court’s website does not represent and cannot represent the position of Slovenia? The judiciary as the 3rd branch of power as an independent branch of power — what does that mean? Their publications are irrelevant, do they have no weight? So they don't represent the positions of Slovenia? With regard to the opinion, the publications, the allegations made by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, I am interested in: If these are not the opinions of the Republic of Slovenia, after your reply, whose opinions are they? Is there anyone else above them? I don't know, maybe the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Foreign Ministry? Who, then, is above these opinions, the views of the Supreme Court? Thanks for the update.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u58	Thank you. I'll tell you the same thing again: 26. 10. I don’t know for a minute who he was before, whether they were a lawyer or we, but I think it was 2 days or 1 day after the publication of their press release, the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Justice itself also made a statement on the website. I can't agree with your father that this is a late and passive response. And then I said, as I did on Friday at the board meeting, where you probably listened to what had happened at the time. And I'm alone again, and I'm going to say it again today -- that was a public statement. As well as the President of the Supreme Court, he said that this was not the opinion of the Republic of Slovenia, and he apologized for this. And I say for myself that it can be the opinion of an individual lawyer, it cannot and must not be the opinion of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The matter has been withdrawn, internal procedures are under way, and once I have the results, I will also be able to inform you of the effects of these results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u59	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Dejan Kaloh, you want procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u60	Madam Minister, I think that you have somehow succinctly avoided the answers to the questions that have followed, so I ask that the next meeting discuss your answers. I'd like to add this. This isn't about executing the judiciary, it's about communicating the court with the public. This is, of course, part of the broader part of the administration of justice, which is and must be subject to supervision by the Ministry of Justice on the basis of the above-mentioned legal provisions. If I am merely quoting you, article 65a clearly states: “The Minister responsible for justice has set up a supervisory service for the organisation of the business of the courts.” And if I continue with Article 74 of the same law: "In matters of the judiciary, it is up to the judiciary to provide general conditions for the successful exercise of the judiciary." In this part, the Supreme Court was far from being successful, in particular in communicating with the public about this relevant decision of the European Court of Human Rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u61	Thank you. So you are proposing a vote tomorrow. This brings us to the next question that Mrs Lidija Ivanuša will raise to Minister of Health Sam Fakin. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u62	Dear Mr. President! Well, hello, all of you! My question is addressed to Mr Sam Fakin's Ministry of Health. I ask you about the current problem that is present in our health system. The problem is not only topical, but it is also traditional, since in the past it has not taken such a big step as to be positively recognised by the Slovenian public and employees in the healthcare system. The question is: Why are nurses who work at the University Clinical Center tied up in a paid grade with nurses who work in health homes? There are two incomparable situations of hardship. That's why I want to know: Do you intend to propose any changes in salary levels as part of the negotiations? What do you think of the fixed and variable part of the payment of healthcare workers? The next question is: Given the demographic change in our society, it is quite clear that the population is ageing — what are the future plans for home financing for the elderly, given that the need to use these services is increasing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u63	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u64	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for the question. The Public Sector Wage Scheme Act in Article 2, paragraph 1, lays down, inter alia, the common foundations of the public sector wage system, in order to implement the principle of equal pay for equal work in comparable jobs, titles and functions in order to ensure the transparency of the pay system and the incentive to pay. That's number one. As far as the problem is concerned, the Ministry, together with the Ministry of Public Administration, has been solving the human resources problem in the units of intensive therapy of UKC Ljubljana since 2008. Immediately after the introduction of the pay system, problems arose in UKC Ljubljana to organize – of course also elsewhere – and to evaluate midwives, midwives in the postpartum block and middle nurses in intensive therapy three, two and one. It's a profession, it's a nurse who's got professional skills, or they've been working in jobs that's already in the next pay grade, these are the nurses who've graduated. At that time, as a measure of temporary nature, it was resolved by the use of the Institute of Increased Work. As I am aware, some contracts are concluded by 20%, 80%; 20% by higher class, 80% by lower. In addition to the basic salary, civil servants also have part of the payment for performance and allowances, some things have been resolved. Public servants are entitled to a number of data that I will not include. Part of the question you have raised relates to the content of the negotiations with the public sector trade unions, which are taking place right now and I cannot comment on them, as the negotiations have not yet been concluded. But I am getting messages from where they are, and I hope that these so-called standards and standards will be regulated in the context of these negotiations. This is so-called Article 38 of the Health Act. As far as variable remuneration is concerned, this is not regulated by the payroll law. My personal conviction is that this must be brought to the health care institutions, a variable reward. However, before the negotiations began, the conclusion was that the variable work was not open at the moment, since this meant additional funding in the public sector as a whole, and perhaps not in health care if, of course, we were able to deal with the corresponding surplus of income and could share it. As far as population ageing is concerned, we are aware, of course, that it is getting old. The Long-Terms Act is prepared, a key topic, which has not yet been resolved and will be debated in this House, but how will we finance it? The figures we are talking about are from 100 to 200 million euros. Currently there are two, three projects, in Krška, Dravograd and Celje, which will answer the question of how to organize and for how much and what problems there will be in organizing long-term care. As far as standards and standards are concerned, several sub-groups for standards and standards have been set up at the Ministry and have not started work due to these powers. One of the tasks is to prepare a proposal for baseline health profiles standards at different levels of health activity. We want to establish a transparent system where standards follow the needs of users or patients and not necessarily the status of the operator. As you know, I advocate numbers and measurements, and I hope that we will not be able to comment on this work until the end, at least we agree that these standards or standards, which are supposed to apply to certain tasks, are also defined. However, my personal conviction is that the standards, as far as anyone can do in the time unit, determine the management of hospitals or the management of health institutions according to the current situation. This cannot be framed at country level into one framework and then used in a meaningful or earlier sense in individual locations.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u65	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Madam Ambassador, would you like a supplement? No, no, no. This brings us to the next question, on the question of Mr Sam Bevik to Minister of Culture Dejan Prešič. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! The question of the draft law on the provision of certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture or the cultural euro law is addressed to Mr Dejan Prešič, Minister of Culture. In the past period, the Slovenian cultural space has also been programmed, infrastructured, human resources unfortunately, in many ways, suppressed by the work of our society, and at every national celebration, we stress that culture, language, fundamental and intangible heritage is the foundation, the basic essence of our statehood, our primary social linkage. As soon as you entered your term of office, Mr Minister, you announced the immediate introduction of the so-called Cultural Euro Act, which Slovenian culture is still looking forward to and needs, as the latter has expired since 2013. I'm asking you: What stage is the proposal of the law? What did the inter-ministerial coordination bring? What are the comments of the professional public? What are the key coordinated solutions? When can we expect a bill in the National Assembly? For your answer, Mr. Secretary, I thank you very much in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I also agree that the law is urgently needed as such in the light of the situation currently in the field of culture in Slovenia, both in the infrastructure itself, which is quite old and which has not been invested, and of course in the content itself. Some information about the law itself. The law was published on the 27th. 9. 2018 on E-democracy and on the website of the Ministry of Culture, deadlines for comments were up to 5. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We tried to present the law to the public as wide as possible by having the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of Historical Cities of Slovenia, the National Council for Culture of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Council for Library Activities of the Republic of Slovenia. We have received quite a few comments, which do not have much impact on the content itself, but perhaps more on the timescale and the amount of resources to be invested. The responses were from the Natural History Museum of Slovenia, the National Council for Culture commented, the National Council for Library Activities, the Association of Slovenian General Libraries, the NUK commented, the University Library of Maribor, the Community of Slovenia, the Association of Municipalities of Slovenia, the Municipality of Celje, the Municipality of Ljubljana, the Association and several natural persons. At the same time, of course, the law was sent to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Public Administration, the SVZ, which thus made their comments. We have now made a table for the comments that we consider justified and which have also given us a different view of the law itself and we would like to include them. The table has already been sent to the Ministry of Finance with which we coordinate our comments and, in the light of the decisions of the Ministry of Finance, the comments of the Ministry of Public Administration and the SCFSP, we will try to harmonise the law and then put it into consideration later. As such, according to our assumption, we hope that we could also go through parliamentary hearings there by March, April, in May, if we could then somehow succeed, so that with some public call, maybe there is still a need to say about the law that there are no specific projects that we would like to carry out because of the previous experience of such laws, because when you mention projects, and then if these projects are not carried out, of course you cannot use this money further because it is specified for certain activities. [[…]] So if the law were to be adopted, then we would make a call, which is determined by content, in terms of infrastructure and other areas, so that both municipalities and cultural institutions would propose why this money would be used, and then a commission would determine which projects would go into effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, would you like to continue? No, no, no. This brings us to the next question. For Minister Mag. Alenko Bratušek will ask the question. Branislav Rajić. [[They're gone.]] I note that this question is not possible, and we are moving on to a question for the Minister of the Interior, Mr Boštjan Poklukar. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! On 17 September 2018, a body was allegedly discovered in a bunker or shelter above the railway station in Obreje, Radeč, from the period following World War II. Various media have reported this. The investigators have notified the police. I want to know: Is it true that several bodies were found, including the bodies of children? Were the bodies identified, or were they victims of post-war beatings, or was it said, perhaps for a Croatian citizen, a political prisoner? What did the police do? What will happen next to the victims and the found bunker?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u71	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 17 September 2018, the citizen was informed by telephone to the police, the police's operational and communication centre Celje Police Administration, that they had encountered a dead body in the bunker above the apartment house in Obrež in Radeče municipality, which has been there for more than ten years. It was found that the registered location of the alleged hidden grave number 522, named Obrežje, is the Bunker Cemetery, which was registered in June 2007. On 5 June 2007, the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia carried out a field tour of the cemetery bunker to address the issues of hidden graves. At the time of the professional excavation and anthropological analysis of human bone remains from the registered cemetery Obrežje, Radeče was found to contain 128 bone remains belonging to at least five adult males. Experienced age, this is the age of death, for two people about 20 years of age, younger than the two were between 18 and 23 years of age and older between 20 and 24 years of age. The age of the next two men is about 30 years, less than two people between 27 and 32 years, and an older person between 30 and 35 years. The age of the fifth person was about 40 years. Children's bones were not found in the cemetery. Identification was carried out on the basis of the items found. All found pieces or parts of footwear and clothing can be reliably identified as objects of military character or as remnants of military uniforms and equipment. There were no signs and symbols on the items to help determine which military formations were owned by persons. As I mentioned earlier, it's a covert burial ground for victims of extrajudicial beatings. The cemetery has already been entered into the records of hidden graves under number 522, led by the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to resolve the issues of hidden graves. The police inspected the site, where it was found that people were using a digger to open the bunker to remove the land in front of the bunker and tore through the concrete plate. After all the findings were made, they were 17 years old. 9. 2018 informed on-call investigative judge from the District Court in Celje and district attorney from the District Attorney's Office in Celje. On the day of the 18th. 9. 2018 police have notified the District Attorney's Office of their findings and are now continuing to investigate the suspicion of the criminal service of obstructing the funeral and defiance of the grave under Article 312 of the Penal Code. The remains will be transferred to the tomb as in all other cases. The site was repaired, restored to its original condition and the marking or fence of the cemetery was carried out. It is our civil duty to show the victims the fifth and highest degree of human dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u73	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Madam Ambassador, would you like to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u74	So you stated that there were five adults in this cemetery or the seafront or whatever you say, but you didn't tell me how they died. Because it was stated that at least one of the bodies had been burned or charred. Since it's a bunker or a shelter or whatever, I'm also wondering: Are you also investigating what was going on there, whether it was the object of the Udba or something else? What will happen to this facility, or who owns it? It was stated that it was because of ownership that they opened up the whole thing. After reporting to the media, there is also a piece of concrete. I want to know: Did you remove that, find out if the victim could be more? So that we will not be like the Great Cave after all the concrete obstacles have been removed, we find that the corpse is substantial. According to some data, this is supposed to be Croatian citizens. You say that there were no remains or objects found near the bodies so that they could safely claim it. In this regard, I am interested in: Do you, in such a case, inform the Republic of Croatia if it is their citizens that the bodies are then taken away, or do we bury them in our tombs and tombs? And what they said was that when these things were happening, the police would protect it. We know that in the previous system this has often happened because the police were in the service of the state and also protected human rights violations and so on. I want to know: Are there any documents in the archives of the police station or anything like that, any reports to prove it?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u75	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. The matter is still in the stage of the investigation, so I cannot present the conclusions to you myself, but I believe that when the matter is at this stage that we can present it, we will also present it in a way that will be clear and answered to all your questions. I want us to address all these graves in accordance with civilisation standards, and the government's commission to address the issues of hidden graves is actually working on this in accordance with its plan and priorities which the Government has. With regard to the issue of my powers as Minister of the Interior, the police will act legally, professionally and in accordance with their powers at such events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u78	You haven't answered my question about what will happen to this facility in the future, and it probably wouldn't hurt to explain the history of our people if they knew whether it was a shelter or a Udba bunker or not what was going on there. But it's probably coming from what's still in there to figure out a lot of things. I propose that we hold a debate on your reply, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u79	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. We will vote on your motion tomorrow. This brings us to the next question, Mr Blaž Pavlin to Minister for Culture Dejan Prešič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u80	Mr. Dejan Prešiček, Minister of Culture! The Agency for Communications Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia, Akos, has published a proposal for a general act amending and supplementing the Methodology of Control of Audiovisual Media Services and Radio Programmes. The proposal lays down in its Article 7 the way in which the proportion of Slovenian music played is determined by law governing the media. The new provisions provide that the proportion of Slovenian music played in radio and television programmes is identified as the ratio between the number of all songs played and the number of Slovenian songs. These provisions, however, run counter to the aims and objectives of the Media Act, which regulates the proportion of Slovenian music in radio and television programmes in its 86th Article. The draft law on amendments and supplements to the Media Act, which introduced the provisions of Article 86 into the law, clearly states that the purpose of the Act is to increase the share of the broadcasting time available for the music of Slovenian origin and not to contribute to the number of songs played, as set out in the above proposal for a general act. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: Are you assessing that the proportion of Slovenian music played is appropriate and the legal way to determine the ratio between the number of all songs played or the number of Slovenian songs, as set out in the proposal for a new methodology? Are you assessing that a more appropriate way of determining the share of the broadcasting time would be? The second paragraph of the proposal of the new 20th Article, in part of Slovenian music under the law governing the media, also includes Slovenian music when used as a musical basis. This is not the case in other cases, i.e. foreign music content where music used as a musical basis is not considered as a programming content. This is the basis for effectively reducing the share of Slovenian music based on an unjustified distinction between Slovenian and foreign music. I want to know: Do you estimate that the way to determine the proportion of Slovenian music, where the musical basis with Slovenian music is included in the calculation of the share of Slovenian music and the musical basis with foreign music is not legal? Thank you very much for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u81	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u82	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The methodology for the control of audiovisual media services and radio programmes, which is by its legal nature a general act of the Agency, is not a provision that could lay down legal obligations, but that Akos, as the competent independent regulatory authority with it, should only specify in more detail how to determine the fulfilment of legal requirements and the classification of programme content or regulations other issues that do not arise in the exercise of competent control. I believe that these changes concerning the performance of the calculation of the proportion of Slovenian music are therefore in no way prejudice to the legal obligations laid down in Article 86 of the Media Act. Let me explain where this problem came from, so I don't just read this explanation. At the moment, radio stations really had to determine for a second exactly how much Slovenian music they were playing, which is also correct, we are talking about 20% of Slovenian music that has to be on radio stations. If it happened by accident that the cancellation peak had come before, that it was possible to cut the moderator for traffic accidents or anything else into the Slovenian music itself, they had to recalculate and prove how they had little Slovenian music at the end of the day, say 15 seconds. And this, of course, to large houses such as RTV, may not cause such problems, because many people are, and to smaller radio houses, this causes a lot of administrative work, which I think is absolutely unnecessary. Here is only a question of how this share will be determined, which will in particular be much more viable for smaller radio houses, and this will by no means reduce the amount of Slovenian copyright that has to be broadcast at radio stations. Thus, it seems to me personally that this intervention will not affect the share of Slovenian music at radio stations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador? Thank you very much. We are done with this question. We turn to the next question addressed to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pical, and to the Minister of Culture, Mr Dejan Prešič, and will be addressed by Mrs Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Dear President, both ministers! My question is that the week is Democracy 7. 9. 2018 published on its website the so-called Parents' Manual on how to protect children in schools from LGBT(Q) activists and multiculturalism. The author of Andrej Perko’s article states that they publish, quote, “reasonable recommendations to parents about how to protect children in school from harmful LGBT activists and the agenda of multiculturalism”. Among the recommendations is the call for parents to sabotage the proposals of schools and teachers who propose their candidates to the school boards and the school council, and to quote, "proposed candidates are almost certainly supporters of multiculturalism and LGBT activists" and that parents prefer to propose their candidates, which will make it easier for them to take control. Furthermore, the manual calls on parents to boycott certain content, such as the cultural day with LGBT content, urges parents not to send their children to school or anything like that if the LGBT activist is forecast. The manual further advises parents to show by practical examples that the activist LGBT or the multiculturalist in the school lied. This contribution is used by the term “harmful LGBT activists” and the LGBT minority is referred to as “substantiates, liars and threats to school children”. She's asking her parents not to send her kid to school. The publisher of the weekly Democracy is New Horizon Publishing, d.o.o., which also receives money from public funds, resulting in the spread of homophobia, xenophobia and intolerance to all others through public support. In this regard, I ask both ministers: What will the Ministry of Culture do, including in terms of the creation of new media legislation, to prevent and sanction the increasingly widespread practice of public dissemination of intolerance and hate discourse? From the point of view of the Ministry of Education, are homophobic and xenophobic speech allowed in the handbook and the public dissemination of intolerance and hatred toward others? From the point of view of the Ministry of Education, is it legal to invite parents to sabotage and boycott LGBT minorities and multiculturalism and to invite parents not to send their children to school? Thank you so much for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u85	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your questions. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u86	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Member, all present! I think it's still necessary to say bob beans, and that is that such an invitation is, however, inappropriate. I think it is in a democratic society to invite anyone to sabotage anything, but simply inappropriate. It is bad if someone asks parents not to send children to a school for which taxpayers, all other workers in education and education, in short, all those who work professionally to ensure that the school works according to the best possible criteria, calling for internationally comparable criteria not to send a child to school. [[…]] The Slovenian school is plural, is non-ideological and does not want to turn in any direction in this respect. And secondly, if I may say so, when it comes to human rights violations, let's talk about it publicly, because today is someone else, tomorrow will be me, then someone else will be there again. And you know, simply as far as human rights are concerned, they are indivisible, they are for everything and it is right when there is a violation to talk about. I would also like to point out that this is not without the basis of legislation. 2. Article 2 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education states very clearly that the aim of the education and education system in the Republic of Slovenia is to educate for mutual tolerance, develop awareness of gender equality, respect for diversity and cooperation with others, respect for children and human rights and fundamental freedoms, develop equal opportunities for both sexes and develop the ability to live in a democratic society. I will stop here because my fellow Minister for Culture has something to add to this answer, but if I understand the President correctly, we have five minutes together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Your Honor! According to the Media Act, the Republic of Slovenia's Cultural and Media Inspectorate is a separate body which, when declaring or declaring an official duty or self-declaration, determines illegal media content or the conformity of publication with media law. In this publication – in view of the inspectorate I asked him to give his opinion – they said it would be very difficult to determine or prove that there was a violation of the Media Law here. The problem of the Law on Media, as regards what the Member has asked, is also that in cases where it is breached, we cannot impose sanctions or fines because there is no legal basis for it. We strive to regulate this law when it comes to writing a new media law, which must be regulated not only because of this but also because of the rapid technological development and emergence of new media.This law will need to be regulated and we will strive to have the legal basis by which the inspectorate will be able to pass fines, as we know in Germany and other democratic countries, where, I must say, this is also very applicable and where fines are pronounced when legislation is infringed. [[…]] Personally, however, here with my colleague I would absolutely agree that such calls and such statements are absolutely inappropriate. I believe that I myself have worked almost my entire life in education, that we do not have some set-ups, but that there are different opinions about life. And I am very glad that we are still living in a society that allows this to be allowed and does not sanction if we do not live by some standards that one would like to set. Once again, there will be no difference: I absolutely disagree with the article that he was, condemn him, and I find him inappropriate. How, though, through the legislation currently in existence to ensure that media legislation has been really broken here is another thing. But because, as I said, this law also needs to be amended, it needs to be added that this will also be regulated at this level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u88	Thank you. Madam Members, would you like to ask a supplementary question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u89	Thank you for the opportunity to make it up to me. Public education is clearly the target of some boycott calls and so on. And now we see where 100 per cent of the funding of these private schools would go – obviously in financing a particular ideology, where we would never allow any multiculturalism or content to be allowed with respect for differences. And that is also why we are opposed to this proposal in Levica. Not only politics, but also irresponsible companies are responsible for the worrying situation in our country. In fact, the list of companies that support these hostile media through their advertisements is from Triglav, Telekom Slovenije, Petrol, T-2, Telemach, Mercator and calls have already been made for these companies to start boycotting. How else can they be told that they have to be so aware and civicly aware that they need to look at what content they finance and what they actually support? They help to spread fear, hatred, xenophobia, racism, chauvinism and so on. Now that media legislation will change, you have now morally condemned it. I want to know: In addition to a moral judgment, what will you do to stop such things? For if we do nothing, you know, but some do not want to, most of us do not want to live in such a society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u90	Do you want to reply further? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u91	Thank you for asking. I think it is necessary to define more explicitly what hate speech means, what fake news is, what false news is, so that the law and, of course, the inspectorate can better sanction and answer these questions. This is currently very generally written, so it is very difficult to determine when we crossed the line when the hate speech began when the information was not correct. As long as there's no specific indication of who was, who was framed, why someone was there, it's very hard to say it was false news. In this case, no one was specifically attacked and the current legislation is so widely written that, to be perfectly honest, it is almost impossible or very difficult to sanction it. Since you asked what you would do — about this, it seems to me that the new law, which will be written, should be more explicit in determining which limits there are still opinions that differ from one another, and where we crossed that line when it becomes false news, hate speech, and, of course, it should then be sanctioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Would you like to make a procedural proposal? Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u93	Of course, I want this to be discussed, because we are always talking about where the boundaries of the hate speech are. The boundaries are perfectly clear. When someone calls for illegal, anti-constitutional action, it's a crossed border. Are we waiting for the word meat to become? I think it's too late then. And as far as I know, primary school is compulsory and kids have to go to school. Whoever's calling for the kids not to go to school has crossed the limit. It is also unacceptable to harm other people's lives, inviolability. And when someone calls for someone to do something aggressively, they've crossed the line. I think we're being too pervasive about this issue and it's perfectly clear what the constitution says, what the law says. That is why we have laws and a constitution – to protect citizens. But now we can witness threats to various groups, calls for disrespect by state authorities, calls for people to arm themselves, even though we know that our country is working and that we have an army, a police force. But here is the point where we must say no decisively if we are to maintain order in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u94	Thank you. Your procedural proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The following will raise the oral question of Minister Carmen Furman to Minister of the Interior of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Poklukar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u95	Thank you so much for your words, Chairman, and welcome to all present! A new law on registration of residence entered into force in August 2017. This is intended, inter alia, to prevent the systematic abuse of residence registrations, on the basis of which the number of fictitious applications of foreign residences which on this basis acquire a number of social and other rights has increased. In order to prevent such abuses, by adopting a new law, the administrative unit has become a criminal body which is legally competent to determine the actual situation on the ground. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: What work processes and on the basis of which criteria are monitored, monitored and, above all, prevented the abuse of the residence address institution in the area of their administrative unit, especially in view of the fact that an average number of foreigners present and also reported are detected in the area of individual administrative units? As an example, I can point out here my administrative unit in Slovenska Bistrica. We know that today it is important to have a registered address of residence in the Republic of Slovenia, as it further allows for a number of social transfers, rights and ratings. In practice, we are all well aware of the cases of residence applications only with a view to obtaining different social transfers, the right to an allowance for a separate life, the right to family reunification, the right to an individual to enter the Republic of Slovenia from a study, and then this person never studies in our country and so on. Therefore, I also have the feeling that there is no link between the different registers containing the necessary data to prevent such abuses and that the competent authorities act only partially or that they do not cooperate. How else am I supposed to explain cases where an entrepreneur has several hundred people registered at the address of his store or when thousands of people are registered in a particular production hall of an entrepreneur? In view of the above, I am also interested in: Who exercises control over officials exercising the right to apply for residence? If such controls have been carried out, what irregularities have been identified so far? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u96	Minister Boštjan Poklukar, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Chairman. Messengers and Members! Dear Member! Initially, I explain that the register of the permanent population does not keep data on the use of the building, but only on the addresses to which the applications are made, so data on the maximum number of applications in the apartment or apartment house cannot be transmitted. However, we can provide information on the maximum number of applications per address. According to the data on Day 16. 11. 2018 was the largest permanent residence registered at 10 addresses, from 181 to 449 persons with permanent residence. There are ten addresses with the largest number of people registered. In most cases it is the addresses of social work centres and the addresses of municipalities, since these addresses are the subject of marriage. The statutory residence is a permanent residence established to an individual in the process of determining the permanent residence of vulnerable categories of individuals for whom it is not possible to apply, such as homeless persons. The latter, however, allows them to exercise rights relating to permanent residence, including regulated health insurance. The registered legal residence is 2 000,623 individuals. However, upon registration of a permanent residence, the individual must provide proof of the right of residence at the address declared by him. They shall consider a declaration of ownership or co-ownership, a lease or a lease, the consent of the owner, one co-owner or landlord. The administrative unit shall verify the ownership or co-ownership data in the official records, if necessary. In the event of an abuse, the individual is obliged to state the true data, which are confirmed by his own signature, and in the event of an abuse, the law provides for a fine for an offence of between 200 and 600 euros. In the event of doubt as to the reality of the data provided in accordance with the guidelines of the Ministry of the Interior, an official who carries out the application may also, when a larger number of individuals have already been reported at a given address, introduce a procedure to verify the authenticity of the application. If the municipality or other person has the information that individuals who do not really reside there have been fictitiously registered on a given address, they may so inform the administrative unit which, in accordance with the Residence Registration Act, introduces a procedure for determining their permanent residence. In 2016, 14 thousand 794 findings were addressed in administrative units and 11 thousand 589 in 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u98	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Mr Jani Ivanuš, as well as by the Minister of the Interior, Mr Boštjan Poklukar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u99	Nice greetings to all, Mr. Minister, to all present! I have one question, I ask with regard to the border police, with the Republic of Croatia, how long will the Croatian police continue to work on our side of the border? In my mind, of course, I have the border congregation of Ormož and the Centre near Drava. I want to know: Under what conditions do they function, and why is it still so, since most Croatian police officers have already retreated to their country? Are there any other border crossings with the Republic of Croatia where the situation is like in Ormož and at the Centre near Drava? I would like to submit another information memo I received from Slovenian police officers: “Most Slovenian police officers and Croatian police officers do not want to work together. What the bosses say every day in the analysis — that everything is okay — is a big lie. They write that because, of course, no one hopes to expose themselves. Let them do an anonymous poll and see the result. The fact that the work will take place faster than one stop controle, if we are together, does not hold, because nothing is going any faster, is going much worse or slower. Even this time of Croatian police officers on our side of the border – and we know what Croatia is like in these stories, it can quickly happen that the border will already be on our side." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u100	Minister Boštjan Poklukar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Chairman. Your Honor! The common border control under the so-called one-stop rule is carried out at the vast majority of border crossings, totalling 37 between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of an inter-State agreement between the two governments on the regulation of border control posts. The agreement which entered into force after Croatia's entry into the EU sets out the border crossing points at which the common border controls are carried out and other conditions of operation of Croatian officials, thereby ensuring better traffic flow or shorter waiting periods. Such arrangements were encouraged by the EU among its members who have not yet entered the Schengen area. Slovenia had such arrangements with Austria and Hungary prior to entry into the Schengen. The delegation of power to adopt delegated acts is conferred on the Commission subject to the conditions laid down in this Article. The Agreement in the second chapter sets out a way of carrying out border controls, the powers of host police officers and actions in cases of detected infringements. The order of implementation of the border control shall depend on the direction of the border crossing. Thus, at the exit, the Slovenian police officer first carried out border controls and later his entry Croatian police officer. When entering Slovenia, the first exit check is carried out by the Croatian police officer, later the entry of the Slovenian police officer. The procedure for an individual border police officer shall be considered completed when a police officer passes the documents to a police officer or a passenger. Police officers use their national legislation in handling procedures. At border crossings where Croatian security authorities carry out border checks at Slovenian police facilities, they pay compensation and operating costs. In more detail, the scope of the operating costs is laid down in a specific civil law contract. Both countries have committed themselves to allow host authorities to install and install the technical and telecommunications facilities necessary to carry out border controls. Foreign staff shall have a service card and a special mandate to carry out border controls at these border crossings. The agreement was subsequently amended, only with regard to the implementation of the common border control at the border crossing point of the Coast. In view of the initiation of the systematic border control and the specificity of the motorway border crossing, and after a few months of trying border control in their territory, the States agreed to amend the agreement on this border crossing, namely the Coast. At other border crossings there are no changes and border police officers in both countries are jointly carrying out border controls. We estimate that the agreement still serves the faster movement of passengers across the common border. The same applies to the two border crossing points mentioned above, that the Croatian security authorities continue to carry out border checks in accordance with the agreement in the Slovenian territory. All I have to say is that, given that you are informed by the police that they would not do so, I do not actually have this information, Slovenian police officers are working in accordance with the laws, regulations and rules they have within the police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr Ivanus, he wants to ask a supplementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u103	Yeah. In any case, I will not make an additional one, but I will request a written reply in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u104	Sir, you've received an oral response. You will receive a written answer to a written question.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u105	Then we will demand that the debate be held in the National Assembly. That's what's going on.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u106	You can do that.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u107	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u108	Good. Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The next question will be asked by the Minister of Infrastructure of Magi. Mr Alenki Bratušek Member Mr Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u109	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister! For you, I have quite a few specific questions about the areas, more than the necessary infrastructure projects, and most importantly, these projects will certainly be implemented, only the start time and the end of the implementation is unknown, so of course I ask you this. Your answers are intended primarily for the people of Zasavje to get a clear picture of what will happen positively in Zasavje, where infrastructure projects are, unfortunately, still too rare, despite many previous promises made by previous governments. For all these projects, I am interested in the specific situation: At what stage is the individual project? What exactly has been done? Has the State Spatial Plan already been adopted? Who's going to be the concessionaire? Are Lands Been Ransomed? Are financial resources provided? What problems do performers face? I am also interested in the exact timing, i.e. the month, the year, the planned start and completion of the construction, and when the facility should be dedicated to use. My question is very broad, so now I am asking you for an oral answer, but I want those essential information in writing, purely concrete answers as soon as possible. These saviva projects, which will eventually bring added value to the infrastructure image of the whole country and have a positive impact on the neighbouring provinces, are: reconstruction of the main road through Dol pri Hrastnik, construction of the Trbovlje – Prebold tunnel and connection to the highway in Savina Valley and then connecting road from the tunnel to Hrastnik, this road continues to the new road, the connection of Hrastnik–Zidani bridge. Furthermore, the construction of this new road Hrastnik – the Wall Bridge, the individual stages and the order of the beginning; we know that this State Spatial Plan for this road was adopted already in 2010, and nothing is happening on this project or something is happening, you will tell what is going on. And the construction of a hydro power plant in Central Savi, who will be the concessionaire, whether the construction is recorded in its plans for the following years and whether a financial structure is provided. You will also say something about the railway near the place of Zgornji Hotič, the course of the route has already been determined, there I was in Zgornje Hotič, when the construction will be completed, and according to the data I have, this construction was completed around 2022 and 2023. And in the end, you might also say something about the novelty of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mines Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. I suggest you have the Minister of Mag. Alenka Bratušek answered orally. If you need another written answer, you'll ask for it later. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u111	Thank you very much. A nice greeting to all, ladies and gentlemen of the Members, for the first time in this city! Road safety and transport infrastructure are two priorities that are also enshrined in our coalition agreement. And I hope that you will all help me together, that these two priorities also actually remain our priorities below. Now I am going on to specific projects that the Member has mentioned. The first project was the reconstruction of the main regional road through Dol pri Hrastnik. The estimated value of the investment is € 2.7 million, of which the municipality of Hrastnik must provide about 200 million, our department or ministry a million and a half. The municipality of Hrastnik accepted the OPPPN, which is supposed to be the basis for the preparation of the project for the implementation of the regulation of this road. The purchase of the facilities envisaged for demolition is ongoing in accordance with this document. In preparation, the project task for the PZI documentation and the call for the development of PZIs for roads and PGD and PZIs to remove the planned demolition and replacement facilities. According to the Ministry’s assessment, the post-review dossier could be obtained in 2019, followed by the purchase of the necessary land and the call for construction envisaged in the following year and year 2020. Of course, it is our condition, or our common commitment, that an adequate amount of resources should be made available in the national budget or in the balance sheet. The next project, mentioned above, is the new construction of Trbovlje to the A1 motorway. I can also say here that an agreement is signed on the joint preparation of a regional spatial plan for the connection of Zasavje to the A1 motorway between the municipalities of Hrastnik, Trbovlje, Prebold and the Republic of Slovenia Infrastructure Directorate. The municipalities must select a coordinator to coordinate their interests and draw up a regional spatial plan and the Directorate will order all the necessary professional bases. One invitation to tender had already been issued, unfortunately there had been no tenders on this first invitation to tender, and two tenders had arrived on the second one. The third project is the construction of the new road Hrastnik–Zidani bridge. The State Spatial Plan was adopted already in 2012, a project task for the production of PGD, PZI project documentation was developed, but there is one problem, because of the relocation of the location of the Suhadol hydroelectric power plant, it will be necessary to adjust the solutions from the DN Hrastnik-Zidani bridge. The coordination of the project task between HSE is said between the Slovenian Power Plant Holding and our Directorate, which is responsible for this investment. A proposal for a protocol between MZI and HSE was prepared concerning the activity and sharing of costs due to the shift of Suhadol hydropower plant. There is currently an order to amend the VAT. As regards the concession contract for the construction of power plants in Central Sava, nothing has actually changed with regard to the concessionaire. It is still HSE because I am assured by lawyers that, unlike those who received this concession, it is not possible. The ILO, the Ministry of Environment and Space, is the holder of the preparation of the concession contract and will also sign it, but we are constantly in contact with the Ministry of Environment and Space and this is one of our great priorities. At the beginning of the term of office, the objective was to sign this concession contract by the end of the year. I hope and I want local communities to understand that some things can be arranged because we are going to build hydroelectric plants, and all the local problems will not be solved because of these constructions. Fifth, it's called Hotič Road, as you said, but if I can explain below, because there is also a colleague on this particular road asking questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr Hršak, please, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u113	With this information, the minister made me quite aware of it. It wasn't all perfect, so I'm going to demand a written answer when it can be more extensive. However, I would like to give you the opportunity to complete this answer with regard to the railway at Zgornji Hotič and then with regard to the problems surrounding the novel RTH Law, if you can say anything, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Just an explanation. You can get a written answer to a written question. The Minister may decide to give you an explanation in writing if she fails to respond or cannot respond. I now propose, Madam Minister, that you answer the question raised. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u115	If the Member allows, as I said before, I will talk about that road, Hótič or Hłtič, as you say, in one of the following questions, because my colleague is asking exactly the same question. And I'll spend time on RTH, if you don't mind. 31. 12. 2018 is the cut-off date for RTH. Because I know very well the problem of the operation of this mine, because even when I was the President of the Government, I met and solved the problems in this mine, as soon as I took over the ministry, I met this problem very thoroughly with my colleagues. We have prepared a new law that would allow the mine to operate for another two years and that would allow the mine to absorb until the end the funds that are earmarked in accordance with state aid for the closure of the mine. Some unloving events happened in the middle. The desire to operate this mine for another five years, the desire to provide more resources, after talking to the Slovenian State Holding Company, which is the administrator on behalf of the country, and after talking with the Ministry of Finance, I withdrew the proposal, which was already in the government procedure, and at this point we are waiting exclusively for the agreement of Rudnik, SDH and the Ministry of Finance. I practically every day appeal to them to do so as soon as possible, because if we do not accept the law by the time it can be enforced before the end of the year, I think we have missed the train a little bit. So for a while there is this two-year plan that the Mine had to draw up in accordance with the instructions of the Slovenian State Holding Company, as I know, is now awaiting the approval of the Rudnik Supervisory Board and the Slovenian State Holding Board. And if you're given a green light by two institutions or an organ and an institution, then there's no obstacle that I wouldn't put the law back into practice. But here we all work together to make sure that even if there is to be an emergency session, this law will be enforced before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u116	Mr. Khršak, do you have a procedural proposal? No, no, no. All right, then we'll continue with the questions of the Member States. The next is Susana Lepi Šimenko, who will ask the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food Dr. Aleksandri Pivec an oral question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u117	Thank you so much for saying that. Halose, unique, picturesque, hilly landscape, one area with exceptional but unfortunately untapped potentials. Unfortunately, the growing area is growing, which is, of course, the result of an unfavourable demographic picture, as a result of the fact that the population in this area is old enough to see young people in this area not actually see the possibility of survival in farming and, of course, to go to the valley, to go where they are near jobs. And what is also a problem is that in fact many farms that are still in the area have no successor. In the past term, we have talked about Haloz at several meetings in the National Assembly. A number of oral and written questions were raised and a government working group was set up to define concrete measures for the integrated development of the Haloz area. But despite the fact that many times we have pointed out that these measures must be separate only for Halose, this has simply not happened. Unfortunately, I have been so repeatedly warned on the ground that the situation in the Haloz area has not improved. Therefore, of course, the distinguished Minister, who knows the Haloz area extremely well and who, last but not least, has advocated the development of this area, I ask the following questions: What measures does it intend to take in the agricultural field for the development of the Haloz area? Will the rural development programme provide the necessary financial resources to build broadband in this area, so that actually once only the entire Haloz area may be covered by internet connection? What will be the total amount of money to be allocated to the implementation of the measures for the development of the Haloz area? All I'm interested in is the Haloz area. When, of course, will these funds be provided in the budget? I'm also interested in the following: If the Honourable Minister may be in favour of adopting a special law for Haloze, with which, of course, could it allow for the full development of this area? I would like to request an oral response from the Minister at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u118	Thank you very much. We're moving on. The next is Mrs Natasa Sukič, who will raise the oral question of the Magi. Kseniya Klampfer, Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u119	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Nice greetings to all present! I would like to ask the Minister about the social activation of women from other cultural backgrounds, namely, on 7 April 2017, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities published a call for the co-financing of short social activation programmes and in this context was intended for the social activation of women from other cultural backgrounds. Let me say that in the last two years, this programme has proved to be an extremely, above average success. It originated in several places: in Jesenice, in Velenje, in Kranj, in Celje, in Maribor and in Ljubljana. Some 120 women from other cultural backgrounds were included in these programmes. After completion of trainings, 14% of participants have been employed and 45% of participants continue to study or participate in Slovenian language courses or are included in the Active Employment Policy scheme. The social activation programme empowered participants with knowledge of Slovenian, digital literacy and so on. In addition, these projects have proved to be extremely interesting and successful at local level, as they have brought together a number of stakeholders, up to 10 different partnerships have been concluded among different stakeholders, such as municipalities, administrative units, libraries, health homes, schools, kindergartens, social work centres, public universities, hospitals. In short, it is all these stakeholders who face the challenges of integration of immigrants and immigrants at their daily level. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you: Do you intend to repeat these calls for these social activation programmes? If you intend to do so, I would like to know: When will these invitations be published? If not, I wonder: What could be the reason for this, given that it is co-financing, for the European funds provided up to 2022? Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, Master Kseniya Klampfer, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u121	Thank you for your word and thank you for asking. Initially, Slovenia has not developed a comprehensive system of social activation that adequately connects the social security services system with active employment policies while at the same time allowing for the proper treatment of vulnerable groups who are unable to enter the labour market directly or who have not reached levels for inclusion in active employment policy programmes. Above all, it is a problem of long-term unemployed persons and long-term recipients of financial social assistance. The latter often have different complex social problems and are socially excluded and are difficult to employ because of their situations and characteristics. This is a pilot project, which, on the basis of experience gained from different stakeholders, from operators, social activation coordinators and users and evaluations, is complementary and also changing. As regards the development of a comprehensive model of social activation of the system itself, it may be said that the project is aimed at establishing a comprehensive system of social activation, which ensures transparent, coordinated and comprehensive treatment in the social activation of the persons involved, and adequately connects all relevant institutions. By establishing a single entry point both at social work centres and employment institutions, by employing 54 persons in social activation units, by establishing a system of cooperation between all stakeholders in the field of social activation in the field of social, health, education, employment, justice, police, NGOs and humanitarian organisations. Progress on this project, if possible only to put it out a little bit – a single entry point has been established at all social work centres. There is also a need to establish this point in employment institutions. Education was carried out at single entry points. The Ministry, dislocated units or co-ordinators shall continue to cooperate with the centres and employment institutions. 16 regional mobile units, dislocated units of the Ministry, were established, and 52 employees were employed, of which 48 are social activation coordinators operating in individual regional units, and 4 are employed at the Ministry's headquarters. These are coordination, guidance and guidance. Of course, the key tasks are to identify, manage and guide persons involved in social activation programmes. Jointly with programme operators, outputs for the person involved shall be prepared and supported in the event of early departures or other problems. The coordinator shall work closely with the Centre for Social Work and other stakeholders in the region. The estimated level of funds is around 9.7m euros for 2016 and 2022. As far as the development and maintenance of the information system is concerned, I can say that, of course, information support will also be provided for the effective functioning of the system, which will fully support the implementation of social activation. An online application will be developed which will allow a clear review of the treatment of an individual from the beginning, that is, from entry to completion. The selection of the contractor is already under way, the estimated value of development and maintenance of the application is about half a million euros, we are currently performing a public procurement order for the selection of the contractor to develop this application. The procedure is expected to be completed by the end of November 2018. As regards the development and implementation of quality social activation programmes, a key part of a comprehensive social activation system is the development and implementation of co-financing of these programmes. Operators of social activation programmes shall collect public calls for co-financing. Since 2017, the Ministry has implemented four public calls for the implementation of the programmes and co-financed three or four types of different programmes. These are long programmes, short programmes, short programmes for women coming from other cultures and environments, and programmes for the fourth public tender. All programmes include activities to raise social and functional skills and skills, and long hybrid programmes also include activities to increase working skills. In particular, the programmes carry out activities such as financial reporting, raising computer skills, familiarising ourselves with the procedures and forms we face in everyday life. Part of the activity is dedicated to healthy life, participation in the group, conflict resolution and assertivity training. And to answer your question briefly, we will, of course, continue with these programmes in the future on the basis of evaluations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Commissioner Natasa Sukič, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u123	Thank you so much for once. Madam Minister, however, I would like to add a little more to this question, or I would like to ask you a comment. I am pleased that you intend to continue, I believe that in 2019 with these calls, but of course you should be aware that there is an intermediate, empty space between the completion of the previous project, if I understand correctly, and the beginning of the new contract. There's probably some kind of stop in between or they're running these projects continuously. If there has been a halt, we should be aware of the situation of people involved, working, such as professional leaders, then cultural mediators, mediators and so on. You have been strongly opposed to pre-arrangement of the labour market and employment before the performance, in which case we see that we have this situation of luxury, it is said, some of the project dependencies of someone involved in a project. Then this project will stop, of course there is no payment in that interim period if there is no project. These are very painful situations. On the other hand, perhaps I would like to take the initiative here. If the case lasts until 2022, why not hire these people? This would burden those at the Ministry not to deal so much with the tender documents, on the other hand, NGOs would be burdened by these excruciating, excruciating fulfilments of these tender forms and, of course, would avoid the reprisals of these persons. It might be worth considering how this situation might be resolved in this case. Thank you so much for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mag. Ksenia Klampfer, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u125	Yes, thank you very much for this addition. I absolutely agree and support this proposal you have put forward. We will examine these proposals at the Ministry and we will try these programmes in this way because the final objective of these social activation programmes is just a positive outcome for this person involved and to integrate himself into the labour market as soon as possible. [[…]] In view of the fact that many of them are directly involved in public authorities or public sector bodies, then, of course, to be an example to all others, as you yourself have mentioned, in the spirit of combating leniency. As for the first part, I am not entirely sure whether it will come, I personally think at this point that there will be no interruptions, that these programmes will continue there until 2022. In the event of an accident, I will stand here to see this continuity continue, of course, in order to avoid these people being deprived of funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u126	Thank you very much. The next question to be asked by the Member of Parliament will be Mr Franci Breznik and will be presented to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandri Pivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u127	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Unfortunately, the Minister is not here today, but I will somehow want to explain the purpose of this parliamentary question, which I think appears in several municipalities and many tourist farms across the whole of Slovenia. I was informed last year about the problems of one of our family farms in Styria, exactly in Rožen Grunt in the municipality of Council Ana, which began with tourism on the farm in 1994. Today, unfortunately, after the very successful development of this tourist farm, where it can accommodate up to 60 people and with more than 80% of its own supply of raw materials, it is seriously considering the complete abandonment of this activity. Reason: Irrelevant legislation. Thus, financial legislation, which is linked to the labour market, also forced the farm, through a rigorous approach a few years ago, through the help of advisory services, into registered activities in the form of an economic society. The farm holder registered the farm as a sole entrepreneur. A recent change, then. I have also asked this question in writing in last year's work to Minister Židan, when he was still Minister of Agriculture. Of course, I didn't get an answer, so today I'm resetting it, first of all as an oral one. The recent amendment of the legislation last year, which regulated the area of agriculture, completely turned things upside down, as the same farm was then called upon by the agricultural inspector to abandon or register the activity again, as it was intended to mislead consumers in accordance with Article 66 in conjunction with Article 99(1) of the Agricultural Act. Such an invitation has recently been received by many similar farms in the Republic of Slovenia, so, to my address, we can say, quite a few such tourist farms. In this mandate, in particular, I am President of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. In this regard, I would therefore like to ask the Minister the following questions: Are you familiar with these problems at the Ministry, which have recently been faced by a number of farms in the Republic of Slovenia? How will you, at the Ministry, ensure that existing farms operating in the form of organisation as an independent entrepreneur of the individual they carried out at the time of the last amendment of the legislation will continue to be able to carry out their activities in this form, as before? How should a farm act in a similar situation in order to meet the requirements of labour law, the Financial Administration and agricultural inspection services at the same time? And the following question, therefore, as a third: Will the amendment of the Agriculture Act in 2017 also affect farms that have completed their registration activities in the form of espies before the law is in force? Of course, I thank the Minister for the answers not one of the following meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u128	Thank you very much. You'll get answers at one of the next meetings, I suppose. Now let's move on. The next question will be asked by Mr Jernej Vrtovec, Minister of Justice Andreja Katič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, on 27 April this year, the Act on the Cessation of Procedures against Associates of Deleted Companies entered into force. The Act provides for the termination of all legal proceedings initiated under the Financial Operations Act or the Financial Transactions Act, insolvency proceedings and forcible termination in which creditors of deleted companies apply their claims against the shareholders of such companies or their legal successors. The termination takes until the decision of the European Court of Human Rights in the Lekić v Slovenia case. The law in Article 2, paragraph 1, obliges the courts or other authorities that conduct these proceedings to issue decisions on the termination of proceedings within 30 days of the law's entry into force on an official basis. In Nova Slovenija, however, it is unfortunately noted that only one decision to terminate the procedure was issued within 30 days of the entry into force of the law. All other termination decisions were issued only on the basis of a request, i.e. with a great deal of delay. Many parties under this law have also requested the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia's opinion on the non-implementation of the law. And we are surprised by the answer of the President of the Supreme Court. He proposed that these beneficiaries, as parties to the proceedings, actively cooperate and submit their own proposals to the courts to issue decisions on the termination of proceedings. We do not accept such action in New Slovenia and cannot accept it, so I ask you, Madam Minister: Who will take responsibility for the apparent failure to implement the Law on the Cessation of Procedures against the Associates of Deleted Companies? Why do the courts in charge of these proceedings not act differently, or do they not issue decisions on an official basis in the same way as the law itself does? We know that these procedures are linked to a number of personal bankruptcys or human fates that depend on the decision of the European Court of Human Rights in the Lekić case. Why, therefore, is such a passivity of the courts and the abandonment of the initiative to terminate the proceedings of the parties as the founders or shareholders of the capital companies to which ex-legislation of the obligations of deleted companies has been carried out? Thank you for your answers to my question.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, Andreja Katič, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u131	Dear Vice President! Dear Member, thank you for this question. The Act on the Cessation of Procedures against Stakeholders of Deleted Companies, adopted on 17 April this year, entered into force on 27 April this year, Article 1, provides that all administrative and enforcement procedures shall be initiated under the Financial Operations Act of Companies and the Financial Operations Act of the Insolvency and Forced Operation Procedure, in which creditors or creditors of deleted companies apply claims against shareholders or shareholders of such a company or their legal successors or heirs, which are not yet terminated on the date of the application of this Act, shall terminate. The law therefore provides for a mandatory legal termination of proceedings, while at the same time in the second sentence it provides that the courts shall, within 30 days of the official duty, also issue a decision to terminate the procedure, which is of a declaratory nature only. In view of this, the time of its issuance shall not affect the rights of the shareholders of the deleted company or their legal successors. However, I certainly agree that the hands, even if they are instructional, must be respected. Although the conclusions were not issued within a certain period of time, this does not mean that the law was not implemented. It is essential that the court does not carry out any further proceedings under this law on the termination of proceedings. I must point out that the Supreme Court in the Court of Auditors has also published the information that this law has been published and has further informed the judges that the law has been adopted and entered into force. The role of the Minister or Minister of Justice in relation to the judiciary, in particular as regards the implementation of procedures in specific cases, is limited, you know that. Under Article 125 of the Constitution, judges are independent in the exercise of judicial functions and are bound by the Constitution and the law. I cannot and must not interfere or influence decisions in specific cases by myself or the Ministry of Justice. However, I can also say that, with regard to the implementation of the legislation, the Ministry of Justice receives, among other things, questions from citizens. With regard to this law, we have received a question at the Ministry of Justice concerning the effect of the decision to terminate the proceedings concerning the acts committed in the enforcement procedure, which means that the courts issue such decisions or proceedings in specific cases are terminated. Unfortunately, at the Ministry of Justice, we do not have specific numbers, especially since this law is not within our jurisdiction, we have no decisions to put an end to the proceedings, so we have asked the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia to provide us with this information if it is available to them, and we will also provide them in writing when we receive them. However, as you yourself pointed out in the question, this legal issue is linked to the procedure before the European Court of Human Rights, which is 14. 2. 2017 published the judgment in the Lekić v Slovenije case, in which it found that the Republic of Slovenia has not violated the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and its Protocols. The case is related to the Financial Operations Act and relates to the removal of companies from the Court Register without prior liquidation and to the liability of the shareholders for the debts of the deleted company. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has also previously found the same. The complainant’s complaint is now being addressed by the ECHR’s large Senate, which has also conducted a public hearing in April. The opinion of the Government was rejected by the proposed law, and the position of the Republic of Slovenia in these proceedings is that human rights have not been violated by the complainant. The adoption of this law is thus merely a temporary interference with the rights of creditors, who are also constitutionally and conventionally protected, and can therefore also be the subject of proceedings before these courts. So, if I repeat, the Ministry does not have the data. Once received by the Supreme Court, we will also be able to provide you with this information, how many conclusions have been issued within the deadline and how the cases are now taking place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u133	Not even a request to supplement the answer, but more than an additional comment that I understand the full division of power and the legislative and absolute, but we cannot simply accept that the law is being implemented in a certain segment of one. For this reason, I strongly recommend that you send out the answers that the court will prepare for you as soon as possible, because people are suffering from this failure to enforce the law, easily. And there have been many tragedies in this area in the past. As a rule of law, it is also right to provide legal certainty for people. And that is what we legislators are obliged to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, would you like to respond further? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u135	Yes, thank you. Like I said, as soon as we get it, we'll give you the information. I would point out once again that, as I said, the timing of the decision does not affect the rights of the members of the deleted company and their legal successors, so that they should not be affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Lenart will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Magi. Xenia Klampfer and Minister of Health Sam Fakin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u137	Dear President, the council! In recent times, media records have pointed to some cases of abnormally high hospital benefits. I think it is right if the public reminds us of a particular problem and even more so that we respond to such questions or articles. In 2018, the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia was expected to pay a monthly hospital fee of more than EUR 10 000 gross to eight insured persons. Although the duration of the hospital internship is unlimited in Slovenia, other European countries have restrictions, with the exception of Bulgaria. Most European countries have a one-year limit. We also have an unlimited amount of compensation. While most European countries have the highest remuneration, which is usually twice the average wage in the country. This also helps to avoid possible abuse, and unfortunately that is not the case with us. Concerned is the fact that the highest compensation paid by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance for sick leave last year amounted to EUR 22 000 or EUR 3 and 13 cents less. Of course, the article also points to other dilemmas, especially around a long - term hospital, which probably points to why these procedures are not completed and then become invalid. I am convinced that the disease is intended for the worker, with a view to receiving a decent compensation, and should not be the subject of any kind of abuse. That's why I'm asking you, Your Honor Minister and Minister: Can we expect any action in the future to address this issue meaningfully, as has been done in most European countries? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Given the nature of the question, I suppose I would first like to answer the Minister of Health, Mr Sam Fakin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ambassador, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The patient stock is something that I have been monitoring for practically all my professional career, first as a doctor, then later as a director of health institutions and, of course, as Director of the Health Insurance Institute. This issue has already been overlooked and many times proposed changes in the direction you are pointing, but we have repeatedly faced opposition on one side or on the other, either on the union or on the employer's side. What you are mentioning is 10 000 euros gross, according to the current law, the worker is compensated as a percentage of his gross salary. Let me mention that this is one of the oldest compulsory health insurance rights of over 150 years. Yes, there has been a major problem in the last three years called the long-term hospital stock, which is directly linked to the extension of retirement to 65 years, and of course to the fact that these people have equal treatment within the healthcare system. Some European countries, and in this direction of course we are thinking, have injuries, occupational diseases, injuries at work individually, and for this is one particular fund and these people move faster through the health system than one possible solution. We too have begun to shorten waiting periods on some matters and come, for example, with a magnet, faster to diagnosis. These amounts are huge. And if there were 285 million more in 2016, one year ahead of 240 million, today the 2018 projection is 338 million expenditure. And of course this money is one that could be used to reduce waiting types or to increase the standard of patients employed. This is therefore one of the priorities of the Ministry of Health. We will not be able to do this without inter-resort cooperation. If we reduce the disease stock to one year, we must, of course, ensure adequate social security from here on out. This is one of the political decisions to be made. As far as the hospital stock is concerned, we are not far behind the European average, and about 4 to 5% are moving here. Some countries, including Finland, which have rigorously affected workers' rights, do not pay for the first 7, 10 days of the hospital stock, however, have such a high stock. On the other hand, we have a very developed Netherlands, where the hospital stock pays for up to two years. It's been going on with us since 30 working days. At the moment, we are in negotiations with some professional groups, but here I am thinking mainly of espies and those who would like 16 days of their own burden, and from here on in the burden of solidarity, which, according to grave estimates, means another 70 million euros to this amount, this is in the current context of the financial situation of hospitals, with waiting times and the expectations of trade unions in contrast. This is said to be one of the priorities of the next year, together with the Ministry of Labour, how to get this into one framework that will be manageable, so that we will be able to predict this and that, of course, money will remain in the health service register.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Can you add anything to that, Minister? Ma'am mag. Ksenia Klampfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u141	Thank you for your word and thank you for asking. Of course, the area of hospital benefits is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health, given that the compensations are regulated under the legislation governing health insurance. However, given the fact that social security systems are extremely linked, since the Member also mentions the problem of long-term hospitals, I would point out that I will, by my own initiative, indirectly advocate the reduction of the hospital stock, through better regulation of the disability procedure. Our aim is to enable insured persons with reduced working capacity to exercise disability insurance rights more quickly. In this way, last but not least, long - term hospitals would be cut short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u142	Thank you. Would you like a word to complete the request? Here you go, Mr. Jože Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u143	Thank you very much, both of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u144	Thank you. The next is Joseph Lenart, who will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mags a question. Xenia Clampfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, Madam Minister of Labour. The 2017 report of the Ombudsman identifies irregularities and violations of the rights of disabled workers in private companies and in disabled companies, which also receive State subsidies for the employment of disabled persons. It is particularly inappropriate for some employers to receive state subsidies for the employment of disabled persons and then even fire them. In fact, after the Ombudsman’s summary, the supervision of disabled companies was inadequate and took place or took place too slowly and therefore does not protect enough disabled workers there. Question for the Minister for Labour, Mrs Ksenija: What will you do at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities to ensure adequate working conditions for disabled workers in disabled companies and to prevent them from violating their rights at work and the right to work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mag. Ksenia Klampfer, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u147	Thank you for your word and thank you for asking. The Ombudsman recommends in the 2017 report that the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act should be amended to make the disability benefit in proportion to the number of hours worked, i.e. if the hours spent are more than or less than 100 hours. In addition, to mention, persons who are reimbursed for the cost of lunch in the context of work rehabilitation in the workplace or in the chosen profession. A person with disabilities who is trained in a specific position in a specific employer in a local environment for at least 100 hours during the duration of the work rehabilitation period and who is not receiving a cash refund or cash assistance under the rules of the rights of unemployed persons or a financial compensation under the rules of disability insurance shall be entitled to a cash amount of 40 % of the minimum monthly wage. During training, disabled persons do not work 8 hours a day because they are trained by mentors employed by their employer. The Ministry pays the costs of mentoring an employer of €80 per month for an individual disabled person, and during the training period they are also treated simultaneously by the professional team members of the worker’s occupational rehabilitation team, which he referred to for training. The costs of members of the expert team shall also be borne by the Ministry. The aim of the training is to ensure that the disabled person is employed as quickly as possible and acquires adequate knowledge and working conditions during training. If the remuneration for employment rehabilitation were too high, this could have a negative impact on the stimulation of the disabled in order to get a job as soon as possible, as well as on the employer in which he is trained. Other employment rehabilitation services represent professional treatment of persons with disabilities, such as examination of medical documentation, interviews with persons with disabilities, identification of the employment interests of persons with disabilities and testing. However, the Ombudsman's recommendation will be taken into account in the initial preparation of the novel Law on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Disability companies are ordinary companies that operate on the market and are subject to all the rules, as is the case with all other employers. From the point of view of labour law, the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia therefore exercises control over them for work. This inspectorate exercises regular supervision over these companies, and occasionally carries out more extensive actions in which it reviews a large number of these companies throughout Slovenia. Disability companies are of particular social importance because they employ the most difficult disabled people. As a result, in order to align their market situation with other employers who do not employ the highest proportion of the most severely disabled, state aid recipients are. The supervision of the use of these public funds received for the employment of persons with disabilities shall be carried out by the Ministry in the form of a regular monthly report on the funds received in the form of a mandatory audit of the earmarked expenditure incurred by companies established in accordance with the law governing the audit and supervision carried out by the professional commission established for this purpose in accordance with the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act. The efficiency and regularity of the implementation of this State aid scheme, which are disabled companies, is also regularly monitored by the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u148	Thank you. We're moving on. The next one will raise the question of the MEP. Bojana Muršič, Minister of Culture Dejan Prešič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u149	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Minister, respectable minister! I ask the Minister of Culture, the 100th anniversary of important historical events for our people is approaching, and the country, which is headed by General and poet Rudolf Maister. We've been celebrating everything since 2005, and we have a state holiday on November 23rd, but it's not a day off. It's a wonderful day that's happened on the 23rd. 11. 1918, when Rudolf Maister disarmed the German security guard with his army and thus established the Slovenian northern border and liberated the city of Maribor. Since 1998, the University Library of Maribor has been owned by the Maistra Library since signing a gift contract with the heirs of General Maistra. 5 thousand 945 units of library material form a special collection, separated from the regular library fund and stored in a specially designed space for it. The construction of the material of this Master Library was also redesigned in 2013. This material had to be recognized and properly identified, protected and preserved as the basis of our common identity in our historical consciousness and national identity. After almost 20 years of efforts, the Ministry of Culture recognized what we saw in the media on Friday, following the announcement of my parliamentary question, which it adopted at the letter meeting. Of course, I express my thanks to the Ministry of Culture in this place for the expressed trust and protection of this common identity, and this has been placed on the i as they say. In view of the fact that the Ministry has a hearing for the preservation of cultural heritage and library material, I expect that such behaviour will also be at the central library on the Rotov Square in Maribor. For 10 years, it has been pointing to unsustainable conditions, lack of space, unbearable tightness, and the safety of employees and users is also at risk. In recent years, even the Rothov library has been forced to withdraw much of its library material to the warehouse. Although this, as the minister will say, is contrary to the professional points of reference. Since you respect all these values, I am interested in: What is your position on the Maribor Library? Can Maribor, with a wider environment, expect any assistance from the competent ministry in the form of assistance in obtaining European funds, to provide part of the resources in the budget? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Dejan Prešiček, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u151	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Thank you so much for asking. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! I am also very pleased that it was possible, although there was no question, but that we were finally able to arrange within the professional services that the Maistrov Library is, as one with great symbolic power, even after the material itself, because it has almost all the important works of Slovenian authors and an extraordinary collection of periods from the 19th and first half of the 20th century that we can give it the value it deserves. And here I would also like to thank the Members who have given these initiatives and who have insisted that this has finally happened. Now for the question. About the central library in Maribor. I was alone as a minister twice in Maribor, and I looked at the location, so the location where the library is now. I must say that the location of the library and the situation in which the library is located, both for the library and for the workers themselves, is unsustainable. And in fact, by all the rules, some inspections, we should also close the library. So the situation as it is can't go on like that anymore. I hope that after the second round of local elections, when the government is established and the new mayor in Maribor swears that we will be in dialogue with the ministry – the ministry has already been in the past years, my predecessors have in fact announced possible solutions. I must say that even if we look at the history of the Maribor Library, some of the money from the budget was already provided for editing the library, but it was not easy by the municipality and the mayor at the time, because it was an agreement for half the money to be provided by the municipality and the other half by the Ministry. At that time this was approved by the Ministry and we also had this money at our disposal, but unfortunately this project has not been implemented. As I understand the situation, they don't even know exactly where the library is. So which one of these projects is supposed to be implemented. However, as Minister, I can promise that the situation as it is cannot continue and that it must be resolved and that the ministry will, both through funds within the Ministry and through the use of European funds, help to achieve this. During this time, in these two months, I have looked at several libraries and I think Maribor is the second largest city as a very cultural city to deserve a modern library. I'm definitely going to stand up for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec, the next Member to raise the question of the Member of Parliament, will present it to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandri Pivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u153	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! The Minister is absent today, but I'm asking her a question that I'm asking her to answer in writing, and then we may continue the conversation if necessary at the next meeting. I'm gonna ask you a question about animal welfare. In fact, we know that the relationship between humans and animals is still instrumental, and we view them as an object, as a means, as a food. Each year more than 60 billion have been slaughtered for human consumption in the world. We are in Slovenia in view of the consumption of meat per capita at the summit among world countries, including European countries. Many countries, organisations are already taking action against this. For many years, the United Nations has called on countries to take measures to reduce meat consumption. Just today, I read that in Canada they launched 150 million products for the production of plant alternatives to meat proteins. Many other countries are working on this, such as protecting animals in a legal sense, protecting their welfare and protecting them from human abuse. Even in the coalition contract of this government, the Head of Animal Welfare also agreed to the initiative of the Left. I'm starting here with a question to the Minister, which is, I'm interested in: When and how will it begin to implement the following measures defined in the Coalition Treaty: firstly, to provide adequate human and financial resources to supervisory authorities concerned with the implementation of animal protection laws and regulations, secondly, to allocate adequate resources to animal protection shelters, thirdly, adequate support and education for children and adults on the importance of health, nutrition and the negative effects of over-consuming meat, fourthly, the prohibition of battery farming and the adoption of regulations to improve living conditions in the barn and the promotion of free, fifthly, the prohibition of primate and other trials with comparable levels of self-awareness, sixthly, regulation of the transport of live animals and the establishment of higher standards, seventhly, regulation of standards for the sale of live animals in trade? These are questions concerning the provisions of the Coalition Treaty. And I'm also interested in: When will he come to the National Assembly of the Animal Protection Act, which was prepared and adopted by the previous government at a government meeting at the end of 2017, and then, unfortunately, never reached the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec will ask the Minister of Infrastructure an oral question. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u155	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we all have a nice greeting! Since I am not the first term in this National Assembly, I can say that I have been monitoring the area of local self-government for six, seven years. Here's a very interesting story. When the so-called second Janšev government came to power, when we saw that European funds were being drained somehow, the Minister of Infrastructure, namely one of your predecessors, Mr Zvone Cernač, who made the overnight call, was worth more than EUR 50 million; this call went for energy renewal of buildings owned by local communities. Dear Minister, since last night was over, at least in the first round, local elections and mayors, new or old, are already looking forward to new projects, probably everyone is looking forward to working together with all the ministers most probably right with you. Dear Minister, I am interested in some numbers, given the publication of this year's February, when a call for the co-financing of energy renovations of buildings owned and used by municipalities was launched in 2018-2020. For the first deadline for the submission of applications in accordance with the instructions provided in the tender documentation was March, second April, third May and the deadline of 12 November this year. Ladies and gentlemen, at this moment, I am interested in: Are there any information on how many applications for these invitations were made by the municipalities and how many were approved? Are you assuming that we have a lot of European resources at our disposal, which we obviously do not know how to draw up, that you may also make a new call for 2018, 2019 and 2020 in the coming year? And thirdly, what is the wish of all the mayors of Slovenian municipalities, is it possible that, through these European funds or through this public invitation to tender, firehouses could also be repaired in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mag. Alenka Bratusek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u157	Thank you very much and thank you for the question, honourable Member. I am also aware that drawing on European funds is very important. Even in 2013-2014, alone or in the government, we have made great efforts to do wonders that in the end we have absorbed the previous financial perspective in its entirety. And I am very much in favour of the energy rehabilitation project, and I would like to see as many resources spent and spent on this matter as possible. And I also wish to cooperate as much as possible with all Slovenian mayors, and I am aware that it is probably right in the field of the Ministry of Infrastructure for the most projects which are very operationally linked to the municipalities. Now for some information. However, if I do not have specific information for purely specific tenders, we can probably agree to provide them in writing. The European Cohesion Policy funds for the 2014-2020 programming period are allocated to this comprehensive energy renovation under the call for proposals. We want this money to be spent as efficiently as possible, together with energy efficiency measures on the building's edge, that is, the facade, the roof and the floor, and those on the building's technical systems, such as heating, ventilation, air conditioning, hot water preparation, because we think this would be the most economically justified. In this financial perspective, the Ministry of Infrastructure has published three public calls for co-financing of energy renovations in the ownership and use of municipalities since 2016. As part of these calls, 40 operations have so far been selected as eligible for co-financing, representing a total of around 335 thousand square metres of net floor area of municipal buildings, amounting to a total of around 24 million. The applications received for this year's invitation to tender are still under consideration and this information will change by the end of the year. I would also like to finance the same or similar projects in the next financial perspective because of the environmental objectives that we have set together. However, there is some agreement or commitment by these governments to examine thoroughly where the backlogs can happen so large that European funds are at risk in this financial perspective. And if we find that out, of course we will also propose appropriate amendments to the acts. However, we must be aware that these amendments to the acts, in particular those for which we must ask the European Commission for its consent, are very long-lasting. We need to be careful about these changes here. So much for a start.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The next oral question is the question of the Member of the Magi. Marko Pogačnik, who will be pawned by Dr. Andre Bertontzl to the Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u159	Mr President, thank you for your floor. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance hereafter, who is absent today. I propose that the Minister of Finance answer my question in writing. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance: What will be the fiscal policy of the current government in the future in the field of oil derivatives? I personally believe that the excise policy implemented by the previous government is inadequate. The fact is that the price of a litre of oil in Austria is significantly cheaper than in Slovenia. Austria has an open market for price formation. And according to today's information and data, the cheapest litre of oil is today in Austria – 1.18 euros. In Slovenia today this price is significantly higher than about 20 cents per litre. On the other hand, the same applies to the heating oil that the price in Celovac for a thousand litres of heating oil is about 200 euros more favourable than if the heating oil is purchased in Ljubljana, Murski Sobota, Škofja Loki, Kranju or Maribor. That is why I ask the Minister: Does such a excise policy seem appropriate to him or not? I am convinced that by the way of excise policy implemented by the previous government, Slovenia loses its competitiveness, it loses its Slovenian economy. On the other hand, they also lose citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who have significantly higher costs than, for example, citizens and citizens in neighbouring Austria. I am also of the opinion that excise policy is not appropriate and neither is pricing of oil derivatives. We know that in the previous government and in the previous government, huge profits have been made in the formation of petrol, oil and fuel prices. I want to know: What excise policy in the field of oil derivatives will the current government formulate? What will be my opinion on this issue by the Minister of Finance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Ambassador Boris Doblekar will ask the Minister of Infrastructure mags a question. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u161	Dear Vice-President, Madam Secretary, everyone else is present, and a lovely greeting from me as well! I would like to touch the state of state roads on this matter. In general, I would say that the state of state roads is not what users would like. Of course, there are also reasons for this: the lack of financial resources and perhaps the sense that more would be invested in such important infrastructure as roads. More or less in road maintenance, holes and shorter, most damaged sections are patched up; however, because of the intensity of such work, new and new sections appear so quickly that there is no way to do anything. There are also some new sections overcoated, which is encouraging, but still. Maybe I'd ask the minister a few questions if she could answer them. I want to know: How much investment has been made on state roads this year; how much money has been spent so far this year? Is there a traffic jam in Slovenia at the moment? And if there's been any beginning of this carousel, I wonder how long they've been waiting for it? Was the idea plan of this carousel designed before the original plan of Hotič, which I will also touch a little bit more closely? The question is whether and when the state will take up the construction of the railway in Hotič, I am talking about Lower and Upper Hotic. A very problematic state road, which is very narrow; and at 8, 9,000 vehicles per day this road is very difficult to transport, there are safety pedestrians, there are also farms, there is a intersection, there is no bus station, children have to take the bus once on one side, on the other. I think it's about time we started doing a little more business with this carousel. I want to know: How far are we with this project? Whether there will be a crossroads or a crossroads in Lower Hotič, which was also an initiative of a civil initiative. Thank you very much for your answer in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mag. Alenka Bratušek, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u163	Thank you very much. With your introductory observations that the situation on state roads is not what you would like it to be, I absolutely agree. I also agree with your finding that the reason for the past, including the crisis, the money for transport infrastructure, whether railways or roads, is too little. It must be fair to say that the situation has changed significantly over the past two years and that our coalition commitment, the commitment of this coalition and the government is also a commitment that transport infrastructure resources will not be reduced in relation to 2018. I very much wish that we would all read this coalition commitment in the same way and that the funds would indeed remain at this level. With concrete numbers, how much money, because I am the person who likes to be precise, I will serve you later; more than 200 million euros. And also as to the number of investments started, we have data because that is exactly what I wanted to monitor when I came to the Ministry, and I will absolutely give you these two figures. In the last college, however, the director of the Directorate said that in 2018 the realisation on road infrastructure would be historically high. I'm happy about this; I wish I wasn't historically tall, because that means she'll never be like that again. The assessment is that if we keep the same dynamics as in 2018 when we talk about heights, in about five, six years we will bring our state roads to a normal level so that they will also be safe. The traffic around Murska Sobota has just been opened, but even within the money that we will have at our disposal, it is one of our priorities, because we are aware that this will make cities very burdensome. There's traffic around the city, there's one at Ptuj, and there's another around Murska Sobota, and there's a few more that could be listed. As for the specific area of Hotič, however, I can say that a state spatial plan is being drawn up at this time. The guidelines of the space regulators were obtained in 2009 and an analysis of the guidelines was also developed in 2009. On the basis of this analysis of the situation in the space and analysis of the guidelines of the space regulators, variant 2a is shown as the most appropriate option for further processing. In 2007, project tasks were developed and validated and tendering and signed contracts for hydrological and hydraulic analysis, environmental report production, pre-investment design variant study and design design were carried out. In 2018, a study of pre-investment variants, an ideal design and hydrological-hydraulic analysis was developed with a flood and erosion hazard study. In June 2018, the above-mentioned study was publicised. The comments received and the proposals were prepared for comments. These views were also expressed at the end of August 2018, under the previous government, signed and mediated further. Coordination is currently under way to obtain a positive opinion concerning the environmental report and the pre-investment design.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I listened attentively to the answer, however; if we took time to explain it further. Indeed, this matter is very problematic, you probably know that if you have looked at it, the penalties are also paid by truck drivers, drivers and even pedestrians who walk there on the road; and then we do not know who is threatening whom. Life is at stake, it's really a big problem, but I would still ask you for a clearer answer. Will this railway that you are planning now take place all along the Sava River, along the entire route, along the Upper and Lower Hotch; and then join the main road to avoid the complete Hotch? Is it still an option that the road across the Lower Hotch will take place in the same form as before? Then about the intersection or the circle; we know that the project for the intersection has already been developed and the money has been approved. What's going to happen to this money now? Why are the works standing? Why don't the work begin? How do you work with the Ministry of Environment and Space? I have already spoken to the Minister, including at the hearings, and he has promised to make sure that, despite Natura 2000 and various other factors, he will make sure that an appropriate solution will be reached in cooperation with your Ministry and that the siege will be carried over the two settlements of Zgornji and Lower Hotič. I'm interested in this cooperation between yours and the Ministry of Environment and Space. And really more specifically, if you can name a timer. When, in particular, could this work begin? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mag. Alenka Bratušek, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u167	As for the first part of the question, frankly, I don't know the project in such detail that I can tell you – a intersection or a circle. I am committed to giving you, in addition to those two financial data, a precise description of what route 2a means. As far as cooperation with the Ministry of Environment and Space is concerned. I think the minister and I have worked more than well together so far. Its great advantage is that the Secretary of State was previously at the same Ministry and very carefully and very precisely knows the problems. However, it is a fact that putting one of the bigger ones into space – I hope that it will not be misunderstood if I say problems – but a time barrier to certain major projects in our country, especially in the field of transport infrastructure, is not carried out more quickly. I am not a proponent of not having to follow all the standards, but it may be possible, especially at the Ministry of Environment and Space, to see whether certain steps can be taken more quickly. So far, I have no reason not to believe that Minister Leben has such desires and purposes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr Doblekar, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I must say, with what you've said, I am pleased. I would also like to thank you in advance for the written answers to the specific questions you will be submitting. Perhaps it will be what will only encourage all those responsible to take seriously together this very pressing problem of Hotič. Since this problem has been so pressing for so many and so many years; so many and so many warnings on the part of the living landscapes and all those on this road that we also drive every day, as well as the municipalities that have tried, among other things, to achieve this goal as soon as possible, these envelopes, despite the fact that I have received answers and that I am still expecting them in writing, I would suggest a discussion on this issue – the Hotič province at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The following will raise an oral question from Member Igor Peček to the Minister of Infrastructure mag. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! It has been quite a while since the government's decision to set up the Systemic Operator of the Distribution Network was taken; we know it better under the name SODO, so I will continue to use that name if you allow it. With the establishment the company became a distribution operator and the owners of the energy infrastructure remained distribution companies with regional distribution such as Elektro Gorenjska, Elektro Primorska, Ljubljana, Celje, Elektro Maribor. And these companies, as far as I am aware, have not already taken this decision to establish the SODA with great enthusiasm at the time, nor are they fully in agreement with it today. The distribution energy system is now operating in such a way that the system operator assigns tasks and determines certain activities. The distribution companies charge the network to the final customers and then the payments point back to the SODO. On the other hand, if I can use this word or use the energy infrastructure, the SODO pays these companies rent. Concessions could also be awarded directly to distributors. These companies are more entangled in local environments, and I think they know better the problem of local communities, they are likely to act more quickly in some emergency situations, such as windshields, glands or power grid failures. And as far as I know, this is not even contrary to the European Directive. That's why, Madam Secretary, I'm asking you here: Does that seem appropriate to you? Where are the advantages of one regime or another? Are you planning any changes in this area? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mag. Alenka Bratušek, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Member of the Commission, thank you for this question as well. To tell you the truth, I also asked myself, when I took office, whether we need so many different institutions in the field of energy. Sometimes I feel that whenever a step has to be taken, we have set up a new institution in our country rather than see what the existing institutions might do with a few changes. At the outset, I would like to say that the security of supply in our country is important to me and that many people estimate that it is better than many others, even in Europe. However, I do not agree with you that a different organisation would allow for faster action in the event of natural disasters. If I simplify, I think action is always at the level of the local institution, no matter what the head is, if I may say so, somewhere else. This solution dates back to 2007. I will also say the reason for setting up or such a way. In order to grant the concession directly to the electricity distribution companies, these companies should be free of market activities and in the country's 100% ownership. So they say it's in the European directives. Two opinions or two audits of the Court of Auditors have also been carried out on this subject. The former and other government of the Court of Auditors replied that they would see how this could be done. Moreover, even SDH as a manager has already received some tasks in this regard. You asked me what my view was. My personal view is, of course, that the conditions must be met that they will also be in line with European rules, because we are part of a European family and are not going through this; and when these conditions are met, I wish there were as few intermediaries as possible, because I am sure that this would ultimately be the most expensive for the user. Within the coalitions of this conversation, we haven't even started a deal yet, let alone finished and finished. However, I am pleased with your questions, and in some ways I also feel support in solving this problem in a way that even in our country we begin to abolish some institutions that may not be most necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u174	Thank you. Would you like to ask a further question, Mr Igor Peček? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u175	Thank you very much again. We both agreed on the part that probably seems most important to everyone. If intermediaries appear in the chain, then, you know, for the end user, the maximum cost. The only thing I would ask you, Madam Minister, is if you can check whether the European Directive really states that companies must be 100 per cent owned by the country; I am satisfied with the other explanations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u177	This test will certainly be done. I am also interested because we are in 2013, 2014, because it has been said that this is one of the European directives, even in the Energy Act that was written, remains as it is. There's no way at this point that things would be done without this middleman. I'm going to check personally to see if the directive really says what they're saying.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic will ask the Minister of Public Administration an oral question to Mr Rudi Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u179	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary! My parliamentary question concerns the Public Procurement Act. Many anomalies are happening and I will give you an example of the practice we have in the Municipality of Gorenje Vas – Poljane, where we build a sports hall. Of course, various applications for this invitation came in. We've chosen the cheapest bidder. Why? Because we just didn't want to risk complaining. We have been hunting for the financial resources of the Eco Fund. The sports hall along with the surrounding area and everyone, the investment of just under 4 million euros, reported and selected a company that does not have one shop, has no shovel, has no one van, in short nothing. This is some engineering firm looking for subcontractors next door. Place a fictitious price on the invitation to tender to come in and then do not get subcontractors for this price, then prices are higher, it comes to not paying them, subcontractors leave the site, they are simply gone. The law fixed something so that the contracting entity can also pay the subcontractor directly, but then such a company will set up another engineering company, which is essentially its subcontractor; and you can't pay the subcontractor anymore. This is where we turn in a vicious circle. My question is, Mr. Minister: Do you intend or plan to change this law so that it will no longer happen? We built the hall, the end of the year will be opening, but there was a great deal of bad will, blackmail, even by certain people who thought they would carry the mayor and the municipality around. Finally, there was a matter in these frameworks, but there were serious problems. I believe it is not a lonely case that other cases are like this. What are you going to do to make sure that there's no one to sign up for some engineering company that practically has no one to do such a project, because then there's trouble with subcontractors to get them, how they get paid and so on? But we know that the answer will be the way it was at the hearing – because you do not have to choose the cheapest. Yes, of course it does not have to be, but we are risking complaints, as I said before; we are hunting for hands, by which time the matter must be built if we are to obtain funds, in this case the Eco Fund. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Minister Rudi Medved, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u181	Dear Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Mr Member, the answer will be a little different than the hearing, but I know about this case of yours and I am absolutely sure that it is not a lonely case in Slovenia, as you can see. Although it is true that in the last two and a half years, since the latest Public Procurement Act has been in force, this is the so-called ZJN-3, the Ministry of Public Administration itself by the municipalities or other contracting authorities has not been informed of how many such drastic criticisms have been brought about by the Public Procurement Act. This case, mentioned earlier, shows that we cannot be blinded to such problems on the ground. However, I do not want to teach those who are preparing tenders or subscribers how to do so, but it is true that much of what you listed in your case could be avoided by a quality public invitation to tender. The problem is that, when it comes to three-, four- or multi-million-dollar investments, contracting entities save where they cost at least compared to the size of the investment. For example, when it comes to public tendering, it is right that the invitation to tender is indeed addressed to qualified persons; in this case, for example, it could already be achieved that the company applying for the invitation to tender would have certain references. In the invitation to tender, it is possible to require that a certain part of the company that will later receive a business in the tender only makes sure that it has an appropriate mechanism for it to have workers as well; and it would also be possible to indicate here what the tender would be able to handle in this case. But your question of origin was a broader problem of public procurement, three, four core points that had been crystallized since the adoption of the Public Procurement Act, so-called ZJN-3, three years ago, when a rather gallant debate was introduced in the public and also in politics, and it pointed out the problems of paying subcontractors. This area is now somewhat different and, of course, it will have to be verified that this area is now well regulated. Two European Directives did not require individual Member States not to impose compulsory payments on subcontractors. That's one problem. Lowest price problem, problem of dumped prices and problem of so-called engineering companies. I have recently met with the management of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and on a number of what your question is talking about, the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise have warned me. And we are going to take this very seriously. Two-and-a-half years is the period when they show up in practice in the implementation of a certain law of anomaly or harmful consequences. In this case, we will examine them through a debate covering the economy, politics and local communities. In terms of good legislation in this country, the law will be rectified if it does so. At this point, however, we do not have more detailed information at the Ministry on the dimensions of these problems that you are talking about, honourable Member, and what damage these arrangements have caused to the economy or local communities or to the contracting authorities.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u182	Mr Mahnic, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u183	Thank you, Vice President. That's not the only problem. You mentioned the last amendment to the Public Procurement Act. The effectiveness of the negotiation procedure is also a problem. We know what's going on. First of all, they don't have to make offers yet, but they just have to check their skills. Again, an example from the Poljanska Valley; for the reconstruction of one infrastructure, three performers applied, the municipality tested the qualifications. One of them, of course, forgot to give it up and then two of them — once they get to know each other because they know what they are — can agree on the price. And it's made that a project that has some design price, that they both made an offer that was 20% more expensive than, say, the price of a project that was comparable to 70 and 80 percent. That's how they split the deal, and I think nice commissions come along. The other issue is credit ratings. The municipality simply requires some credit rating and then the e-portal hears complaints. For this reason, it is a practice of the State Audit Commission to attach to the tenderer, in the event of a complaint of an excessive rating, because they say that the rating is disproportionate to the parts or complexity and scope of the public procurement. And then we go back to those things. Mr. Minister: Can we expect to somehow limit engineering to companies that do not have their own resources in the application law? I think it would also be elegantly resolved by automatically excluding the most expensive and the cheapest to calculate some average, and then negotiating with others about the 30 percent that are around the average.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u184	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I am not really an expert in writing legislation, not the Public Procurement Act; but all these anomalys that exist and will show up in this debate on the implementation of this law are all on the table. It is only in this case that the law should be opened and these things regulated. Is it possible, in some way, to just shut down the engineering company? Probably not. Practice doesn't show that now all engineering companies would be the kind of performers you're talking about. I know a few examples of good engineering companies that have also done excellent projects; but maybe they really didn't have any employees or no machines of their own. Everything depends on the honest intentions of the individual company. But there was a lot going on. I have had quite a few practices with public contracts in the past, and I have experienced both. That is why I say that we will open a reliable law, relatively soon, and then the bad examples of practice and good cases will be taken into account that the law is being corrected. Clearly, though, according to the information we have primarily from the contractors, not so much by the contracting authorities, the congregation or other contracting authorities have not complained about the very contents of the law so far; we hear from the contractors that there are problems. When we sit together at the table and begin to discuss the urgency of change, we will, of course, also make them. No law is written so well that it could not be written even better. However, I have read a little history of the adoption of this law; many criticisms were made by the opposition and also by the economy, especially crafts and entrepreneurship, at the time of acceptance. I think it is right to open after two and a half years of marriage and to verify that these fears, which were expressed at the time of the adoption of the law, appear; and to amend the law accordingly. The answer of the Minister of Public Administration is certainly to open the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr Mahnic, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u187	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm gonna use this up a little bit, I'm not gonna ask for a debate, I'm just trying to fix myself up because I don't want to be misunderstood. Mr. Minister, I didn't think they would restrict the law or ban the call for engineering to companies, but only engineering to companies that have acquired their references by exploiting subcontractors and don't have their own resources. So much so that I won't have anything to do with it if I want to ban engineering from companies to run for office. Far from it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u188	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Aleksander Reberšek has the floor to ask the Minister of Infrastructure mag. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u189	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Madam Secretary! It appears that in this mandate we will continue to discuss the construction of the northern part of the third development axis, which, in particular for the inhabitants of Koroška, represents a vital transport link and a link to the A1 motorway. Let me just repeat the most important facts. We await the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia on the assessment of the legality of the State spatial plan in the work relating to the envisaged route of the F2-2 fast road between Šentrupert and Velenje south. For this part in Nova Slovenije in 2016, before the decision on the course of the route, we requested an urgent meeting, where we noted the inadmissibility of the F2-2 route. The F2-2 route is longer and more expensive than 188 million euros. In order to accommodate the F2-2 route, two water catchment areas in Šmartne ob Paka had to be discontinued and the route would reach the water protection area of Podvin. A fast road would destroy 120 hectares of the best land, of which 54 hectares of agricultural land. The F6 route destroys only 13 hectares of worse ground. It would destroy irrigation systems, demolish 43 homes, together 147 facilities, which means the relocation and relocation of 150 residents on route F2-2. The price for the implementation of EUR 308 million does not take into account the compensation for the solutions. I don't know if you're aware, but these are the numbers that matter because people are behind them. I defend the F6 route from Velenje to Arje village; it is shorter, cheaper, protects the best agricultural land and irrigation areas, avoids water protection areas, has no demanding facilities on the route, viaducts and tunnels. The F6 route is more efficient. The negative consequences of setting up a fast road for the environment and people within the existing transport corridor are much smaller. These are critical findings of experts indicating that the confirmed F2-2 route is poor and has been selected on the basis of a weak and inconsistent study. Most of the points obtained from this option are the integration of production activities and the integration of major urban centres, although there are virtually no production areas in Braslovč and the route does not link the regional centres in any way. The construction of a fast road in this area is extremely important for the inhabitants there. We probably all agree that we need it now. It is needed by people, as well as by the economy. Regardless of the decision of the Constitutional Court, which we are awaiting for the most problematic northern part, I am interested in: What will you do to prevent the construction of a fast road from causing more damage to the places and their inhabitants on that part of the route? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Dear Member, we have been talking about this subject or this story, but I understand that this is also the case. The third development axis is also an absolute priority for these governments and these coalitions, because you have waited too long for people in that end of Slovenia to get to the proper transport infrastructure. The northern part of the northern part, if we can divide it into 2 parts, all activities are being accelerated, the land is already being bought, certain geological research is already under way. And I'm going to watch these things run in the field on Thursday afternoon. As far as southern work is concerned, the decision is in the Constitutional Court. It is my opinion, which I have already expressed at the hearing, not only on this project, but also on major or major projects – if every new minister or minister and every new government were to change things, then we would, or even for the third development axis, wait another 20, 30, 40 or maybe even 100 years. The decision was made on certain, I believe, professional assumptions. The Constitutional Court will decide whether this is the case; whether this is not the case; whether any step in the whole proceedings may have diminished. However, I would personally find it very irresponsible to start changing the professional decisions that have been made in the past. And so it is in our country that virtually every major project strikes at a civil initiative, because people are who we are. We want all the acquisitions of civilization, all the priorities that development brings; but at the same time we want to live in a green, unspoiled nature. My answer is that we will wait for the decision of the Constitutional Court as regards the southern part of the development axis; and, depending on the decision, we will turn one way or another. However, the experts at the Ministry assure me that the possibility that the Constitutional Court would completely abolish this route should not be. Should this case be the absolute priority of the Constitutional Court, I would sincerely like to see this taken into their hands as soon as possible if it is an absolute priority; the small proposal is already waiting. Once we know how and what, we'll just drive things along. Once again, I guarantee that this transport link is indeed the priority of our ministry, this government and these coalitions.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Here, you have the floor for the request.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u193	Dear Minister, for those of us who live there, everything is clear, absolutely clear. And if one of the Members has a wish, I like to take him to see the two routes that are available, and then he will actually notice and see the difference. Otherwise, I ask: Why is this F2-2 route imposed on citizens and we cannot choose by another option, cheaper, F6? In a study favouring F2-2, the agricultural land factor was not taken into account. Can you imagine?Oh, my God! At the same time, they reduced the number of jobs in Celje, from the real 24 000 to 14 000, which, for two points, overhanged the scale in favour of the F2-2 route. I submit that this study is misleading and ask who will take personal responsibility if the Constitutional Court finds that the VAT is illegal for this route. To finally resolve these doubts, I expect you to do a new study where key new data will be used and, of course, true; and take into account the agricultural land factor that is not taken into account in the previous 2007 study. The same was found in 2011 by the established government inter-ministerial expert group. It was found that incorrect data were used, that the most important factor of agricultural land was not taken into account, that this route of F2-2 would cause much more damage if there were no real traffic flows. The fast road should be made after the existing connection, it is called F6. This was a recommendation from the government interdepartmental group. Then there was political pressure, and there was nothing more to hear from this address. I wonder who the more expensive route will benefit. I'm sure the inhabitants of our beautiful valley will not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u195	What else can I say here? That I was not a minister when this route was chosen. When it was determined, it is known when it was chosen. Again, I would like to point out that there would probably be a civil initiative on that other route and someone would convince me, just as you are now convincing me. Politicians in this segment of another, rather than resorting to certain decisions of the profession, we cannot. I do not allow myself to judge which one is better; but I am aware that every such intervention is a great intervention into the space, of course it interferes with the lives of people. Therefore, I also understand people who are organised in civil initiatives, but they need to be further clarified. Now the matter has been brought so far and, as I said, at the Ministry, we will wait for a decision on what the Constitutional Court will say. If he cancels the whole thing, those who accept it will have to ask themselves whether they are and how they are responsible for it. But it won't do us much good to build it. My wish and my goal is to get people from that end to Ljubljana as soon as possible, as most of our citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Here you go. You probably have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I'd get a little attached to what you just said. Savina Valley as such doesn't need a highway, we have a highway. He needs Koroška on the fast road. They're the reason we're here. Koroška needs this road. But the numbers are important because people are behind the numbers. And if on one side the F6 route destroys three houses, three; and on the other side destroy 43 houses, 147 buildings, one seriously wonders who is right here. But it's not just buildings. 150 people will take the route if F2-2 is chosen, move, move. Is that what you imagine?Oh, my God! The symbol of Savina Valley will be destroyed. Mount Oljka will be dismantled in the southwest, cut straight down, destroyed 54 hectares of the best agricultural land. We talk so much about some self-sustainment and everything, but in the end we will destroy the best agricultural land. I'm the one who looked into the matter in the field. I also met a lady. I couldn't do anything like just hug her, she got sick, even because of that road, she had cancer. And when I've talked to these people, it's not nice, believe me. Let's work for the people, move this road onto Route F6. I would suggest, however, that a discussion be held at the next meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Only Bevk has the floor to ask the Minister of Infrastructure mags a question. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u199	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The question of completion of the strategic transport documents relating to the fourth development axis shall be addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure of Magi. Alenko Bratusek. In the previous term, the Government and the National Assembly adopted two key strategic documents relating to transport policy in the Republic of Slovenia by 2030. Here I am referring to the Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia adopted by the Government at its meeting on 29 July 2015; and to the Resolution on the National Transport Development Programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period until 2030, adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 22 November 2016. Both documents relate to the fourth development axis, contrary to the 2004 Slovenia Spatial Development Strategy and the 2006 Resolution on Transport Policy of the Republic of Slovenia. Both documents define the fourth development axis as a link in the form of the letter Y from Vidma in Italy via Tolmin to Želen, Church and Škofje Loka, and forward to Domžal; and from Želen via Idrija, Logatca to the highway cross. At the outset of the said 2015-2016 strategic document, the fourth development axis is dealt with inadequacy or without the so-called Idrian-logological leg of the fourth development axis from Želen to Idrija to Logatc, where the road connects to the highway cross. Madam Minister, I ask you: At the Ministry of Infrastructure or at the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, will you prepare changes to both strategic documents in the field of transport policy, which will also include the Idrija-logic leg of the fourth development axis; or will you prepare a timetable, projects and provide funds for the modernisation of the Idrian-logological leg of the fourth development axis from Želenjan via Idrija to Logatec or the highway cross, following the example of reconstruction currently taking place on the Želen– Bridge in Soča? Madam Minister, I thank you very much in advance for your reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u201	The documents listed are currently valid and with the old ones – they can be different but difficult to contradict; both the resolution and the Transport Development Strategy by 2030 and another document, a little more concrete, is a six-year so-called road map for transport infrastructure. It is difficult to say in concrete terms whether I would suggest that exactly such a concrete project be complemented. In two months of work, I have not yet been able to get to know all the projects completely, but I can say that on this project the fourth development of the axis – although if I have understood the question correctly, you do not like the route that is defined as the fourth development axis – certain things happen accelerated. I don't know if it's necessary for me to quote here, which, because I believe you're significantly better acquainted with them than I am, because you drive one part of this road every day. I can make a commitment to see how and what. And the same as before, and why the decision was the same as it was. But here, because we are now in the end, we would like to point out once again that we will be able to talk about countless projects, but we all have not only desires, but also needs, because we come from the environment and know what is going on in that environment, what is missing; so that I hope and I want to do together what we have written in the coalition contract to realize; that traffic security, that investment in transport infrastructure is a priority, not just on paper, but also when we put together a budget and will have to provide money for it; because in the past it was really too small, there was a crisis, there was no crisis. So that we did not interfere too much with social rights, we gave up investment, but here are the consequences. Infrastructure is really in a state where it needs concretely not to say very concretely, reconstruction and also new construction. Regarding this particular – the commitment to check on how and what. I also have written what has been done on this existing route, but I don't think there's any need to mention it in particular.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Madam Minister, I thank you for your promise to look into the matter. This 2015 government strategy states when it refers to the 2004 Strategy for the Spatial Development of Slovenia that this is the hierarchically highest spatial document with which all other spatial acts must be coordinated at national level. And then, of course, this 2015 Act was not in line with the 2004 Spatial Development Strategy, because this latest strategic transport document lacks this so-called Idriological Leg of the Fourth Development Axis. That is why, Madam Minister, in addition to checking the matter out, for which I have already said that I thank you, I invite you to come by on the ground and to see in practice why this fourth development axis without the Idrija-logic leg of the fourth development axis is a disability project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u204	Mr Boris Doblekar will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Juret Lebnu, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u205	Thank you so much for saying that. In Slovenia, a number of degraded areas are usually caused by the mistreatment of the environment. The reasons are different, but now I wouldn't talk about them. Since there has been a great deal of talk in recent years about ecology and it is also trying to arrange as much as possible for these degraded areas to be restored or put into their original state and to obtain adequate European resources, I have a few questions for the Minister. I want to know: How many degraded areas in Slovenia after the last census? How does the state face these areas? How do we deal with the consequences of degradation? How much money have they allocated this year to rehabilitate degraded areas? Are these areas on land owned by state, municipality, or private property, and how much percentage? I will highlight the degraded area of the Rakovnik Valley in Šmartne near Lithuania, which I have also talked about at the Minister's hearing, and he has promised to help and support this degraded area to be rehabilitated. In 1969, in Šmartne near Lithuania, Rakovnik began to drive very dangerous, harmful leather wastes, full of ammonium, nitrates, sulphates, chromiums, heavy metals, acids, very dangerous things that evaporate into the air or flow into nature, into the river Rakovnik, into the river River and into the river Sava and into the sea. And it's been on millions of cubicles for years. There are about 100,000 tonnes of these hazardous wastes in this area, and for years and years we have been fighting to get this area out of the way, which would be the most appropriate solution. The Minister has also promised to take matters seriously, and of course I would like to see this hazardous landfill as well. The transfer of land ownership is being arranged, and I want to know how it is. I asked for a new financial assessment of the rehabilitation or complete removal to the incinerator or other suitable place. But I want to know exactly what time it is: When will the recovery take place? Once again, I propose that all hazardous waste be removed from this area and that people live normally so as not to poison nature, surroundings, animals, rivers and so on. I propose that the Minister answer my question orally at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u206	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the President of the Government, ministers and ministers for the answers given and thus interrupt the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue tomorrow, 20 November 2018, when the National Assembly decides on the proposed decisions in the context of the votes. I am also adjourning the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 19. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
