ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 37th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Ljudmila Novak from 17.30 p.m. on, mag. Andrej Šircelj, Mrs Jelka Godec, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko, Mrs Nada Brinovšek, Mrs Vesna Vervega by 12 noon, Mrs Urška Ban from 16.30 p.m. on, Mrs Vlasta Pocakj, Violeta Tomić from 15 hours on, mag. Branislav Rajič, Mr Peter Wilfan, Dr. Franc Trček, Mr Jernej Vrtovac, Mr Roberto Battelli, Matjaž Hanžek from 2 p.m. on, Miha Kordiš, Franz Breznik, mag. Matthew Tonin, Mr. Sasa Tabakovic from 11 a.m. to 14 p.m., Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc to 2 p.m., mag. Bojan Krajnc, mag. Aleksander Kavčič, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, Mr Benedict Kopmajer from 2 p.m. to 2 p.m., Mr Uroš Prikl to 12 p.m., Mr Franc Laj, Mr Zvonko Lah, and between 11.15 p.m. and 14 p.m. I will also be away. I welcome everyone here. Before we move on to the 10th item of the agenda, allow me to briefly address the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to politely invite you to look into our common past before the 37th regular meeting of the National Assembly. Tomorrow, 27 January, it will be 73 years since the soldiers of the Red Army liberated the Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp, a horror factory that still carries one of the most fearsome symbols of the Nazi regime and its collaborators. The horrors of the Holocaust and other mass crimes against humanity, which were committed under the third Reich, touch all of us, because they did not merely destroy their victims, but they also dehumanized them. They have shown that man's delusions can attack his essence only, his humanity. That's why memory counts. American literature and Nobel laureate John Steinbeck said: “All kindness and heroism will one day rise again, be cut down and raised again. It is not about winning the evil thing, it will never be, but about never dying." At a time when impatience and hatred for fellow humans are once again dangerously moving through the societies in which we live, remembering the delusions that must never happen again is crucial. With him we bow down to the dead, build our own consciousness, and warn the generations that follow us. Therefore, respectable and respected, our remembrance of the victims of the Holocaust on the international day of remembrance will not only be a glimpse into the past but also a warning and a hope for the future. That someday heroism and goodness may once and for all conquer evil. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a law amending the law of indemnity. The draft law was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Mark Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues, greetings to all who are sitting at the gallery today and accompanying the meeting of the National Assembly! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have decided to put a bill amending the Income Act into the legislative process. We have decided for several reasons: the burden of work with taxes and contributions in Slovenia is one of the highest in the European Union countries and even in the world. This applies, in particular, to higher and highly qualified posts with wages which are on average or slightly higher than the average. Due to such a high burden of work with taxes and contributions, the Slovenian economy is less competitive and productive, as it cannot spend enough money on research and development, which are at the heart of the economic growth and well-being of each country. The high workload of work, of course, also has an impact on higher unemployment. Studies by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the OECD, demonstrate that the high burden of labour income is problematic in at least two aspects; the first pressure on the cost of work and the international competitiveness of businesses and thus of the country is a risk of increasing the grey economy. Of course, the amount of the workload of work also affects the income received by the worker, the remuneration he receives for his work and we usually call it pay, is generally his main source of income and therefore has an important impact on his ability to spend or save that income. Gross salaries include social contributions paid by the worker, while net salaries are calculated after deduction of these contributions and all amounts owed to the State, such as income. In Slovenia, the country of worker applying only general relief takes around 60% of his net salary in the form of contributions and taxes, with an average wage of about 80%, and the country of worker takes all his net salary for twice the average wage. In the case of salaries higher than twice the average wage, this percentage is increasing more progressively. The main objective of the proposed law is to reduce the tax burden on labour income or the tax burden in Slovenia, which can be achieved by reducing the rates in all income classes and increasing the general income relief. The tax burden on labour income will also increase the net wages of workers, at the same time increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, reduce unemployment and also the extent of the grey economy. The main solutions to the proposed law are to reduce the rates in all income classes by two percentage points and to increase the general income allowance to EUR 3 000 500. The increase in the overall relief rate from the current 3 000 302 euros to 3 000 500 euros for an average wage worker amounts to an increase in the monthly net salary of 14 euros. However, a reduction of two percentage points in all general income benefits means an additional increase of €19 per month. By implementing the amendment to the Income Act following the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, an employee with an average salary per year would earn about EUR 400 more. We are in the Slovenian Democratic Party for higher wages, but without burdening the economy, by reducing tax burdens. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that economic growth must also be known in the pockets and wallets of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we expect to convince you to support the proposed amendment to the Income Act and thus allow workers and workers in Slovenia to pay higher wages, but not at the expense of the additional burden of the economy, but at the expense of reducing the tax burden.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u3	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Tiln Bozic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u4	Dear President, honourable Members, distinguished guests! The solutions presented by the proposal would not be repeated at this time, given that the proposal already presented them in detail, so that it would only go down to the government's opinion in that part which then complements it. As already mentioned above, the effects of such a change on the tide side exceed EUR 200 million. However, reaching a tax burden on work is certainly one of the priorities set by this government at the time of the show. But it is true that she put it within a certain framework. The same orientation was fiscal consolidation and in this context we have also drawn up those objectives relating to tax policy – we are talking about restructuring – because we find that we are comparable on average with other countries, but in some areas there are asymmetries, this is just a burden of work, we have, then we have an improvement in the collection of taxes if we are simplified to express ourselves and work on administrative burdens. These are all those goals we have. In this context, of course, we have done many things in 2016 and 2017, and of course many things in this year are also in force. If I just summarize them briefly to give a sense of how this government has set itself up and is also pursuing a policy in the area of wage relief, of course, within the framework set out to ensure that public finances do not go off balance again. The first word is certainly a change in the middle scale, which has changed significantly, even in the sense that one of the classes has split into two. From here on, a slight increase has also been made in the area of additional general relief, and at the same time the former step-by-step tax relief this year has been abolished because of the fact that the debtors are in a fairer position; it is said that they have all gained, no one has lost. At the annual level, if we look at the fallout of this measure alone for the state budget, there are 14 million euros, which, of course, remain our citizens and citizens. From here on, let me also mention the solutions relating to income relief, and this is part of the part of the salary for business performance. This has been adopted since 2017, up to 70% of this year's average salary is increased, as the coalition Members have also proposed an increase to the average wage, which is also a significant effect for the so-called so-called, often called 13th salary. From here on, of course, it is also worth mentioning the instructions. There has been some confusion, which, in my opinion or in the opinion of the Government, we have also addressed. It is said that up to 30 days it is arranged that short-term travel in terms of reimbursement of costs become equivalent to a business trip. In addition, it also applied to those who last more than 30 days, for those who add the most to the knowledge somehow – it is also a measure that contributes to mobility, given that it relates to the postings of workers, the referrals of scientists and so on. There is a possibility of taking advantage of relief, which will also certainly help to do so; for the first time, they decide to go out when they learn to bring this knowledge back, but also in the opposite direction. This certainly goes in those directions that we think of as some meaningful vision of development in the field of labour taxation, which will require further work. All together, if we look at the annual level, how much impact on these two packages of changes will be strong over €100 million. In addition to the measures relating to the general relief and income scale, the applicant also mentioned the area of taxation of income from basic agricultural and forestry activities, saying that the threshold of EUR 200 to EUR 500 was raised. It is certainly worth mentioning here that in Slovenia we do not have the regulated organisational status of the farm, nor do we have the formal registration of natural persons who carry out agricultural or forestry activities on the farm; therefore, for various purposes, the farm is defined differently and, consequently, the data on their number varies significantly. For this reason, we come to the conclusion that the effective tax rate of those who end up in taxation – and these are relatively few, about 10% – is, in our view, also appropriate and understandable and follows what was the basic orientation. Thus, the Government considers that the solutions outlined by the applicant are not appropriate at this time for both public and substantive reasons, but one thing is certainly true; you have proposed one possible approach to decommissioning work. The project is also part of the OECD project, which will also discuss these options, and I believe that this can also be one of those things as alternative solutions, but it certainly applies to this earlier and not so, in ad hoc elections. But for further clarifications as always at my disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u5	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! Maybe a sentence to the Secretary of State. We've been waiting three and a half years for this ad hoc to talk, and to explain the things you're planning, you're going to do in the area of taxes. During this time of waiting for this, our so-called ad hoc approach, has happened a lot. First the situation changed, now those difficult situations immediately after the Pahor government and the Pahor government and after the Pahor government are gone, the situation in the country is improving, the situation is better. The credit goes only to the economic activities of companies and you will not find, no matter how hard the government representatives try, no action that would contribute anything to the economy's somehow better momentum, better conditions, nor will you find a measure that would bring something like this to the citizens, that is to say, to the natural persons. The economy has succeeded in the market, exports are growing, and the economy's investments are growing. This is also partly known in the pockets of citizens, even in consumption, but this optimism has quickly been extinguished by the Government of Crisis Taxes, which is said by the force of the situation of increased taxes, set up and imposed as permanent taxes. The government has done nothing because of these higher inflows into the budget and other cash registers. Excess money has not been spent on paying or reducing public debt, and the excess of money in the budget and other systems has not been used to improve the economic environment, but has simply spent more or less on starting employment in the public sector. According to the Government, some 8 000 800 people have been employed in this mandate. At the annual level, this means an additional fixed cost for the country of around EUR 300 million, and this cost will burden all further governments not only at the time of economic growth but, above all, when trends turn. Similarly, nothing has been done in this mandate to rationalise the funds used or the funds made available. Budget resources are being wasted irrationally, you have a TES case, you have a second track case, you have a case of health corruption, in fact in these areas there is no activity completely detected in order to cut down the fins in order to implement any sanctions due to the irrational spending of budgetary resources. The only thing, or possible, that the Government would be effective in this area is that it has stopped drawing funds from the current financial perspective. This is a problem and the country is responsible and there is not enough done in this area and it is lagging far behind for the expected flow of funds. High taxes or high economic growth are and high revenues in the budget are an opportunity to take a step forward in the area of rationalising tax burdens. Not by knowing it somewhere for the decimal, but by making these changes more radical. In any case, too high a tax reduces the investment potential both in the field of economy and in the private sector, of natural persons and of those economic entities that are taxable. As they become overburdened, their ability to dispose of their own resources is reduced, they are limited in planning their own development path and also in the part where they are not economists, including spending. It is obvious that this philosophy of left coalitions appears here, that as much as possible must be collected so that it can then be distributed as much as possible. This is said to get people into some columns, into some kind of window, and also in front of the ministries' headquarters doors, where officials decide what is a smart investment for someone and what is not. I must say that the environment around us is also active in the area of tax change. Taxes are changing in Switzerland, income in Austria, Croatia, tax changes are being made in Italy, in fact all of our neighbouring environments are in a situation where we are, approximately in a similar situation, we are working to make it more attractive, more pleasant, more attractive, and that people are also becoming more satisfied, as well as economic societies. We alone insist on excessively high taxes, whether on VAT or also on income and also on contributions are relatively high. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, at the end of last year, we proposed amendments to two laws, namely three; the VAT law, value added tax, we have already discussed and rejected it. Today we have two more laws regulating two areas of taxation, namely income and cadastral income. Unfortunately, we have also received a negative opinion from the government for these two laws, as is the custom. We are not able to write a single law in the Slovenian Democratic Party in this mandate for which the Government would give a positive opinion. It is a little unusual that the largest opposition party in the National Assembly, with a tradition of independence, which has led the government twice, would not be able to write a law that would attract the government and that the government would support it and give a positive opinion. But that's the way it is. The complacency and power you have is the one that also determines the content. I'm sorry. The problem is not SDS, the problem is you and the problem is people who actually have to live with that burden. The fact is that the minimum wage already imposes a heavy burden on income, including additional contributions. I must say that if you have read this explanation, you see that about 40% of the minimum wage, that is to say that the gross gross wage on the minimum wage is 40% higher, which means that much is taken. If you go to the next group of wages, this is said to average or double average wages, these things are even worse, even more burdensome, growing exponentially. I must say, as far as the current situation is concerned, it is excessive. The country doesn't need that kind of money. These basic solutions proposed by this amendment of the law are three. First of all, a reduction in income rates for all income classes is proposed by a reduction of two percentage points. I think it's a step that's going in the right direction. This measure has some financial implications. We have estimated that some 90 million euros are at annual level. We believe that this trend is the unloading, that the scale is moving or dropping, that it is an appropriate measure. The second thing we propose is to increase the overall relief to EUR 3 000 500. So this general relief is going to rise by 200 euros. There are also some financial implications. We've estimated about 150 million. It's not too much either. However, as regards households, which are particularly in a difficult situation after all these things that have occurred recently, we propose raising the threshold from €200 to €500. This is the threshold from which a farmer is liable to pay VAT or a taxable person for payment of income. I think that such things need to be heard and supported in these situations. Perhaps you will oppose these proposals in the coalition and in the government, because you have already written this opinion, but I must say that there is an opportunity before you to correct these proposals, improve them, you can also offer higher rates of income reductions, a more favourable general ease and you can also offer a more favourable rate for the cadastral debtors. Regardless of the fact that we have experience in the Slovenian Democratic Party with the government in a good, favourable economic situation, I can only remind you that we have reacted differently to the similar situation in 2004-2008 than the current coalition. At that time, we prepared a tax reform, a tax change, and also a tax change from corporate profits. I must say that this reform has also been aligned with the opposition Social Democrats at the time and has brought about a billion 200 million marks of financial impact. Approximately half for natural persons or taxable persons and about half for companies. Much of what was then fired or burdened has already been invested in one way or another, it is said that companies have also been better able to cope with the crisis that followed, as well as with income commitments, so that some of it can be spent. Just imagine what would have happened during this crisis if we had not done so. If we didn't do these loads! That's what they say. We can assume that everything is blocked. However, if you are as good as you say, as the President of the Government has told us, even now in Davos, and every time he comes to the National Assembly, even to us in the National Assembly, then perhaps he could give support to our law, in fact he should not be questionable and this law would go to the hearing, the second hearing in the National Assembly. If you are so good, such solutions as we now propose in the Slovenian Democratic Party should be proposed no later than last year within the regular part of the Government. We should also propose this in order to avoid staying in this part of Europe an island known for high taxes. I said earlier that all our neighborhood has already reduced taxes, reduced them, wanted to be more attractive, more attractive, wanted to have more satisfied people and better conditions for the economy and the high taxes did not just testify. Even a successful government, whatever it is, in a normal situation, cannot boast in good conditions that we have high taxes. Taxes also need to be reduced so that the neighbouring countries do not create better conditions, more stimulating conditions for their middle layer or for the rich, and that we have praised and worked to ensure that the waiting lines are as long as possible before the government offices' windows and that they will make various applications for social and other assistance. In short, I expect that this proposal of our law, which has been tabled, will be supported and allowed to proceed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u7	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good-bye to all of you! The amendment of the Income Act has recently become a very popular tool for proposing popular ideas in the tax area. However, tax policies do not just come to mind and startle, especially since reckless moves do not allow us enough space within the framework of public finances, with financial consequences, we may be hit pretty quickly. Today's opposition proposal also entails a loss of more than €200 million in total, so we would urgently need a serious and reasoned explanation of the reasons for doing so. Nor will only the explanation be sufficient; appropriate solutions should be found to cover such a failure. The applicant is using the same trick we were given in defending the reduction of value added tax rates, and today the story is going in the same direction. The applicant thus points out that the tax burden on labour income would increase the net wages of workers and lead to higher consumption. Although the individual would have saved a few euros a month on income, in no case would it have been automaticism that would have contributed to the greater competitiveness of the economy or to the reduction of unemployment and the grey economy, but not only would the individual taxpayer have been deprived of the right to pay and the right to social transfers. The government estimates that the tax relief in the form of higher personal consumption would be the most helpful to those in the lowest income classes, since they are only committed to spending their additional income, but such a assumption would only bring up an additional EUR 15 million, which is still substantially low. Even if we understood the intention of the proposalers to reshape the income scale to relieve the lower income classes or the middle population, in the Desus Group we strongly oppose a reduction in the tax rate in the applicable highest income class. Indeed, maintaining the fifth income class, taking into account 50% of the tax rate, was also a key condition that the Group of Members participated in any intervention on the income scale. Let us repeat our clear position, the tax burden must contribute to those who are weak, but not make it easier for those who create over-average earnings. We also advocated a very similar principle when determining the five classes when paying the annual allowance for all pensioners. In short, we are for a fairer and more solidarity-based treatment. In view of all the above, the Desus Group opposes the inclusion of the draft law in further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u9	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u10	Thank you very much, distinguished President, distinguished Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Yesterday I received a large-scale e-mail material on the Freedom Index, on the Index of Personal Freedom by State and, of course, on the Index of Economic Freedom. I can say that I am to some extent satisfied, because, as far as the index of personal freedom is concerned, we are in the 17th place from the 159 countries measured. As far as economic freedom is concerned, this is actually what we are talking about today, and we are in 73rd place from 159 countries. With this we cannot and are not satisfied in New Slovenia. We're not happy. That is why such discussions are needed, so it is necessary for the Government to come to realize at the end of the term that it may be necessary to listen to the opposition at some point or another. Ladies and gentlemen, the excessive tax burden is contrary to the Christian-democratic principle of subsidiarity, whereby all social processes where possible should be carried out at the most basic social level. The country should only enter into these processes when it is no longer able to perform optimally at a lower level. In Nova Slovenija, we believe that an individual is much more responsible and rational than a country when dealing with financial resources, so that only a limited amount of the resources necessary to operate its systems can be transferred to the country through taxes. On the other hand, citizens should retain a greater share of the resources they have created themselves with their intellectual abilities, their entrepreneurial abilities and their work. In the field of labour tax burden, Slovenia is among countries with an average high percentage of duties. While the average OECD is 36%, the burden on Slovenia is 42.7%. 42.7%! According to Eurostat, the share of public consumption in gross domestic product remains above 45 %. This is shown in practice by the way that the money created by our people is overly managed by the state or by politics. Those who receive only a minimum wage must also finance high public spending of the country. In New Slovenia we demand that this way of functioning of our country be stopped immediately. So we would say that politics needs to be slightly removed from our taxpayers' wallets. That the tax burden of work hinders economic development in Slovenia, the research agency Spirit, our agency Spirit, also warns. This analysis shows that foreign investors see the exact burden of work with taxes and contributions and labour costs among the biggest obstacles to investment in Slovenia, followed immediately by taxation of profits and income and tax procedures. The business survey carried out between German companies in Slovenia also shows that pollers expect their reduction between income from work and government as the most urgent measure. What did the Left Government Coalition, ladies and gentlemen do in almost the entire mandate? She did not even touch on the serious improvement of the Slovenian tax system! That is why such discussions, as is the case today, are essential, although at the end of the mandate. On the other hand, in Novi Slovenija we have already proposed many times a reduction in the tax burden on work and an increase in net wages for all. Raising net wages for everyone. By increasing the general income allowance to €7,000, average Slovenian employees would receive more than €80 higher net salary per month. With our amendment to the scheme of contributions, employees with minimum wage would increase their monthly net income by 50 euros. At the same time, the development cap would reduce excessive burdens on the most qualified, such as engineers and doctors. Too many of the most capable young people are fleeing to more developed countries due to higher wages. This is the most dramatic Slovenian exodus, an exodus of young educated personnel. The solution is that Slovenia also offers them higher wages, better welfare, better standards for their families. We have already proposed this in New Slovenia and we stand firm for our solutions. The Left Government Coalition, as an argument against our solutions, cites budgetary incoherence. This is amazing that the Ministry of Finance, despite having excellent experts there, has a station and is the accounting of the Republic of Slovenia. I respect the Minister. Unfortunately, he doesn't have enough political power. I respect her thinking about our commitments to the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. Yesterday's statements are worrying coming from the European Commission. I can see that Mrs. Minister is also concerned, Mag. Matthew Vranick Erman. Too bad they don't listen to her in government. And all of this is gonna hit the taxpayer's wallets brutally. On the other hand, she does not have a problem, i.e. the left coalition, with the risk of penalties, as has already been said, for not selling the New Ljubljana Bank, for failing to fulfil our commitments. It does not seem to have a problem with the 250 million recapitalisation of DUB and SDH, the problem is not even a billion-dollar repayment of the country's debt, which is still ongoing and continuing. The increase in budget expenditure in several hundred million amounts does not seem wrong to the Government. In Novi Slovenija we demand an increase in wages for all citizens. This can only be done by reducing tax burdens both on income and on contributions. That is why we will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u12	Thank you very much, President. Dear Secretary of State and my colleagues! We are ahead of a serious subject that requires a serious, in-depth discussion, and above all requires a frank discussion. I can't – I have listened with interest to my predecessor now – I can't, of course, get rid of the feeling that we are all using this city now to talk people, voters and voters three, four months before the elections on a subject that can affect the pockets of each individual. The sheet of paper, underlined with such and different color, written on this sheet is such a different number, it sounds nice, but in the end it must all come out in life. I am also listening to a colleague from Desus who says that all these debates need to be seriously and objectively discussed on all these proposals. I couldn't agree more. But, my dears, if we accept all the proposals, all the marriage proposals, the novels that we have, which we are investing in these days, by the end of this term, I will now say, we can close trade in August. We're gonna waste everything we can. Desus would like to have a billion more pensions, the SDS would like to lower taxes, of course New Slovenia would sell everything, the Social Democrats are not exempt here, we would also raise the minimum wage, and the Left has ideas all three and a half years old that are not real. Let us be right and specific to people. Today we're going to discuss taxes. It's a serious topic. We'll be discussing these taxes for over nine hours. We have two points. In fact, it is a matter of a greedy country which, with unreasonable high contributions to working people, lowers income and discourages them from economic activity. This, of course, is in a way spoken by the opposition or the SDS. I respect, but they're looking at this world from this perspective. Nothing new. Nothing new we haven't actually heard. In fact, they want what I said before to somehow communicate to the SDS their version of how they would manage this country. Correct, fair. It is our job for the Social Democrats to give our answer in some way and to say what we think and, above all, to say what we really think. In this country, ladies and gentlemen, wages are not only low due to taxes. They're taxed pretty high, but they're not just low on taxes. Slovenia is a small country and in Slovenia we have some kind of solidarity system that other countries do not have. We must be proud of that, and we must be content with that. This solidarity has its price and also concrete value for workers, for entrepreneurs, if you want, for farmers. We also have health care, and we also have health insurance and pension insurance, which costs a lot in this country, but we all know where the reasons are. The demographic reasons for this moment are those that claim that we cannot reduce without knowing how many contributions and taxes. In the past, we made a number of mistakes when we put people, relatively young people, at the age of 45, into retirement. If we reduce all of this, all of these contributions and all of these ideas that we have, all of these taxes that we reduce, ladies and gentlemen, we will not have to raise pensions much and we will not be able to raise much, nor will we pay much. We want to say one thing today, Social Democrats, that we really want to talk about this serious topic, but we do not want to break down the social state because of the so-called acquisition of some points on some competing scales, various OECDs and various global scales, where we read again, on which we, people, citizens and citizens have nothing. The suggestions we have before us today have already been seen; we have seen not so far back. I am in favour of this, even though I am a social democrat, that we should all start talking seriously together, that as much money as we have, something will have to be reformed. Social policy in that country should also be reformed, and social policy in that country should be reformed. But that's why we're gonna have to put some membership cards in our last pocket for a while, all together, because then we're gonna get some solutions easier. As I said before, we have already seen all these ideas, proposals, we have seen a general reduction in tax rates, an increase in general reliefs, an increase in the framework for flat-rate taxation, we have seen it all before, and it is not a problem to write quickly, we have also seen, maybe even fair then, but it was certainly the easiest. We saw some kind of general incision, then this general incision a few years ago was called the so-called ZUJF. At that time, we cut 8% of our salaries to everyone in the public sector, and today all these people in the public sector, two days ago when they had a strike, are the most resentful. Because again we have done what is easiest, we have all picked up in the same way, and in the public sector there are people who work hard, who work very hard, and in the public sector there are people who hide in offices, and we don't actually find them all year. But the easiest thing, of course, is to get everyone the same amount and cut the costs all on average. I must say this that the right hand is in some way relatively good in this country. Everyone, the easiest thing to do is talk to this pay phone, or even if we're talking about salaries, more nets for less, for the same gross. Maybe. Maybe, but not like that, in an easy way, like I said, then this country needs to be relatively much turned around and at all segments look where it's running, I'll say, out of this barrel. But first of all, we need a political agreement between all the parties and we need a social agreement between employers, between unions, between the public sector, between the private sector and, above all, between policy. When, in some way, in this country, we can cut it all with one move, then we see the consequences for a long time, we don't get to the green branch anymore. We do have a historical memory, and we know roughly what happened. When the SDS led the government and when Nova Slovenija also had a minister, then, we all remember, they reduced some taxes. At that time, it was said that these tax cuts were made even by a billion at an annual level. You know what a lot of money is, a billion euros? All of this would be fine if this billion were poured into some new investment, poured into better wages, whatever. None of this has happened! We also did not save in those times of crisis in this country. We didn't. Folks, you can nod, we didn't, because if we saved something, we wouldn't have that kind of trouble, then the ZUJF wouldn't be needed. We didn't! [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, we've been in the middle of this, I don't like to communicate like that, but I still have the position of the Group of Ambassadors, but... [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u13	I agree. Please give peace so he can say it to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u14	For every single one of these things Mark says, I also have an answer for him back. That way, everyone in this country, no one can win a medal on their own. We're all guilty of something. I'll be quiet. To go back to this proposal. The price of this proposal, according to the applicant, is estimated at 92 million and two percent lower income rates at 150 million due to an increase in the overall benefit. If I've calculated correctly, it's 242 million a year. If I play with numbers a little bit, that's about €33, if everything were to be translated into wages, higher wages for an individual and therefore say that the circus's spending would be increased by €15 million. I don't know if it all works out. Maybe when he has one hand over his finances and he has a complete picture or someone who says you have a big picture. The Slovenian tax system, we probably agree, is not complete and, of course, we are not among the least-taxed countries, neither in the OECD nor in the European Union. I agree with this because it was probably never our goal either, because otherwise, in the 1990s, they would probably have made another goal and become maybe another country. For my terms, Slovenia must not become one of those countries that will participate in some race to the bottom. It is said that she would have low taxes on labour costs in order to have low tax capital in order to have a low traceability of ownership and the origin of assets. It's probably not Slovenia, it's not the environment in which everyone wants to live together. There's only two million of us. We need to ask ourselves how our public services should approach, in terms of accessibility and quality, Austrian, Scandinavian, but not how to adapt standards, so I will say, tax and environmental, South- or Central-American members of the OECD Club. Slovenia has a tax burden on the European Union average. That's how the stats show it. While all the data show, I also agree with the SDS and the New Slovenia that we have an over-average contribution to social security, which is, of course, due to the fact that we have not all reached a total of fundamental consensus and real changes in health, social and pension insurance in Slovenia. All too much in these main topics has been the work of politics and the power of its ideology. I therefore hope that we will be able to speak in the future and adapt in particular to the needs of how we will solve all these things, but not how we will generally cut off some of the rights that people have so far. I advocate, when we talk about the economy, that we have more productivity and added value in the economy, and thus, of course, the wages that are now said to be so taxed would be some pay that would not be a problem for the economy and the entrepreneur to develop their business. We want all of us to have more profits in companies, which – this profit – can also be returned to wages and human rewards with some tax reliefs, and this can actually be passed on to workers. That's the kind of country I'd like to have. That is why, despite the fact that I have said this honestly, as I think and also as we say to the Social Democrats, I welcome this debate, but we all know that this debate is going on and that the aim of this debate is to confront people before the elections. We in this country cannot afford to change tax policy "every week". It's the worst thing for economists. If we want to have a normal entrepreneurial economic environment, then the taxes must be clear and the economists need to know what kind of taxes they can operate on in this country. Social Democrats are always ready to talk about these key and important segments for our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u15	Now it's time for you to finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u16	The Social Democrats will not support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u17	The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President, and a nice greeting! The Left will clearly vote against this proposal. The law, if I may say so, is super-hikovsky. I'd take $200 million from the state and split it among the people with the highest income. In Levica, as you know, we are already fighting for an equal reverse policy, i.e. more taxing the rich and capital and helping those with the lowest income, those on the minimum wage, the pensioners, half of whom live with pensions below 623 euros, are said to be practically below the poverty threshold. Here we do not understand how the leader of the parliamentary group, the party now leaving and having a social adjective on behalf of the party, says that this is unrealistic or when he says this, we understand better why they are participating in a government that is actually proposing exactly such measures as this. Let us only recall their correction of the income scale at the beginning of the mandate, when citizens and citizens lost 80 million euros in income, all of which turned into 10% of the best wages in Slovenia. These are policies that are radically advocated by the right and, in a slightly milder version, the middle. If I were to illustrate this with numbers, the right hand would distribute 200 million euros, as is the case with this proposal, the midpoint has redistributed 80. Of course, we in Levica have calculated who would gain the most with such a proposal, and the following has turned out. The pensioners, I said before, the average pension is €625, and more than half of them receive pensions, less than that, would not get a cent with this proposal, because their incomes are too small to even fall into income. The beneficiaries of the minimum wage of €843 gross would gain €2.26 per month by means of this proposal; according to the 200 million budget outage, the beneficiaries of the minimum wage would receive €2.26 per month. Of course, it's a different picture for higher wages. Like MPs, ministers, Prime Minister. To illustrate the Prime Minister's salary, 79 euros a month or 948 euros a year. So, somehow those of us sitting in the National Assembly, those sitting in the government, would get close to thousands a year. More than once, we would have obtained the presidents of the boards and members of the boards. A member of the NLB administration would obtain EUR 151 per month, or more than EUR 1,000 800 per year. These are the effects of this proposal, and I don't think I need to mention it any further, because these numbers are already sufficiently eloquent in themselves. The second story, of course, is on the revenue side. I have mentioned many times that the EUR 200 million per annum has been converted into a state budget. Here I find it interesting that usually right-wing people are the ones who complain the most that there is not enough money to finance municipalities, but at the same time what they are competing is who is going to lower the income from income, which is the main source of funding for municipalities. So, on the one hand, you're just saying with your finger on the government for holes in roads, for not enough money for health homes and schools, but on the other hand, you're just proposing proposals to cut even more into funds that just finance the mending of road holes and the construction of health homes, the rehabilitation of school roofs and so on. Of course, your answer, as you have already said in the bill, will be that the proposed law would pay off income by increasing VAT revenues. You have already been answered by the Ministry of Finance; the revenue generated by the increase in consumption would be compensated in the amount of €15 million, so 10% of the shortfall would not be compensated by what you promise. So the logic of the law at this point is clearly failing. Then, of course, you will add, and the country will be more competitive because there will be lower taxes. Here too, I think that citizens no longer possess fairy tales, that there will be an economic miracle if we reduce taxes on capital and high incomes. You can look into nearby countries, now the famous Republika Srpska, where they have famously low taxes. Is that where it goes to the welfare of the citizens? Far from it! This is one of the most underdeveloped countries in Europe. If you say so, it is because it is not in the European Union and because state institutions are not built there, you can look at Romania or Bulgaria. Again: taxes are among the lowest in Europe, in Bulgaria someone with 5,000 euros pays the same rate of income as someone there with an average salary. But does this contribute to the development of the country? Not by all the indicators. You can also look at the United States, which among OECD countries have the lowest so-called tax margin of average wages. But the question is, what do people get there from a country that still pays 20% of their income on average wages? If you experience a leg fracture in the U.S., you can't go to a doctor for free, but you pay $6,000 for treatment. If you get sick, God forbid, for cancer, you usually have to sell an apartment or take a hundred-dollar loan so you can afford treatment. If you want to put a kid in college, you pay out of your pocket. These are the consequences or costs of this so-called economic freedom that you sell to right-wing people. In Levica, of course, we advocate a different concept of the country; a concept whereby all citizens have the same opportunities, whereby the state provides funding for basic services, whereby health care and access to adequate treatment is accessible to all, regardless of their income, and a concept whereby you do not have to be born in a wealthy family in order to afford higher education. Now, if I move slowly to the conclusion please? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u19	Order! Position!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u20	I'm surprised that in the SDS that you're proposing this law, you still haven't understood the lesson from your 1st and 2nd governments. You've both run such a policy. After 2007, you abolished the 50% income class for the richest. Then you excluded the capital income from progressive taxation, so that now some pensioner who received a pair of shares in transition pays the tax at the same rate as the largest capital owners in that country. Then you reduced the income to 20% of the company's profits and then to 2. The government at 17. You have abolished the tax on paid salaries, which Desus has ultimately supported, which is incomprehensible because this tax covered a third of the shortfall, a third of the pension deficit that we are covering from the budget. What were the consequences of these policies? The consequences were that, first of all, the economy in the years leading up to the crisis was much more overheating than if we were to run a reverse policy, and secondly, that the state budget was thus losing the resources that the state could use to mitigate the crisis after the crisis occurred after 2008. That was the consequences. And now, in another conjuncture, you're dragging us back into the same policies. I don't understand this and we don't understand it in Levica, so we will clearly vote against it because this law is harmful and because it is socially unjust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u21	The word shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vojka Shergan for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. A respected secretary with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, above all, the Ministry of Finance should have wizards have a magic wand in order to have all the needs, everything that is now happening on the one hand, higher wages in the public sector, higher pensions, lower taxes, this now, if we just somehow round up, is not actually going together. It can be restructuring, there can be some kind of tax movement, but we can't talk like that or we can't think straight. We can certainly assess that we cannot support such a proposal in the Modern Centre Party. The revenue shortfall of EUR 201 million cannot just be replaced. The public financial position does not provide an opportunity to reduce income without simultaneous measures on the revenue and expenditure side. These measures have not been proposed by SDS Members. Thus, amendments have been proposed that have allocated the expenditure of the state budget of almost €19 million. Given that the budget is linked to almost 90% of the legal obligations, the proposals were not feasible. The budget should be balanced. These violations have not been proposed by SDS Members. This means that such a law is a violation of the Constitution and of the fiscal rule because it is not possible to replace the 200 million budget revenue shortfall. Nor will we agree in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre to repeat the mistakes of the 2006-2008 period when the then government has contributed to overheating the economy through tax policy. The Slovenian economy is not overheating at this point and the current economic policy measures will not overheat in 2018. As a result, the way forward must be to create surpluses for bad times and prepare Slovenia for a possible future crisis. We don't do that with such populist measures. However, it is necessary to say that the Government by means of measures strengthens the competitiveness of the business environment, affecting sustainable economic growth and increasing the global competitiveness of Slovenia on the one hand, while ensuring public financial consolidation by gradually structurally balancing public finances. With regard to promoting consumption, it is worth mentioning that we have approached this through a mini-tax reform in 2016, which has also increased additional general relief by EUR 300, and by excluding part of the salary for business performance from the tax base of labour income and a slight change in the income scale for employees over 1.6 times the average wage. We also encouraged consumption by measures taken by the new tax package adopted in November 2017 in the National Assembly. Thus, the solutions to the new Income Act allow higher incomes for selective groups. The change in the way in which additional general relief is determined allows certain taxpayers to increase their net salary under the average wage. Also increasing the special relief for students and students increases their net earnings. All of this will have a positive impact on consumption without jeopardising public finances at all. The adoption of a proposal for amendments to the Law on Income from SDS would constitute a violation of the Constitution because there is no measure on the other hand to balance the structural budget. In this mandate, the government and the coalition have gone towards a decommissioning of work. Thus, for 106 million less income from income due to the adoption of the mini tax reform and an additional 22 million due to the measures taken in November 2017. However, the Government has increased the burden of capital and health and the environment of harmful products, thus making up for the loss of income. It also consolidated public finances by limiting public spending, reducing budget expenditure in the proportion of GDP in 2018 by more than 1% of GDP in 2008. As a result of all the changes in the Income Act mentioned in the SMC, we will not support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u23	We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr. Luka Moon has the floor. Representative of the proposer, Mag. A bagel, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u24	Mr President, thank you for the floor. It is a pity that we have not taken any more time in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because that is what we need to – ha, I would say – to comment a little. In opening, I would say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we stand for higher wages. For higher wages, but not at the expense of additional taxation of the economy, but at the expense of reductions in taxes and contributions. This is the red thread of our thinking. In view of all the views of the members of the groups, given everything I say, I will start from behind, that is, 2008. There was a great deal of evidence that the first Yanshea government had run an inadequate policy. The first Janševa government in 2008 – Slovenia was above average on all European scales. In 2008, Slovenia had the lowest unemployment rate in history, and 60,000 were unemployed. Following the conclusion of the Pahor government, this figure exceeded 120 000. For the first time in the history of Slovenia, Slovenia had a positive budget in the time of the Janša government. Pensions in the time of the Janša government were aligned with inflation and living expenses. In 2008, pensioners received additional contributions, about 150 euro in additions because it was estimated that this should be increased. But here it is said that this policy was inadequate. They're talking about the ZUJF that the SDS has accepted the ZUJF. He did, but he could. Why? Because of the disastrous rule of three years of Social Democrats and Borut Pahor. Only because the country would collapse otherwise. And two governments after having had scissors and linen in their hands, the ZUJF could, if so certain, withdraw; but none, the government of Mir Cerar, nor the government of Alenka Bratušek. Even a temporary measure to increase value added tax has changed the Government of Mir Cerar into a permanent measure. It is indeed necessary to pour pure wine here and also to tell the truth in the way it is and, above all, by the parliamentary groups, the Social Democrats, the Left and the Party of the Modern Centre, but it was, I would say, a great deceiving. For a lot of deceiving. Above all, this coalition is trying to get the bad results of its work, the inadequate leadership of this country, I would say, on the SDS. I am sure that voters and voters know how she ruled and how the country was run between 2004 and 2008, when, of course, they were still the best results. The SMC even says that this law, which we propose, is unconstitutional because we do not give more to replace these 200 million euros. We have said in part, but on the other hand, I will tell you how these solutions can be found or how this 200 million drop could be reduced. First, a respected coalition, by drawing on European funds. Under this government, under this coalition, we have the worst amount of European funds in the history of Slovenia, but we have about 3 billion resources available. 1.3 billion tax debt; 1.3 billion tax debt to the respected Secretary of State! If you lower it by 15%, we're here at this 200 million. A lot of those reserves could be found. Secondly, I cannot accept the fact that most of the positions of the coalition parties have spoken in the direction that this is an ad hoc proposal by the Slovenian Democratic Party and that this reason has been tabled solely because of the upcoming elections. No, it's not! It's not! It's not! It's not! In this mandate, the Slovenian Democratic Party has introduced at least 20 laws, at least 20 laws, which have announced various facilitations and different burdens of both the Slovenian economy and nationals of the Republic of Slovenia, both by reducing value added tax and reducing income tax and by amending the Income Act as well as reducing excise policy. However, more than 20 laws tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party in this mandate have been rejected by this coalition, by the Government of Mir Cerar, the Modern Centre Party, the Social Democrats and Desus. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the tax burdens in Slovenia are too high, the economy and the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia are overburdened. Dear coalition, distinguished secretary of state, tell me why the letter of oil in Austria is one euro. Dear coalition, distinguished secretary of state, tell me why a thousand litres of heating oil in Celovac is 150 euros cheaper than in Slovenia, than in Ljubljana, than in Murski Sobota. Dear coalition, tell me what you've done with about 2 billion higher revenues than the budget in 2014 or 2013. Where did you put these about 2 billion created by the economy? I have said many times, even when the budget is being adopted, this government and this coalition is what created the economy, ate and drank, you have hired an additional 8,000 people in the public administration. For example, at the end of 2016 you recapitalised EUR 200 million. Why? This particular answer has not yet been answered. You have recapitalised DUTB at more than EUR 50 million. A concrete answer — why not? Due to inadequate governance policies both one and the other institutions! Here you do not find, I would say, listening to the proposals of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which go for the economy and which go for the benefit of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. You're always looking for excuses not to be able to do that, that's outrageous. In this final debate, however, the presentation of the views of the Modern Centre Party that this law, which we represent, is even unconstitutional, is not in accordance with the Constitution. I think it is extremely scandalous to hear something like this from the Vice-President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Because here's the truth, I'd say it's a shame to lose words. I want to know what you've done for the development of the country. What have you done to develop the country in these three years? I want to know what you've done for the development of the country. How many new kindergartens, how many new hospitals have been built? I want to know! Even in the Slovenian Democratic Party, half a year ago, we proposed that the Government or the Ministry of Finance should prepare a report on what the taxes collected in the country were used for. You have rejected such a proposal. You turned it down! And I also know why. For reasons, it would probably have been in there that you spent it on wages and for the purposes of this government. On the other hand, you made an additional commitment. Look, you can't represent, or the President of the Government, how good Slovenia is, what economic growth is, and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have fewer in their wallet every month. They have lower wages and you charge them extra. On the other hand, this government further entrusted the State of the Republic of Slovenia, as the State was in charge at the end of 2014. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the amendment of the Income Act is appropriate, that it is not unconstitutional, that it is in accordance with the fiscal rule and that such an amendment to the Income Law would not endanger public finances, nor would it endanger public finances if we knew that there were 1.3 billion tax debts and that we have the worst amount of European funds in the history of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u25	Mr. Luka Moon has the floor. Mr Tomaž Lisec and Mr Primož Hainz be prepared. Mr. Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'm just going to put some replicas on the proposer. First, on the right you like to use this phrase, but the left, and then you kind of circle this field from the government to us and you try to show that now we're all trying to pull together things that this government hasn't done or where it's failed, and point to SDS as the culprit or the right as the culprit. We in Levica are exactly as critical of any government party as you are. We can look at all the magnetograms, and you'll see how we comment when the government proposes laws like yours. Same way. That's the first thing. That's another thing. When you say, "I'm sorry, too, for this law, I have to touch again on this famous success of your first government." [[…]] You say that Slovenia was a super-successful country in 2008 after all European rankings, that it had the lowest unemployment rate, that it had a positive budget and that the pensions were coordinated. See, in 2007, economic growth was 6.9% and that you had a balanced budget for 6.9% of economic growth. Sorry, that's not an achievement, that's a disaster. Under your own fiscal rule, the surplus in the budget should then be one billion euros. Because he wasn't there, and then we came up with a crisis when we had to finance the debt. That's exactly the kind of policy that got us there. When you say our taxes are too high, I don't know who you're comparing us to when you say our taxes are too high. Slovenia collects 38.6% of GDP in its budget. Austria, through which we like to imitate ourselves, collects 43.8% of GDP. Denmark, which would prefer us to follow suit, raises 46.6% of GDP. Even if you take a map of Europe and figure out where the countries of migration are and where the countries of immigration are, you will see that Romania, Bulgaria, Bosnia and so on, the countries that I listed earlier, which are famously low taxes, are those from which people are leaving. And Denmark, Germany, Austria, France, which are not only comparable to us, but where the country is larger than we are, are the countries that are successful, the countries that provide their citizens with decent services and the countries where people live well. I really don't understand, I mean, these ideologies just for your suggestions, I'm very sorry, and I don't support this concept, nor can I support this proposal again. As I say, I will vote against, not just from the development perspectives, but also because our priorities are completely different. We have people living with social assistance for 289 euros a month. We have people working eight hours a day, and they don't even break through the poverty threshold. We have half the pensioners who live below the poverty line. And if someone is to be cared for, then we can talk about how to reward those with the highest income, what this law does. But first for the most disadvantaged. That's the maximum left we follow. Now, if anyone in the National Assembly thinks this is unrealistic, then I don't understand what reality is for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u27	The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u28	Look, dear fellow moon. Your legitimate right is whether you vote in favour or against. We can't challenge you here. Well, you have your opinion, which I also allow. On one side. On the other hand, I cannot agree with your arguments, with the content that you are performing with. And here I have the right. You're talking about evicting young people. See how many young people move out of Slovenia every year – for about one generation. For what? Because they do not see any perspective in Slovenia. However, they do not see the perspective, I would say, due to the period of left-wing parties' rule and the policy of the left-hand party they are implementing. Only because of this. Excise policy is one of the main contributors to the budget of all world countries. Dear colleague Mesec, tell me why in Austria a thousand litres of heating oil is 150 euros cheaper than in Slovenia, than in Ljubljana, Murski Sobota, Škofja Loki, Kranju, Koperu. Why? Why can a thousand litres of heating oil be cheaper than 150 euros? Smoking oil is needed by all layers of the population and is paid equally by everyone. Dear fellow moon, why have you not supported the reduction of value added tax that we have proposed in this composition at least three times? You've never given support. The value added tax, however, is paid by all, regardless of the monthly income they generate. I know. There's a lot of talk to you about what you're gonna do, but don't do anything. I am convinced that this step, which we have proposed by amending the Income Act, by increasing the benefits and reducing the income classes, is a step in the right direction that would raise wages, but not at the expense of the economy, but at the expense of smaller tax burdens. In our view, the country has huge reserves and enormous reasons for making up for this tax evasion.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u29	Replica, Mr. Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u30	Thank you. As we have predicted when the value added tax is treated. We are willing to talk about reducing it, but provided that compensation is provided for in the case of social tax. Above all, we have reserves in the taxation of capital, in the taxation of dividends and in the taxation of property, where, if you look at European scales, we are everywhere on the tail. However, I cannot agree with you in any way, since I have previously read you the figures on how much tax other countries in Europe collect, that our country has a huge reserve. When we look at the congregations and their funding problems, you can see that they are not there. If you look at a pension box that's a huge hole every year, you see that we don't have it, despite the fact that pensioners live. If you look at the medical checkout. We can agree that there is a need to deal with corruption in health care and so on, but these are not services that I do not know how well-funded they are. In fact, we'd need more money than more cuts. Additional cuts will not have a beneficial effect, but will cause even greater chaos. That is why we stand firm in the view that public finances need to be regulated so that the country and its services work as best as possible, since the citizens and citizens of this country will have the most of these. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u31	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Prepare Mr Primož Hainz and Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u32	Thank you, Vice President, for your word and for the opportunity to return to 2018 and to the real world and stop with populist statements. Just as I was preparing for this debate, I read an article on the Charm of Socialism, the minimum wage in Venezuela fell to one dollar, and only the communist elite lived well. So much for what the predecessor's ideological dreams are worth in a real case. I hope it is not the wish of this communist elite, where individual political economists are signed under the speech of colleague Luka Mesca, to be paid under one dollar and ruled by only them. Perhaps this is the intimate desire of one percent of the Slovenian population, but I think the reality is completely different. What is reality? I'm going to quote the bill so we don't talk about some weird numbers that this law would bring in practice. “The main solutions are to reduce the rates in all income classes by 2 percentage points and to increase the general income allowance to EUR 3 000 500.” I believe that, with all due respect for all citizens, an average citizen does not know what this means in practice. What would that mean? The reduction in rates in all income classes by 2 percentage points would mean a higher monthly net salary for an average wage worker on average 19 euros. And I will talk later about the actions of this government, and what that would mean in practice. The increase in the overall relief rate from the current 3 000 302 euros to 3 000 500 euros for an average wage worker amounts to an increase in the monthly net salary by 14 euros. 19 plus 14 euros is 33 euros, we probably all agree here. By reducing the rate of income and increasing the general benefit, an average wage worker would receive €33 more per month, with €396 more per year in the pocket of an average citizen with an average salary. Unlike the predecessor’s communist manifesto, who wants us all to be as rich in poverty — as it is said in Venezuela, one or two dollars, one dollar; yes, I read it right — would reward me for those who are above average. What would that mean? A worker with a double average salary would be paid 44 euros higher net monthly salary in all income classes and an additional 20 euros higher net monthly salary. So for a month of 64 euros, at an annual level of 768 euros. I've had enough of this communism in this country, where everyone should be the same, and this ideology, how only rich people's children can succeed. My parents weren't rich, they both had a pension together under 800 euros, and it's hard for me to be told how I represent this rotten capitalism and I don't know who. I do have a suitcase full of them. I had to work through a student every year for at least two months, and when I am a year old — because Japan has lost a little bit of my way — I left six months working again through a student at night and then someone tells me how we all have to be the same and how we all have to be the same. No! No! It is necessary to choose them, but not a rigid ideology: Let us do nothing, but let us have high wages. It's not working! For example, once again, Venezuela. It's not working. So I have to really say that I'm very allergic to hearing this kind of nebulosis. Before I throw myself into the second part, which also speaks of agriculture, I will touch some of the debaters. I think that Mr Secretary of State had a rather realistic view, but with the last two sentences, former colleague Christmas, you destroyed everything. You said, "The current financial consequences – 200 million." This is said by a government representative who, at the annual level, employs 8,000 people in public and state administration, who still has no idea what the financial structure of the second track will be, which negotiates with trade unions, at which heights, from 0 billion to billions, will give up. I bet, Madam Secretary of State, that given that three quarters of the public sector is very involved with the current coalition, that you will not stay at nothing, we will not give to the public sector, but you will give more than 200 million. That's what I'm hoping to bet on for the big stakes now. But no, you can do it there. My colleague Marko Pogačnik made it clear where money could be obtained if, of course, the coalition was eager and, above all, able to obtain it. I hope that the Secretary of State was engaged when he said that ad hoc were the solutions. We in the SDS Group or SDS party are, in fact, somehow always warning; for the first time, that we have too high taxes, and for the second time, that people do not have what they would owe them in terms of the contribution from these high taxes. Personally, I don't make fun of myself, but I really don't think feudalism was bad. 10% to the state and a high penalty if someone didn't give it to the state. What is this government doing, or this state pirate? More than 50% give to the state, if we're only close to the average, high penalties are if you're one day late, unless you're the Prime Minister of the Government who forgets to hand over the form, and then even applauds how you're an ordinary citizen and so on. There were also irregularities and injustices in feudalism, but look at the fraction, I think at least at the highest level of the feudal people there were not as much injustices and irregularities as there were in this mandate, when everyone was allowed to do so, but perhaps it was a member or someone close to this government coalition, or someone who is fighting to build an international policy on it. In short, as in feudalism they were first- and second-class there, we now have first- and second-class in Slovenia. With just one moment: Febdalism took 10%. How much does the state of Slovenia, which is supposed to be oh and even great, take from the citizen? And I will quote again, and if Mr Secretary of State thinks that the data is not being kept, I will be very happy to be corrected. “In Slovenia, a country of worker who applies only a general benefit in the form of contributions and taxes takes about 60% of his net salary at minimum wage. For the average wage, this percentage is about 80%, and for the two times the average wage, the country takes the employee's full net salary. In the case of salaries higher than twice the average wage, this percentage is increasing more progressively." And then we wonder why someone who makes little effort out of this average – that is, all the same, all the same in poverty – flees abroad, where he gets 3,000 euros of gross wages, almost 30% more – let's look at the neighbors – he pays more net wages, why young people run away from this window equally poor, why craftsmen run away from us and why all those companies, except those three that this government has approved of supporting with state money, the money of all of us. For Magna — With a chance of 20 million! On the other hand, we have companies based in Slovenia who are moving – where? Not in tax havens, as thieves usually do, but in neighboring countries, in Austria. The biggest Slovenian company is thinking – about what? That the seat will move — where? Slovakia. And what does that mean? End of payment of income to these workers in Slovenia. It's not like I'm gonna say yes, but then the local communities will have a little bit. Of course they will, each company, when it goes out, every young person, when he goes out, pays the income to someone else, not to the whole country! Another thing that is – well, I say here I wrote a lot about the United Left, but their ideal will be obvious or at least I hope that not only in Venezuela, but above all I hope that in Slovenia their ideology will soon experience a flood. But I'd like to refer to one more thing that touches this marriage, and I think it's been said too little. Perhaps more will be said in the next discussion when we talk about cadastral income, which is an increase in the threshold considered to be the so-called cadastral income. From 200 euros to 500 euros. What does that mean? That those farmers who don't even survive farming to be left alone. Because their contribution to the state budget is essentially going to be eliminated. If, for example, only a few officials working at the Ministry dealing with those from EUR 200 to EUR 500 of cadastral income would be less work, red tape would be less and would actually pay me cadastral income or calculate it and then put it in the next records for those who can survive from agricultural work. In our view, this limit is EUR 500. It is not again a neoliberal system in agriculture, when – alas, they are running out of time – the representative of the Left said, but it is a matter of essentially leaving the farmer who is only working as far as possible. Unlike some others who give to this farmer, I don't know what documents he has to fill out, which we give him the tax box, we want to leave him alone to work. In short, I don't know how my colleague Luke Mesca managed to include pensioners in the Income Act. I have a feeling that my colleague Luke Moon has no idea where he gets his salary or what his pension is. That is how I may even agree here when Members of Desus sometimes ask for the help of Levico in the vote, but they tear it off because they do not even know what the pension is. Here I feel for the members of Desus to appeal for the participation of a group that does not even know where it pays, and even less where it comes from. In short, we'd all have one of these marriages. What are people most allergic to when you ask them? First of all, it would probably be a large majority — health. However, I will not go to one other area that we have every week, or on an investigative committee, or we will try to alert the SDS Group by means of emergency meetings to what is happening there, so that nothing can actually be reduced, everything is prolonged. The other thing that all people are allergic to is what they have in their wallet. Once again, read everything before you vote, you will explain to your neighbors tomorrow, or where you meet people, how you want Slovenian workers, to everyone – both those in the real sector, to the private sector, if you want, or to those in the public sector – more. How do you want them to do better? With this bill, we have calculated what this would bring to every citizen in his wallet at monthly or annual level. This statement of how the Government has prepared measures binds me to only one thing; that everyone is actually intimately applauding this bill, only this law usually has one mistake – the first-signed Jože Tanko, the SDS Group. And that this law is a violation of the Constitution – I am interested in you, if you let this law go into further procedure and that it is a genuine legal service or anyone else who warns that this law is inconsistent with the Constitution if we change the final provision and write it instead of the year 1. 1. 2018 1. 1. 2019 – Are you able to accept it? That the unconstitutionality is spoken of not by coalition representatives, but by parties who hide behind justice and have quite a few decisions of the Constitutional Court that they do not want to solve, perhaps just for intercoms, private primary schools, higher education, and something else I have forgotten, you are silent. In short, unconstitutionality is evident by those who are in practice violating it. Finally, with regard to financial effects. I say, I hope you are prepared for some compromise if, of course, the legal profession assesses that it is not counted and, on the other hand, once again. Today I learned the essence of what we are divorcing and the SDS, given that then they also said in New Slovenia that they would support the marriage and everyone else. We and SDS New Slovenia want to give as many people as possible, and everyone else wants to give as many countries as possible. In short, the country will be the master who will show the people with the whip: we are the ones who have the power. And I remind you of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which says who has power in Slovenia. He's got people! According to our proposal for a law, every average citizen would have much more in his wallet than he has now, if he had the will of the people's electorate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u33	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Tillen Bozič, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. I would respond to a few questions, because I hope this will also help the debate, and I think it is important. And I'd start at the end somehow. The first thing was to say about the initiative that you are also giving is to raise the general relief that is not, say, excessively high in this – at least in this relationship, as some of the initiatives have already been in this house. It is a general relief, however, which has a very strong impact in the sense that the effects in millions and tens of millions of euros are already measured in the state budget. Now, say we didn't do it, or, let's just say that nothing was done, I wouldn't agree with it, and I'd say why. As far as general relief is concerned, we have gone in such a way that we have looked for ways with some measures that are, say, smart or targeted, to solve those problems that have started to arise and we have also seen them in people, including in the economy. The first thing we did in this regard was a certain shift, when even once the minimum wages were raised or when we changed those wage supplements, how we accounted for – it is said that they should not go to the basic salary – then there was a break that started to fall out. In fact, at the end of the day they had less income than they would have had, and then one move was made to raise, what is it, to take account of the increased overall relief. The second thing that was important in this place, however, was what is also true this year’s year, and it is said that moderation is being eliminated. What does this scrupulousness mean? Since you mentioned the euro earlier, I would say that we have an increased overall relief, a maximum of EUR 6 000 500, one rate lower than EUR 4 000 400. For one euro, when you fall between the stairs, you can lose more than 300 euros at the annual income level; those who have the lowest income or even lower income are the ones who have the lowest income. A little higher income than this – those with a relief of €4 000 400 and could also lose it For one euro came overall relief of €3 000 300 and lost slightly more than €170 at the annual level. [[…]] So, this is what we have been focusing on, it is said, on a certain structure of people who have been judged to be in an unfair situation that has been targeted by changes that have had the greatest impact on them. However, we have taken into account what may not be the case with your concept in this way, because if you increase the general benefit by 200 euros, the person with the lowest income – it is said that if he is taxed at 16%, he will gain some 30 euros at the annual level, but he who is in the highest grade will simply get 100 euros. This relationship, when we went looking for a relationship, we looked at it this way. As I have said, for those with the lowest income, a proposal has been put forward in the National Assembly, and the coalition has also supported it that we have at least resolved this matter to a certain extent. And the second moment was in the middle of the scale. So, you say, your general proposal, let's lower everything by 2 percentage points, it's every class. As far as possible, this problem was addressed when the scale changed and the 41% class split into two classes; one which is 2 percentage points lower, roughly as you now suggest, is said to have gone to 39, and the second class was 34%. This means that the middle part of over 1.6 average wages has also become decommissioned. That's just the middle class. So we tried to take certain measures, both in the lowest and in the medium range, which are reflected in the net income of all these people. Then I'd like to comment on some things. You said 8,000 and so many extra employees – not exactly that number! But there's one thing I'd like to give you a little heads-up. Since then, it is said that if we go ten years ago, ten years ago, we look at a little bit of the number of the State Administration, it is said that the narrower part, a little bit more than that office, as it is said, which now counts at just over 30,000, was more than ten years ago, more than 10% of that number. [[…]] So we're talking about 3,000 less people in this administration in some way, and everyone else is right, we're talking about additional jobs in education, in health care, in social services; where we're talking about services for citizens, where there's a flaw that people don't get enough or in the right way and there needs to be strengthened. [[…]] And that was getting stronger. After all, the police and so on. These were the priorities that were detected, and these were also worked out, so it's not like that, I don't know how sometimes there's a show, like a hundred new offices open up, put in a hundred ficus and a hundred people who don't work all day. [[…]] In fact, there has been an increase in the number where it is operational, and it has been rationalised where possible, but also sometimes too familiar, in the field of state administration, where this narrower apparatus is. From here on, it is certainly worth commenting on, for now this idea has appeared several times, or a comparison, with one feudalism, where the tithes have risen. That tenth of what he paid did not guarantee anything except that he could work on a foreign land and pay for it. He didn't have health care, he didn't have education, he said, he was toothless, if we put it that way, he lived, I don't know, 30, 35 years, he couldn't write, he couldn't read, he didn't even know how to account for the end of the tax, which is one of the grounds that people know what it's all about. He didn't have any social rights, he didn't have any pensions. He only introduced the pension to Bismarck, and only for military officers who then exceeded the age at which a man usually died for a few years. So these are innovations or acquisitions that are old — hard to say for a few hundred years. The construction of this part of the social state is said to be the work by which society progresses as a whole, which provides for a higher standard of life, prosperity and so on – they are not simply to be rejected. After all, they don't have security if we mention it. The police weren't meant to protect him, they were meant to get the peacock there and take away what he thinks is his; including his wife for the first night, if that's the case. So I don't know if it's the best system worth showing as a fair, smart and good relationship between how much someone pays and how much they get for these payments today. Because for what the country is collecting today, even though it sometimes turns out to be different or otherwise, there is a great deal of it. Maybe there's too little talk about it. As far as contributions and taxes are concerned. I'm having a hard time commenting on those calculations, so, from the bottom of my head, because I think you mentioned the conversion to net salary, so percentages come up a little bit higher. Well, statistics are interesting knowledge, and I know how to use it well, I have to admit, and I can show you something with us so exoticly. But O.K., okay. I wouldn't comment too much on that. But at least what we look at is comparative; we are competitive in low wages, we already have problems in the middle, but in the higher ones, we are also internationally found to be rather uncompetitive. There's been a lot of work done on these, too. For example, last year's change in force this year is said to be a relief that is intended for scientists and highly qualified or qualified personnel, which encourages somehow exchange, mobility, acquisition of new knowledge and sharing of this within the country, ours is said to move all together faster. So here's a few things. Also, those who have the lowest wage pay or do not pay the usual income or pay the social contributions in particular. Social contributions, however, are linked to rights. So it's not that it's a nonsatisfying state, because it takes away the rights it has. Medical, pension and so on. In addition, the Czech Republic was mentioned. The Czech Republic, for example, if we are looking at only One thing is interesting, it is also worth looking at, always across the border, to see if anyone is doing anything better, of course, but of which things are worse. [[…]] So you have to put these things in parallel, parallel and look at what it's all about, it's all about what it's all about. In the morning, when we spoke to the Committee on European Union Affairs, there was also a tax gap in VAT. We are one of the best countries in Europe. The Czech Republic is not one of these best countries, they lose a large part of VAT through various frauds and so on. This means that there is also little problem in the area of competition when we go to see, because some clearly operate under significantly more favourable conditions because taxes, including those that should be collected, are not collected. That's how there's pluses and minuses everywhere. In the tax system in particular, this should be taken into account in its entirety. On average, if we look at, as I have said many times, we are there at 37% – there is a share of taxes in GDP. In many countries, which you often mention here, Austria is at least 2 percentage points higher, Germany is so much higher, Italy is also higher and so on. So, in some areas, if you go to look, say, at wages, maybe they are more competitive compared to us, but in other areas, especially capital, taxation of property, significantly wilder – it's not a beautiful term, they kind of pick up more, significantly more than they would collect from us – and then they end up balancing. This is also what I said in the introductory address, in the position of the Government, that on average we stand firm, we are also competitive in terms of European as well as other international comparisons, but that we have certain imbalances. This is also acknowledged when we look at the taxation of work, and for this reason we certainly do, because I think that in the pre-election period it is necessary to discuss these matters, because at the end of the day, every party has to say what you are thinking about a future tax system, but it is certainly time-consuming to accept any changes. That's why the word ad hoc, because at this time it's hard, even in this house, and elsewhere outside it, to keep that sober head and to think in peace also professionally, with some view of the long term, is said to go further than the performance itself to the elections, so that at that time these main things may be strategically reconsidered, and then those who, of course, also get adequate support, take that policy quite independently. That is why we have embarked on one project, which I have also mentioned, with the OECD at this time. By May, I hope that this study will be prepared as agreed. It will look at how to thoroughly overhaul the system of labour taxation – we say, we are talking about income. Income is not even such a problem; you yourself have said very well that the main problem with us is essentially social contributions because there is a very heavy burden, and we will watch it all together. They will not only talk to the Ministry of Finance, they will talk to different stakeholders and stakeholders because they have also expressed this wish. In the end, one study will come out. I'm not saying that what I'm saying can benefit anything, just because they'll think it's wise. But I hope that whoever comes after me will take this as a single traveler to see how different stakeholders think, what international comparisons are and so on, and then, on this basis, implement or apply these thoughts, which you have or long-term orientations on how to set up a prudent and meaningful tax policy. Because tax policy is so very different. But the fact is that what happens to us on the income side must then also reflect on the expenditure. So if we reduce our income by 200 million euros, it means that 200 million euros of rights can go somewhere. And the most ungrateful thing is the right to cut. You know that, too. Only if I look at the mass of wages – what you mentioned – for the public sector: 2008 4.2 billion, 2009 4.6 billion. If we look at 2016, which is the last accurate data, we have 4.6 billion. So, we're talking about the same number, but somewhere along the way, there's been a jump. This leap took place for a certain reason. But it happened at the same time when it came to that big cut, like you said. So if you're making a big cut on the income side, you have to do a significantly larger cut on the expense line. Why is the threshold significantly higher? Since 2008 was a terrible conjunctura and at that time they should have been terrible surpluses, they were not. We are still reaping the result today. After we come to the point that now we need to breathe with full lungs and so on. If I express myself so little figuratively, if one percentage point or 1% of the deficit, we say that this is one meter, but that we were, say, at the worst times of 13 meters underwater, if we're still a little underwater, it still doesn't allow you to breathe with your lungs full because the result is known. Even the most breath divers drown just below the surface because their reflexes are drawn away and the point is that they have to be careful at the final stage. I think that the government – so as to look at the frameworks – has set a good framework, a stable framework, a clear framework, knows where we need to get to 2020, is a real fiscal consolidation, and everything is in line with that objective. Because, in the final stage, we all need to follow the following objectives when a roof direction is set, so that we all row in the same direction, because rowing in different directions means that you're turning in, turning around, turning around, whatever, but the goal is to move on. As far as these reserves are concerned and so on, as has been said, you described in 2008 what was going on. So there was more to the pensioners, there was more to the salary, there was more to it, for the third, there was more to it. This is an exemplar example of pro-cyclical policy. But we have said that the basis of this fiscal rule is so designed, and the European Commission is always saying this, including the IMF – the one that is a little bit closer to you – that's how the OECD talks all the time – the one that may be closer to the OECD – because everyone has some preferences, but they always say, do countercyclically not procyclical. So, when you're doing really good or good, put something aside when you're doing bad, put money in it because the system isn't meant for itself, but it's for people. Thus, people must survive in the first place and there must be some reasonable level of prosperity, regardless of where we are in the cycle. That's kind of why we're in these things I'm not going to say conservative, I'm going to say conservative. [[…]] So, every thing is done thoughtfully. Everything that has had an impact – I said that the impact is now, if we add up the real changes that we have been making in two years, this year will be reflected at an annual level of 130 million euros less inflows due to these changes, while overall there will be more because we have economic growth, employment and so on. [[…]] But given that benchmark we had before, so much less, and it was all very careful because we didn't move out of balance again. As you know, despite the fact that many say ratings are fiction, it's a fact that they affect a lot of things. And while we are good there, as long as the low-priced state is in debt, for a short time we even owe ourselves so that others can pay us to take our money, it is only such a time to flood money, of course it is very important – why – because then the whole economy is in debt even lower, the whole economy is also in debt, the lower all citizens are in debt, the cheaper they can rent the end of the mortgage loan, and the longer-term small differences in interest are very important. That is, when it is said, some stability in public finances also means or significantly contributes to the well-being of all together. Last but not least through the budget, substantially more than 100 million euros are now saved at the annual level at the expense of some very expensive bonds – then probably there were no other options when someone blackmails you and needs money, you take it – they have made a change of these and save themselves very much money now, and this money goes into those things that the government estimates are smart and reasonable. So it is part of a strategy, it is not an ad hoc decision or a decision. The tax system must certainly not be set up as a bid, especially in pre-election time down to collect as little as possible. If so, there must certainly be some thought on the other hand about what will happen, as I mentioned earlier, with rights and these matters. If this is offered in a package, this is a matter that can be a serious debate, but if not, such initiatives need to be taken, at least that is how I assess, perhaps put aside. And then – even now that we are doing some global reflection, what do we really do in the field of workload – give this proposal of yours along with it and say, okay, this proposal solves this. Is it better in some elements than the second proposal, because surely the economy will also have its own, the unions will have their own proposals, many others, even the professional public will make a lot of good proposals, but in the end it will have to be somehow folded together, recalculated and given to those whom we estimate to deliver the best result in the long run, and the best result is, of course, as much prosperity as possible for all citizens and citizens. As far as farmers or cadastral income are concerned. Here, however, I would say that already the system is so set up to capture, calibrated that it captures those who are estimated that they are not only living out of it or that it is not just their own consumption, but that they are actually doing business. So they deserve something out of it. Even if we compare numbers, let's say how many people benefit from these subsidies and so on, we get to this level somehow. So if we take the figure, that there are about 360,000 households in Slovenia, which have some agricultural or forest land and so on, from that point on, we can call it, in this category, to then tax, about a quarter. So all of those really try to leave out, focus on those with low incomes — most of them because they are flat-rate taxation. Previously, you said that there would be fewer administrations, less work at the level of the public state and so on, but it is still necessary to say that this is mostly automatic procedures, given that this is a flat-rate income and so on. So it's not the moment that, let's say, says good, but now it's the administration that makes it wise to do it. That's not the decision-making factor. Indeed, it is a decision-making factor where to set this limit to cover those who may be doing this as an activity, because if they are doing this as an activity, then there are other activities in that country, and there is always a balance to be maintained. That is to say, certainly in the agricultural field, positive discrimination applies in their favour, but not more than enough to establish excessive imbalances. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u35	Mr Primož Hainz has the floor. Ms Ludmila Novak and Mr Marijan Pojbič should be prepared. Mr. Hainz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I must say that those who have discussed before me, in particular some of the keynote speakers, have been very clear, today's debate is burdened with a pre-election period and, of course, there is a lot of demagogies and also some inaccuracies in this debate. This also applies to tax policy. I must say that, as far as the data is concerned, the one I am using is that in 2015/2016 profits in our companies increased by 94% and the average wage rose by 1.2%. This is, of course, the difference where I can then – at least that's how I think about these things, of course I have a clear opinion on how to solve these problems. That's what they say. There's a terrible guilt going on somewhere. That is why, of course, I must say, in Desus, we have decided to go to this correction of the injustices and, of course, we are taking up the pay system, we have supported Levica for 700 euros for the lowest wage. We supported the minimum wage because we think that this is a minimum – especially in a situation or situation where there are no workers and they are looking for them – this is already quite clear – but, of course, for those at the bottom of the salary scale, not for those at the top, such as some of the last SMC measures, from which we now even have a problem with the pay system, but these are those at the bottom that simply cannot survive with salaries of 500, 600 euros per month. But, above all, Desus advocates, and of course, himself, to remedy the injustices of the pension system. You know that for this so-called savings we gave the pensioners 8.4% and, of course, this has to be fixed in some way. We have partially succeeded, we have agreed in the government coalition, and we are also proposing in part an additional way every 2 years, the next 3 years by 2% and 1%, I think 1.1%, for the fourth year, to then come to the end of those 7 wholes and 8 wholes and so much percentages that we have lost in these years of so-called savings, that is to say savings. This has to be returned. Of course, I would like to ask my colleague Han – and someone else – today was colleague Han, a respected colleague who was talking about terrible money. That's 334 thousand euros a year. [[advertising from the hall]] This percentage of return. [[…]] Even when they ask me how much I have to pay, I don't say I have to pay in five months that much and that much, but in one year, I have to pay that much and that much in one month. And please don't mix apples and pears with these statistics. Of course, in 25 years, it would be even more significant than you said or stated. It's just about this data. That's 334 thousand euros. But as for other debates, I have to say that I am always, but I don't always react, but today I almost have to, when I've already answered. In fact, when Nova Slovenija talks about the fact that they are the only ones who are talking to the economy, of course, it could be somewhat doubtful. I must say that we also speak to the economists of Desus, you are not entirely alone, but this is a second debate. But of course you insist on some perfect liberalism as the most neo-liberal party at this time in the Slovenian space, which especially surprises me for Christians. Of course, we would sell everything to strangers – watch out, focus on foreigners! – and, of course, lower taxes. We'd lower taxes at any cost. So, zero. But then, when you finish the debate, you always say, but we think it would be good to have some social measures. It's not working out. It's not working out. There is somewhere to get for education, for health, for science, for protection, for culture, you have to collect taxes. You wouldn't have picked up an economist or an economy and given the workers a full salary. That's the logic that I have to say, all these years we've been sitting here with you in the National Assembly, I don't understand. I just don't understand because the math doesn't work. But that's easy, I'll say, simplification because otherwise some people won't understand. As for Mr Lisco, who started you again in feudalism, how wonderful this system was. First, I would remind you that in feudalism it was not so ideal. I must say that church dignitaries and secular gentlemen have lived well, and there is no doubt about it, but for those days they have lived well, and for those people who have given to the State who have given pressure to the Church, I do not believe that it was such a paradise. That's why the Church invented a paradise in another world, not this. So we wouldn't be philosophical about something that isn't. And 10% of taxes in feudalism – that's pure nonsense. They gave everything they had that I didn't go to that first night's right, which Mr Christmas said, and it's true. In fact, I was particularly struck by this because Mr Lisec started the debate by saying: “Let’s go back to 2018,” and then he talked about feudalism! That was the most, I'll say, screaming. But, of course, in this sense, I would also ask you to discuss these things, and I would not like to defend the Left when you say that if we go back in time, we would also return to space. And Venezuela is something that can't handle any comparison, and I don't know if it makes sense to burden the National Assembly with this level of debate what's going on in Venezuela. Then we could start with Africa or something, a little longer. In short, I think this pre-election demagogy is really big or I think it's too much. As far as specific data are concerned, you know, the last thing mentioned was how Eastern Europe as far as I read the latest data, GDP in Slovenia is higher than in the Czech Republic, Slovakia and in short, throughout Eastern Europe, Poland and so on. That's the data. Now, if you have any different I'm somewhere or I'm sure I've seen it, I don't have a quote right now, but I do, no matter what you want. [[…]] But the fact is, you have to admit, some of you have sat with me with these parliamentary delegations who are going to the National Assembly, they all said – years ago, I remember 2014, especially 2015 – they all warned us, do not sell all your property to foreigners. When we talk about Czechs, Slovaks and so on, I think this advice has been very well-meaning, because they are now re-created state property so that we can finance everything that we obviously cannot – I mean, what needs to be financed; education, health and so on and so on. [[…]] This has been told to us on these visits actually by everyone from this Eastern Europe and we had a lot of these contacts at the beginning, but now of course it's kind of, I don't know if it's a case or something, but somehow these contacts are a little bit [[…]] In short, I advocate that in this debate we use as little as possible such cheap demagogies and go to the real data as possible where we are at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u37	Replica, Mr. Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u38	More stuff. First of all, that the question of demagogism is spoken of by the Members of the party who, I think, have been promising the heavens to the pensioners for 15 years, but we know what a real pension is – it is a demagogy and it is to be seen to others. Secondly, Mr Hainz, although there is not yet a magnetogram of this session, I did not say that feudalism was one of the best, but that indeed feudalism was something solid, it was good. 10% – well, let's leave these small levies – were given to the feudals or farmers to the feudals, and Mr. Hainz said they gave everything. That's a second extreme. I quickly looked at what feudalism is and what part it was, and what I learned in doing so, I must say that I was quite good in history or what I remembered, but it was even more wrong. And once again, what did they get at that time from their ruler, the emperor, who owned all things, as now the emperor owns all things, and divides us according to his present-day grace of God? They've got a lot! And order, at least as equal as we have it now. And for this difference, which is given today by someone for a minimum wage, not to say, who with an average salary or a double average salary – what does he now get, and what should those at the time of feudalism get? I am sure that if we now did a survey of the Slovenian people’s preference for feudalism – let us put aside all these solidarity moments that I believe were also in feudalism – people would be much more confident that they will defend themselves and decide what to give the country. And not just ten percent, we can settle for a third, but people will still be happy. This, however, is to give an average net salary to the State at twice the average wage, but what we are talking about is the wrong thinking of a certain part of the policy that young, educated people are pushing abroad. Therefore, here is a replica of Mr Hainz to read the magnetogram of what I said and, on the other hand, Mr Secretary of State, we always compare ourselves with our neighbors. In the draft law or draft law we have, we have said and also recorded what is the case in Austria, what an Austrian worker for a minimum wage, with an average salary or a double average salary gets gross and what it amounts to online. Take a look at the Austrian model and look at the Slovenian model and why our people are wondering why Austria is so much better. He's got less social security, less health care? No, it's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič. Here you go, Mrs. Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u40	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. All those debaters that I wanted to comment on are now not in the Chamber, it's obviously the principle again: hit and run, and then you won't hear a thing about the answer you got to the debate. And I'm going to start with Minister Andre Bajuk, who, of course, can no longer defend himself, but only at the time of his death did he admit that he was the first minister to reduce taxes and raise pensions for the people. If Mr Hainz is talking about pre-election demagogism, we know which policy in our country is the largest pre-election demagogist, but we don't have to say a name, and we all know who that is. Those who have long since promised thousands of euros in pensions are not yet there. And he's been sitting in all the governments since the year — I don't know, but 1998 seems so far. Not him. His client, Desus. And Mr Han told Bajuku that he had reduced taxes and that the country had been deprived of one billion euros. But people have been better. At that time, the state established all the criteria for us to adopt the euro. It has even been declared the best financial minister of the year – the European! And public debt at that time, in 2008, was 21.1% of GDP or 8.2 billion. Then, in 2008, the government of Borut Pahor or the government takes over the SD and the minister of SD, the finance minister, becomes France Križanič. And what happens to public debt? From 8.2 billion to 16.4 billion euros! So from 21,1 % to 46,6 % of GDP. Mr Han has told us, or Minister Bajuk, where the one billion that he has not recovered is now. Now we see that this difference between public debt is quite a billion more. Where did those billions go? Then what happened? Of course, this public debt has grown, we now have about 30 billion euros and we are paying about a billion euros a year. What's in it for us? The interest is repaid for a public debt which has been largely created by the SD. We know that the financial crisis has begun, and yet there have been no real tools and weapons against this financial crisis and public debt has increased. And then says Mr. Han that the right hand only cuts the finances. Yeah, why did they have to be cut? Because they over-expenditured them, shared them in wrong projects, invested in more jobs in bureaucracy. I say that work should be paid, that efficient bureaucrats should be properly paid and well paid, but that there is no need for additional employment of bureaucrats, as is the case at the time of this government. Therefore, the next government had to introduce the ZUJF in 2012 to reduce bureaucracy and to combat all these financial crises caused by the previous government, including the SD, by Mr Han. Speaking of social policies of the Social Democrats. In the days of Pahor's government, they took away their pensions, and most of them were women farmers who spent their entire lives working, and you know that farmers at that time were not even able to pay their pensions, and these women had 181 euros a month's pension. EUR 181 per month taken by the Pahor government, SD minister, SD, to these women. So much for solidarity and social policy SD! There was a meeting of the Managers' Association yesterday. The guests of these small round tables, the talks, were also our finance minister and the minister of the economy. And what did the Minister of Economy say? I totally agree with him. I know that he knows as a manager, what kind of measures would be necessary, and probably two coalition parties are holding him back quite a bit. What did he say? That contributions should be reduced for those jobs that enable – i.e. jobs with higher added value. We are talking about the development cap because we know that, with the same gross salary, there is too little net pay in Slovenia, so young people who are educated are leaving. Why is this important for minimum wages? Because they create higher added value and even the company continues to attract, so no minimum wages are needed. Yesterday, Dr. Jožica Rejec was the main prize in her life's work and said: "With us, minimum wages are not a problem, because most probably have an excess because they invest in development." So, it's useless to point out, we want higher pensions, we want higher minimum wages. I agree that pensions are too low, that people can't live, that minimum wage is hard to survive. I fully agree, but the solution is not that we are increasing pensions and increasing minimum wages, we are increasing public debt with these increases, but that we are investing in development, in research to get top companies, to allow legislation, tax legislation, such that the economy can work, breathe, invest, and thus provide better wages, higher contributions, more employment and so on. But, simply, these mathematicss have not been dealt with in both SD and Desus. As I said, I'm for higher wages, I'm for higher pensions, and Bajuk made it possible for them as finance ministers. The pre-election demagogy that Mr Hainz was talking about most often happens in this party and also in the SD party. If you have been in the government for so many years and so many years, you too are guilty and responsible, regardless of who was the minister of that government – the finance minister or who led the government. You're guilty. A few months before the elections, you're not guilty of anything, we're guilty of low wages, low pensions, and you're sitting in different governments all the time. So, demagogy at its peak, but with you. And you're telling us we support neoliberalism and capitalists! I don't think there are many capitalists in New Slovenia, but there are working people who know that they have to earn a decent and responsible job in their lives. They don't usually teach their children abroad, but if they do, they do it for their money. We know who in the past trained their children abroad. Those who advocate public schools, while those who advocate public education, send their children elsewhere. It's another demagogy we hear all the time. We will no longer achieve a higher standard with social assistance, but also with increased productivity. In Slovenia, 20% is lower than the average in the European Union, fortunately at least 20% higher than in the Balkans, and in those countries that you have talked about having very low taxes. Yes, they certainly want to attract investors with low taxes, but if productivity is so low, they probably also find that it is not worth going to where this productivity is not achieved. The pensions could be better if we didn't cover the hole again, so the holes in our banks, we know, about five billion. If it were not for so much money in Switzerland or in the tax havens, you were in power for most of the time and could have prevented, controlled or otherwise ensured order, justice, honesty in that country. Well, you didn't. So don't say it's our fault, but it's our minister who cut people's taxes and was a very low public debt!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u41	Replica, Mr. Primož Hainz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm going to use this replica, not to politicize it, although I was nicely named, but of course I did something stupid. I said 334 thousand, but it's 334 million a year, which means fixing the pensioners' injustices if they went back to the level I was talking about earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr. Marian Pojbich, you have the floor. You will receive the word of Mrs Anja Bah Žibert and Mr Igor Zorčič. Here you go, Mr. Marijan Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I don't know what else we can actually do in the Slovenian Democratic Party under the circumstances. Everything we do is wrong. The reason that some things are not right at the right time is once that the elections are close, secondly, I do not know what the thousand and one reason was when we remember how many laws have been tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party in this mandate. Practically all rejected, but a million reasons. We have now tabled a law that seems very important to me, then I will say 2, 3 things why, and I think my fellow Members, when they have discussed it, have made it very clear what the intensity is, what it is, why we decided to bring this law forward and so on. I listened today because I've been in here all along, discussing the extreme left. I must say, the positions he advocates are extreme, they no longer belong to a normal system of democracy. When I listened to Luke Mesca in his discussions, he always stressed — and never asked himself the key question — that there is no problem, we are about sharing that we give. We, too, are in the Slovenian Democratic Party, to share and give, but of course it is necessary to be aware of who it is that creates it and how it comes into the state budget. If you're a man who doesn't have a minute's work, as I've said many times before, who you've never even felt what it means to have a company of your own, you don't know how the real sector works. Today, when I look at, in this government, the government coalition is the vast majority of people who haven't worked for a minute in the real sector, who go to them as small gods from the very beginning, because there is a system – thank God they were in the right part of the system. It is said in a party that allowed them to have privileged positions regardless of whether they had primary education, but they had, I don't know – because I know from their environment how things happened – at some point came with primary education to the position of head of a story where he had no idea what it was, and so on and so on, because he was in a party. And precisely that, most of the coalition that is now sitting in here, are from the left-wing part of Slovenian politics and were your predecessors, parents or whatever they say very strong in politics or in colleges and so on. And today you don't know what it means to function in the real sector, because you haven't spent a minute of your working time in the real sector. And they want to salt their brains here! And you don't know how much money is made! Perhaps there is someone among you who is an entrepreneur — I know someone — and he knows how money is earned and how easy it is to share money, even if you work in such a way that you cannot judge what is right and what is wrong to give at a certain time. Best of all, if anyone is aware of this problem, they're entrepreneurs and craftsmen. They know when to save and when to spend. In our country, however, this is not how we can talk because this is not the case, except for 2004-2008, when this country was led by the Slovenian Democratic Party, then along with New Slovenia. Now, ladies and gentlemen, since the honourable Vice-President is here and I have listened to the debate and position of his head of the delegation, I am very disturbed by his debate, slowly more and more – since I am an honest man, I can tell the entire Slovenian public how long his company or his parents' company has been attached to state resources. Let the public know. Let these people tell the Slovenian public that Slovenians and Slovenians will know who is the one who is super-living at the expense of taxpayers. Let them say, nothing wrong, they have nothing to hide, because it was all revealed, because it was in the newspapers and so on! Let people say that people will know who represents their interests here in this House and how honest individuals in the SD are. Let them say it! I'm not saying they're all the same, they're fair and they're different. That's why I'm saying that you have a lot of honest left-wingers in the Left or even in the SD who don't have any of these privileges, not even a picket line, just to give them a voice. I hope these people get that someday. Once they figure it out, they'll say stop wanting, stop elitism. Which has now happened in the SMC. Now they see what elitism means. They have experienced this and will experience it in the elections and will see that people are not naive enough and stupid enough not to recognize this story, despite all the pressures of the media that have been bought and paid. Nevertheless, people will start to think realistically and this moment will come, this moment Slovenia is approaching and thank God it will come to this. Because from demagogism, really from demagogism and big words no one can live on, but they can live on what creates the real sector. We also need the state and public sectors, but only in the part where they work honestly and work for the benefit of people. Not then that they are there to prevent poor citizens and citizens from having a thousand more and one more problems just because some in the state and public administration deserve to be paid. They prevent people from reaching their goals. I'm not talking about building permits and so on and so forth. Now, just a few questions to get back to the law, 'cause I got a little over it. I have a question for the government and the coalition, tell me why highly educated young people are leaving Slovenia. Why do you think? Why?Oh, my God! And more and more! Because they don't have a stimulating environment, they don't have stimulating wages to stay here. Slovenia has no chance of getting through without a highly educated staff. There is no way to participate in European developed countries if there is no highly educated staff to be able to transfer high technology and all that is necessary to make things work and that we are competitive. That's one thing. Then I ask you why more than 20,000 migrant workers work in the Republic of Austria. Have you ever asked yourself in this government, in this coalition, why? And then you burden them with paying the difference in tax in Slovenia. Have you ever wondered? Because there's normal, logically they get more nets than here. They definitely get a higher net salary because the salary is less taxed. Up to a thousand 200 euros in Austria you practically don't pay your income and so on, so they went there. And then there's the other part, which is the social moment -- because they didn't get a job here. And if these 20,000 people were here, tell us what the number of unemployed would be in our country. And I wouldn't be so proud of this one. I'll say, in the nicknames, the inflatable leftist government and this coalition. Then I ask you why this government has hired 8,000 500 people in the state and public administration when you say that you are acting rationally and that you are using budget resources rationally. Where are the reserves? Where's that now? Why do we have 33 billion debt, or about how much? Why?Oh, my God! Why, now, if you're saying that fat cows, that everything is cool, oh, and even that there's billions more money in the state budget than last year, does the state debt not go down? Why?Oh, my God! I'm asking you why. Why does it get bigger if you're so good at mastering things? This is where the expenditure increased by at least €250 million per year for these 8,000 500 people. And no one gets hurt. And this government says it's great. Now you can only imagine if there will be a situation where there will be no more fat cows I ask you why every day we have more people below the poverty line if you work so well if so much money has gone into the state budget more than before. [[…]] I also ask you why Slovenian pensioners make you a direct lunatic when you raise the most vulnerable pensions by one euro, two euros, three euros, and the privileged live as gods. For them, between €80 and €100 and so on. Why is that? Do you know how many companies have moved to Slovakia and the Czech Republic? From my environment, Styria, it's a very large number. I know them personally, and I asked them why. He says: “It is a more stimulating environment. Taxes are lower." That's why. So we have to ask ourselves why, and so on. And now we go back to what is the essence of our marriage, less of a country, more of a people. This is the intention of this law and this must be heard by the Slovenian public. Less country and more people. People treat their money more economically than the country. This country, that I will not say – you know that it treats taxpayers' money extremely irresponsibly. Only this information, in last year's oasis of glass from this country around – this is written by, I think, one journalist, because I have saved somewhere – a billion 300 million euros, one year earlier between 800 and 900 million euros, and a year ago, all under the rule of Mira Cerar, I think, about 600 million euros. It's written, it was written on Twitter and so on. Yeah, look! But we can't follow what we wrote in the marriage? There's billions on one side, they're going somewhere, and who makes it possible? This government and this team that does nothing to stop this story. As the main objective of this law, we have written: "The main objective of the proposed law is to reduce the tax burden on income from work or tax burden in Slovenia. This can be achieved by lowering rates in all income classes and increasing general income relief. The tax burden on labour income will increase the net wages of workers. At the same time, the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy will be increased, unemployment and the scope of the grey economy will be reduced." In her reply, the government wrote the following. To find out for yourself that in some cases he agrees with what we write in explanation. And what did she write? She wrote on page 2: "However, the data on the economic structure of taxes and contributions (work taxes, consumption taxes, capital taxes and property taxes) show that the economic structure of taxes is not the most favourable in terms of competitiveness, as it deviates from the average of European countries due to the over-the-average burden of work on social security and consumption contributions." Dear colleagues, what are we talking about today? The government wrote this in its position! And, dear coalition, have you even read the government's position? Has anyone read what it says here? And then she wrote: "The highest share of social security contributions in Slovenia is made by employees 19% and employers 13.9% in labour costs and 9.8% in income (the tax margin totals 42.7%). In comparison, for such a person in the OECD Member States, the tax margin shall be 36 %." So in Slovenia almost 7 percentage points are higher. You wrote that down in the government. Yeah, what are we talking about here today? That things have to be changed around here, that they don't! To make the economic environment healthier, more competitive and so on and so on. Dearly beloved, I am personally convinced that this law that we have tabled is well-intentioned, not having anything to do with the politics of any party, I am sure that it is because we want to help people. On the one hand, to get higher net wages, to make life easier, to live better, and on the other hand, that this wasteful country will not continue to spend taxpayers’ money in the way it does. Now, just for a little while before the end, there's one more piece of data that I think is still important to people and to this government as well. And you'll also know why we filed this marriage, including the numbers. Now let's go. The minimum gross salary is 804,96 euros, the income, the deposit is – i.e. the minimum wage – 56,29 euros, the social contributions paid by the worker from his salary, 177,90 euros, the contribution to pension and disability insurance is 124,77 euros, the contribution to health insurance 51,20 euros, the contribution to employment of 1.13 euros and the contribution to parental protection 0,80 euros. So from the gross minimum wage of everything I've just counted, the worker pays. So the worker gets a minimum net salary from what's his gross salary, 570.77 euros. Then the employer pays a social contribution of 129,60 euros, a contribution to pension and disability insurance of 71,74 euros, a contribution to health insurance of 52,81 euros, a contribution to employment of 0,48 euros, a contribution to injuries at work of 4,27 euros and a contribution to parental protection of 0,80 euros. The employer costs a worker with a minimum wage of 934.56 euros, while the worker receives 570.77 euros. Somebody else tell me it's not about, I'll say, the devouring country to the cup! The worker for a minimum wage of EUR 804,96 will end up receiving EUR 570 net salary. The total cost for the employer is 934.56 euros. For a minimum wage totalling 4 000 275.72 euros per employee, for an average salary of 9 000 371 and so on. Now just let someone else tell me that this is a normal country. That it's a normal state! The country almost gets more in its state budget than a minimum wage worker. So when we talk about minimum wage. I think it's a lot of extras, though. In Austria, up to a thousand 200 euros, you practically don't pay a cent of income, and we are talking about how we are following these trends, how our country is progressing. Look, what we're doing is weakening the competitiveness of this country and working for the people of this country. This is the philosophy of socialism — that you make people as slaves so that you can control them in such a way. Because if you can't buy more than a kilo of bread and one milk, then you have it under control. God does not allow any craftsman to have any assets, for he is a dangerous factor in the state. This is the philosophy and ideology of socialism and communism, and that's why we're here. Because we came from a country like this, most of those who sit here today in a coalition have it in their brains. That's not right, and that's wrong. You don't understand, you have no idea what entrepreneurship means, and so on and so forth, that I won't talk about it. But not all of them. But not everyone, that's what I said before. There are exceptions to the interfaces that I personally value very much because I know them, but most of them are those that have never done one minute in their lives in the real sector and are now assessing what is fair and what is unfair. The matter here primarily flies on — it's known to whom. On the SD and on Desus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u45	Mr Tilen Bozič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. I would just add a few things, as before, I think it is important for the debate. Because, Mr Pojbič, you mentioned what it was like to pay a minimum wage, what are the burdens and so on. One aspect is also important – we have some solutions that other countries do not have. Otherwise, it is a treasurer, but only when things are calculated, with minimum wage, however, what it means is that, say, transport to work and lunch are not included in and are essentially gross for the net. This means that if we compare ourselves with other countries, as far as the country picks up, all we have to do is put this together. That's one small supplement. The second part that seems more important to me here is one thing that often happens to us to forget about it, and this is true for everyone. I think that one of the key things that we should look out for in these debates is to start talking, I think, about the net available income. Since one thing we forget very often is that our country – on the one hand, we look at minimum wages, it says with income not so much, but contributions are high, then on the other hand, if we look at net available income, it is – a bunch of transfers. This is the thing that, for my concepts, even when it comes to debate, you have to give it all together, look at what's going on, and see the imbalances. In fact, certain imbalances are even increased by the way we have planned transfers at certain points, which is one particular feature. For this reason, it seems to me that it is good for future discussions, that these numbers might be added to them, because then people will get a sense of what they have in their possession. If we look at what the municipalities contribute to them, if someone has, say, a minimum wage, say, one couple, both minimum wages, and that they have one child, two, for example, one in five at the kindergarten table, we can pay more than one who is already on average wages, what he pays. Then we have some other transfers, from children's allowances to the right to lunch and so on. And when we put all this together, then we can only get a sense of what you've somehow exposed yourself to how much the country takes from it. Because, on the one hand, it is true, from him — it is hard to say to someone who receives a minimum wage, how much the state takes from him, because he who pays the contributions is his rights. Then there is the second part, the solidarity and social policy, or some social network that provides transfer. There will certainly be a lot more to say here. I expect, as I mentioned earlier, that cooperation with the OECD, that we will also get internationally comparable data so that we can really start talking about this as constructively as possible. In some other things, what you mentioned wouldn't go too far. But you said, and we can see for ourselves that it's a high tax mark, and that's true. That is why one of the basic guidelines of the Government is the decommissioning of work. In those parts where it was possible to do this in some reasonable way, that the fall in revenue would still be lower than what actually brings us the economic cycle, this has also been done. Therefore, additionally, if there are no other measures on the other hand in terms of infringement of rights and so on, we therefore consider this inappropriate. However, the fact that the problem is not in income is a problem in social contributions. But social contributions not only how much you pay, but also how much you get out, how sustainable the cash register is. Some Members today have yourself stressed that there is a transfer to the pension register, and you know how the health department stands, and there are many other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u47	Procedural or replica? Replica, Mr. Pojbich, and then Mr. Marko Pogačnik. Mr. Pojbich, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u48	Dear Mr Tillen, one question as to when you were talking about decommissioning. I very much ask you to tell us what you have done for citizens and citizens in three and a half years in this area and how much of what you have just said has been left in your pocket. I'm asking you to say that with your numbers. And the other thing. When we talked about how much the state takes from the minimum wage, and you talked about those social issues that someone might get, because it has a state of affairs in one way or another with a minimum wage, it is almost impossible for them to survive, so I'm just saying this, we're talking about salaries and we're not talking about social allowances. We're not talking about that. Today this law is not meant for this. I am sure that if people got the right amount of salary, no such social allowances would be necessary and the country would still be sufficiently social. Because what's the key? The most important thing is that people can live normal from their wages. What do you think is nice for people to walk around these social groups and ask them to wait at one centre and so on for them to survive?Oh, my God! What do you think that's nice for them?Oh, my God! We are obliged, policy, to create an appropriate economic environment where employers will work, create higher added value and can share higher wages. When will you understand this philosophy, Mr. Tillen Christmas and all those on the left?Oh, my God! When will you understand that?Oh, my God! When you understand this, you will see, this is the most social state that people can live off their wages. And if they have a higher net salary, they will also pay more in their pension and medical bills and will also have higher pensions. When will you understand that this is the true philosophy of the social state, not what you say?Oh, my God! Please, let's be sober! How long will someone there from the Slovenian Mountains, I say myself, a farmer from the Sweet Top here have to explain what is crucial to this society if we want to move forward?Oh, my God! How long and how many times will I have to say it here? These great men, these doctoral titles ultimately mean nothing to you because you have no idea about practice! And that's why things are the way they are. So I ask you to start to think practically and listen to those who create and then share what they have created in such a way that you will all be happy together. Not one lived as gods, but the other ended up with 300 or 400 euros in pension. This is the current power, this is the current state, and this is the past rule of these socialists, and I will not say any governments. A sad truth for the Slovenian people. That's why we're here. Instead of being small Switzerland, I think we are worse than all the other countries in the Balkans. It's sad.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u49	Representative of the proponent, did you want a replica? Tylen Christmas? [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, no. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, representative of the proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u50	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I like what you've opened. Net income available. Now I like that you've opened up this subject and you're aware of this problem. I am convinced of something that the worst family living in Slovenia today has two average wages because you are killing the one who wants to do fair work in Slovenia today. Seriously. And by doing so, you are jeopardizing the entire public system and the entire public finances. Dear Secretary of State, are you today prepared to tell the public the net available income of a family that has two average wages and has two children in kindergarten and a comparison with a family where both parents are unemployed and have two children in kindergarten? People who work from 8 to 12 hours a day get up at five o’clock in the morning, go home at six o’clock, which is why the family is not settled as it should be, and lunches and everything else is arranged, living almost significantly worse than those who are on social assistance. Look, I say social assistance must be, but I hope to say that there is socialism in Slovenia, but the question is whether this social assistance is fair. I'm sure it's not, and it's not fair. You kill this relationship between those who receive social transfers and those who do what is right. This is the biggest mistake of leftist governments, not only in Slovenia, but also abroad. And today you are encouraging young people to flee abroad, thereby reducing their contributions to both pension and health care, people have to seek employment across the border in Austria, and then in Slovenia they receive additional bills from Furs. Because tax policy in Slovenia is inadequate. Dear Secretary of State, why do those who are migrants working in Austria today receive enormous sums to pay? Why? Because Slovenia has significantly higher taxes than Austria. Only because of this. And I would really like to see, Madam Secretary of State, let this case be said, the income available and all the transfers they receive. In my opinion, this difference is minimal and decreases from month to month. And seriously, you're killing that extra motivation to work. For one who goes to calculate today what is worth more to him will come to know that he is better at home. But you're killing public finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u51	Mr Tilen Bozič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. There were some questions. What we did, because it was – and if I say it with the numbers, I'll say it like that, because it is. [[…]] First thing, as I said at the beginning, we changed the income scale. It is said that we divided one class, 41% into 34 and 39, and we basically did it in that middle class, if I put it this way, a little bit more space and it weighs about 56 million euros. There has been such an assessment that it will come less into the state budget under this heading. The second was an increase in the income threshold for eligibility for additional general relief. This is what those who have the lowest income, for an additional 300 euros, then that step-by-step relief, as you know, ended up with about 14 million more euros. As you know, it was finally introduced also, we can call it Christmas, 13. That was with 1. 1. 2017 to 70 % of the average free income wage, this part, or the new amendment made by the coalition Members, does not pay up to 100 % of the average wage. With regard to these effects, it was estimated at around EUR 45 million at the time, it is only as far as the 13th salary is concerned. The fact is that this will be significantly higher, mainly because it is now at 100%. Because even when the economy sees an opportunity, it adapts, which is also a legitimate right to somehow calibrate your tax base in such a way that you pay as much as the country does. So all of this together, and also those other things that were when we talk about this special scheme for posted in and out of the country, those who have more than 1.5 average wages are talking about professional staff or scientists. From here on, another smaller thing has happened, but according to figures, if I somehow summed up on the figures that were accounted for in 2015, some 2016, it is estimated that this would now be about 130 million euros at the annual level. I also assess, in terms of growth, the adjustment of the economy so that in 2018, if nothing were to change the system, it would probably come to the state treasury between €150 million and €200 million more from the income line. That's how much less will come. That's the workload we're talking about. That we have done nothing is not true, but the fact that we have done it in the context of those gabarites, as the Government has set itself a nuclear policy, a consolidation of public finances, and it insists. As far as the cross-border workers and migrants you mentioned were concerned, they were forced to raise that meal, which is recognised at the daily level, that cost of 6.12, by 80%, says around €10. At the annual level, when you multiply it times 200, this relief is roughly, if we look at it like this, 2,000 euros. Then you have some other things, a confession of costs. The understanding of the Ministry of Finance and Financial Administration was slightly different with regard to the possibility of applying costs, so the law changed that flexibility had ceased to have an effect, saying that they could have been applied backwards with 2017. But then the court, what they said, also attached to their approach to it. As a result, open procedures shall also be taken into account prior to this period in cases of self-declaration, transport costs to work, snacks and so on. Now we can say that there have been certain movements. High payments usually occur mainly when there is no declared income, it is said between the years, but this is significantly different a few years ago, as these costs are also lowering and so on. But it is a fact – because you asked how many tax rates there are – I tell you here as State Secretary responsible for taxes if we had an Austrian average salary if the economy provided Austrian wages, I guarantee you that we would raise a substantial amount of general relief. Because if you have an average salary of EUR 3 000 600 in the country – we know where we have it – then you can afford to finance this system. And if we look at the structure of that salary, 3,000 600 euros, it's not just in the country, it's also in the economy. This is where we're gonna have to move forward together. We're just a little behind, all of us, we'd like to get to the average as soon as possible, bounce from there. I think that the politicians set up by this government – in particular in terms of stabilising everything together and now there is some development policy – will lead to us once and for all being there. This, of course, is the goal of all of us together, I believe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u53	Replica Mr. Marijan Pojbič and then representative of the proposer. Mr. Marijan Pojbič, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u54	Dear Mr. Tillen Christmas! If this government were rational, if this government were to think in the right direction, it would not further employ 8,000 500 people in the state and public administration and increase the expenditure from the state budget. Instead of lowering the state and public administration by 1% per year, he does the opposite. That is why we will never come under such rule to what the Austrians have. Because they have a comparable state administration that the economy passes on, and we do the opposite. But we are prisoners of state and public administration, and this is what it does and produces socialism. Here we are different and here the view of the Slovenian Democratic Party differs, but I have already explained before what social means to us, what it means to us that they are satisfied. And it doesn't matter which country there are those who can make enough money to live a normal life. With us, I hope it comes to this moment. And then it will come in the very light of the future. This change must come, the heads must change, but now they are being taught as they are. It is therefore necessary to make a change in this society – that those who have ever worked in an economy who have a sense of what it means to produce and then spend. Because it's very easy, as I said before, to use if you've never been in a position where you would have created, because then you don't know what that means. Unfortunately, there is an extremely large difference between the right middle and the left. For the people, it's a philosophy of right-wing thinking. This is the right way for people to have higher wages tomorrow and to be able to live on their wages, but not to wait for this social transfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u55	The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u56	Dear President! If I said earlier that the Secretary of State might have taken a step in the right direction, I'm sure he's kicked in the right direction now. To say here: "Let us pay the average Austrian wages to the Slovenian economy..." Dear Secretary of State, if the Slovenian economy pays the average Austrian salary under these conditions that exist now, please tell us how much gross it will have to pay. Slovenia is the only country in the world that knows gross gross income. You've been taxed twice. Slovenia could have significantly higher salaries, workers' salaries could have been significantly higher if Slovenia had summarised the Austrian income scale. Does that hold? We should give this case. Not that you say, “Give, the economy, pay, the average wages will be the ones they have in Austria.” Do you know what the burden would be? In the economy, all companies close in one month! I mean, it's really sad now that you're making comparisons like this. There's competition today, it's on the market today! What would the cost of working then be for Slovenian companies compared to one in Celovac or in Beljak? You can tell me why in Austria, in Celovac, the price of a thousand litres of heating oil is 150 euros cheaper than in Kranj, Ljubljana, Murski Sobota, Škofja Loki. Why? Let me tell you. So what are you going to do in this direction? This government of yours cares much better for economic migrants than for an honest Slovenian worker, and this must be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u57	Secretary of State, would you like a word? Mr. Tillen Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u58	Looking at the illustrations I gave earlier, I also said that if we had an average salary like that in another country, it would probably be the same in the north. Because the goal is to balance according to GDP, according to earnings and so on, the whole tax model. In Austria, no matter what you say, they collect 43% of taxes, according to GDP taxes represent 43% and in Slovenia 37%. So, if we look at it, we have calibrated more favourably, but of course there are differences in the development of countries. Of course we would like to approach them, but it takes, as you know, some time. As for the price of fuels, we are among the three countries in this Europe that make the best use of their geostrategic position, including fuel prices. These are Luxembourg, Austria, Slovenia. This is a triumvirate that best exploits this position. We calibrate like this all the time. But it's a fact that we haven't changed excise duty in two years and so. They are where they are, and all that affects is just the market price.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u59	Representative of the proposer, Mag. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u60	Your government has doubled its spending on oil derivatives. I asked you why a thousand litres of heating oil in Austria is 150 euros cheaper than in Slovenia. That's all you have to say to me. Dear Secretary of State, if your government did not employ 8 000 people in public administration if it did not recapitalise the Slovenian State Holding for EUR 200 million, if you did not recapitalise the DUTB for EUR 50 million, if you did not have so many public agencies, if you successfully manage state assets, if you successfully manage health institutions, I am sure that taxes could be substantially lower in Slovenia than they are. However, one change is needed and this change is said to be only another composition of the government and a change to the right-centre government, which means the victory of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u61	We continue with the debate, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, followed by Mr Igor Zorčič and Mr Andrej Cuz. Here you go, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. I will go a little further back, and it is not that much longer, given that there is virtually no debate today by the coalition Members. Let me stop at Levica first. Sometimes we can laugh at their debates, but sometimes these ideological views are already beyond common sense, and then I too decide to say some things, and if I do not warn citizens and citizens of what such an ideology brings. It brings the umbrella of the horrors under which they live in North Korea, brings the conditions that they live in North Korea, where children go to schools and meet bodies on the way, where they go to schools fed and do not know if they will come home alive, but when they come home, they look at the neighbors and see an empty apartment, because people have taken the gods to where. When things go too far in this ideology and the call for communism, there was also a member of Desus, which I think is when we have to say bob beans. In systems like North Korea and Venezuela, this regime is passed into every molecule. Unfortunately, even in Slovenia, some of these molecules have not yet been decomposed. It's time to end this terminology. Initially, I have listened to the representative of the Ministry, the Government of Mr Bozič, whom I appreciate in the sense that one of the few which at least discusses when it comes to various proposals, otherwise we usually have silent representatives of the Government there, at least he responds. However, I think it has been slightly dropped when he stated that in this case it is an ad hoc proposal from the Government, because if there is anything in this country ad hoc, then there is this government, because it is run by a party that ad hoc was created a month before the elections. Without experience, without the right program and therefore the solutions it brings are not good. They're not good. But I don't have to tell you this, which is what citizens and citizens tell you. If you go to the field, they tell you daily what everyone in this country is not happy with. We propose concrete measures. I was also disturbed by the position of the leader of Mr Han's Group of Social Democrats, who said: "We welcome such debates, such debates are needed," but their chairs were empty, and some debates were not able to be drawn up. And this is the party that I think is fighting to take over this country's leadership in future elections. I hope that citizens and citizens are watching this. It is also incorrect, at least incorrect and, above all, incorrect, its statement that the Slovenian Democratic Party is putting such proposals into the legal procedure now that we are just before the elections. Excuse me, I expect this government to do something else before the election. Everyone else is talking about elections, only the Slovenian Democratic Party is proposing laws. Here I ask you not to say this and to see how many concrete proposals are put into the procedure by the Slovenian Democratic Party to improve the situation of all workers in this country as well as others. In this case, at least 20. And now let me specifically go to the proposal of the law, because we are not really talking about this today. A Slovenian worker with a minimum wage is taxed, as far as net wages are concerned, on income of 60%. An average wage worker, and I will stress this — why? Because there was a talk earlier about so-called average wages. He's taxed on a net salary of 80%, respectable. 80 %. This is also clear from our proposal for a law. And now we're in a social state. Slovenia is a social state, but answer me: Are we a just social state? Earlier, colleague Marko Pogačnik, who is today a candidate and I think he is very professionally arguing our proposal in all respects, made it clear that today people are asking whether it is worth doing in this country. Whether it's worth waking up in the morning, taking a crying child at half past six to kindergarten, leaving him there to the last to come home, and then, of course, still looking for a way to how and what to put in a pot. Usually with an average salary, respected, so-called middle class, which the government beats the most, it really beats him the most, practically the most difficult way of living. I'm not saying social transfers are too high, no. I'm saying these salaries are too weak. Our proposal for a decommissioning, with a reduction in the tax burden, will help at least a handful. Someone will say, because there is not much – yes, for someone 44 euros is not much, but for someone it is a lot. I think even, colleague Iva, more than a week's worth of food. Our proposal also refers not only to improving the situation of workers, but also to so-called rural families, if I may say so where we propose a reduction, or when the cadastral income is determined to raise the scale from EUR 200 to EUR 500. 200, you know, it's kind of hard to say that this is some income that really means survival and I don't know what added value it is. This is also a proposal in this marriage, but of course it does not want to expose itself too much, for we do have those people who do something with their bile usually push aside. You said where to take it. 2 billion more revenue. Now you're going to say, yes, and even if you say 2 billion now, that's flat, you can say, and the exact amount will be slightly lower. But you know, the problem is where these two billion go. If you ask the average Slovenian on the road, whether it is right that from the taxpayer's wallets, from the wallets of citizens and citizens, from the ones I mentioned earlier – some are on a minimum, some are not getting a minimum wage, because their job is so low-systematic, or those who work for the average wage, but because of the derogation do not get social transfers and live just as badly – whether they want a higher salary, or whether it is important for them to give, for example, EUR 3 million to someone who changes their name, then takes the name of the policy and then takes the naked picture and gets EUR 3 million for that. [[…]] Tell me, where is common sense here?Oh, my God! Really tell me where common sense is here, especially where cultural added value is here. No, of course, it pays to make fun of a policy you want to discredit in any way. Second: Is it really necessary to recapitalise SDH and DUTB in this way, or is it necessary to make order there and to save this money and to devote it to Slovenian workers and Slovenian farmers? It will be difficult for you to convince me that this is not the case and that this recapitalisation has been justified by the fact that nothing changes! As far as the New Ljubljana Bank is concerned, that's what others tell you what you're doing. In short, not to mention that there is no money, not to mention that the Slovenian Democratic Party is applying populist laws without a basis. [[advertising from the hall]] Don't laugh about it, ma'am. I wouldn't laugh about it. You have a salary, and someone else, you know, doesn't know how to move on with those 40 euros. Go check out health homes. At times, they are full of people, not because of sickness, but because of social distress, which leads to their health. It's also a vicious circle. Here we have a concrete proposal, we have said a calculation, we have told you where to take it, we have told you that you are sleeping, as far as European funds are concerned. They were also exposed to tax debts, but not to recover them in such a way that you get to a good entrepreneur, but perhaps politically not in line with your option and then inspecting the pressure on them, if you find something and they find something for you, it is better for you to make a self-application. And people are desperate for peace to self-declare! [[advertising from the hall]] That's what's going on. Don't nod, it's happening! Go to the field, Your Honor. Go to the field and people will tell you. And these are people who have more than 10 employees. It's not a fair way to collect taxes. This is not how it is done with citizens and citizens, with those who create in this country. Taxes and taxpayers must be obtained or taken care of in an honest manner and in those who conceal them. And don't look for holes where people work honestly and then make a self-declaration out of fear and that they have peace. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose that the one with an average salary of around 44 euros gets a higher net salary or that they know about the income class for 2 percentage points and then they know that in the wallet. Do not tell citizens and citizens that we are doing well. Don't say it's economic growth and it shines the sun. You will be able to say this when you take such measures that will actually bring euro into their wallets. It's not much, but it's important to those on the verge of survival.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u63	Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor to prepare Mr Andrej Cuz and Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! If I continue, my dear fellows, I will appeal to you too. Don't tell people that it rains when it doesn't. This debate on income is of personal interest to me, regardless of its pre-election time. I can tell you that, according to the content, I support this law of yours. I agree with the tax cuts. But you want to push the fact that this proposal costs over 200 million euros to all taxpayers in your own debate and eat after the support of this law. Don't mind me if we weigh this 200 million, or we can forget whether we can redistribute it, we trust the government more than you do. Not because you would be less valuable, but because the government and not the opposition are responsible for handling and working with public finances. And if the Government bears this responsibility, politically, if you also want legal, whatever, then you need to understand that the word of the Government – I think it was well-founded by the Secretary of State – is significantly heavier and significantly heavier than some of the obvious, which are really pre-election and completely political. I'm going to define myself to some of the readings that I'm going to try to give in the context of everything else that's going on in the National Assembly. On the one hand, this week we had a strike due to the demands of public sector unions, which according to the Government's assessment would cost about a billion euros. We have repeatedly witnessed to the eyes, especially the Left in recent times, that the Government has been somewhat unwarranted in its negotiations with Hungary on the second track, with regard to the Hungarian contribution of EUR 200 million, if this government or state can cover this economic growth itself from the budget. In short, the demands made by the opposition to this budget amount to more than a billion euros. I think that some excuse for economic growth, which we are really witnessing to, and for some kind of prosperity, is not such that it is not justified to deviate from the path that is set for some fiscal policy, which is still intended to reduce our public debt and to somehow recover public finances and perhaps prepare for some worse times. I'm surprised at all these demands, and maybe even though they're elections. But you shouldn't mind if such claims, which are really nothing but putting your hand in a bag for which someone else is responsible, and throwing money out the window, are rejected one after the other. So in this pre-election period, we receive a number of laws – a law on pension and disability insurance, which has even received support yesterday, and this is not the only novelty of this law, there are some more, and each has its own cost implications, we have two novelties of the Income Law, we have other proposals after giving out from some common malha, and also from a small one that is not actually state-owned, but is a small economy. All these demands for money, which is not really from the one who proposes it, I think that taxpayers and all of us can be very expensive if we do not make a responsible decision on all these proposals. Today, there has been a lot of exposure to some state of affairs in the country, about the fact that public finances policy is not well managed by the economy. I'm going to try to dement all this for a while. In 2014, our client was really set up ad hoc, and if something was happening at the beginning, there was actually some sort of mockery, but now I believe that after three, four years of mandate and after everything that was done, many people actually have the situation closing their mouths. If you want to point out in the opposition that with some of your actions you will achieve more than this government has achieved, then I can tell you that we have the second, third best, biggest economic growth in the European Union, that we have many new investments. And don't keep everyone running from Slovenia. We have new greenfield investments, which obviously means that however large investors are situation, tax burdens do not disturb. How do you explain that to yourself? When you claim, on the one hand, that everyone is fleeing from Slovenia. Today it has been heard that we are worse than some Balkan countries, and on the other hand we are witnessing that we have a number of corporations that are already coming and who still want to come to the Republic of Slovenia. As for the departure of young people, I recall that debate after joining the European Union when Western European countries set quotas for workers from Eastern Europe and Eastern European countries fought against discrimination. All countries that have rejoined the European Union have fought against the free movement of capital and people. And today we are witnessing that young people are actually looking for jobs and also going abroad, not just from Slovenia, from all countries where they expect a smaller salary than they can then get in other countries. So this is mainly due to what we should expect, and I think that everyone who was reasonable expected that there would also be an outflow of young people abroad. We must be aware that Slovenia is not the most developed of the countries of the European Union, but we are certainly one of the most those that have joined the European Union from the Eastern European and Central European countries. I am convinced that this path, which we are taking after 2014, is the one that will put us in that middle or also the top of the European Union countries that will prevent this or give us some comparative advantage over other countries, that young people will not go to European Union countries, but will come more from other countries. Of course, then there will be all this debate, which often occurs, why people come from other countries to the Republic of Slovenia. I read on Twitter just a tweet from the Slovenian Democratic Party again in the sense that Slovenia cares only for migrants, not for domestic workers. I think it's one of your pre-election bluffs. You're telling us that we've released 500,000 migrants to the Republic of Slovenia, the Left is telling us that we've pushed all of these 500,000 to Austria. In short, nothing is right for one or the left or the right. However, I can tell you as an answer to such tweets, which I think are bluffing and unrelated to today's topic, but they are, of course, triggered precisely by this point, that you, in your mandate, were also concerned that we had an influx of over 50,000 migrant workers. This is a matter that is relatively complex, and I do not think it is possible to solve it in a simplified way, as you are proposing in today's law. I am sure that he is not the only one to be invested until the end of this term, but you will not mind if we focus on the Government's policy, which, given what has been done in these four years, we need to trust more than your proposals, even in the light of how you treat your own client when you owe yourself outside the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u65	Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor. Get Dr. Ange Logar and Mrs. Vojka Shergan ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u66	Respectable in today's session! The fact is, in Slovenia we have too low wages and too low pensions. That's a fact. Looking at neighbouring Austria, it was said today, they have an average salary of 500 euros higher. Which one of us doesn't want one? Therefore, there is also something to see how we can have it. It seems to me that the proposal that SDS colleagues are putting forward, which we are considering, is going this way to look, where and what we can do together, that people will have more. We have also tabled our own proposal two years ago, and our proposal has brought even €50 more per month for a minimum wage, but it has not been acceptable. Why wasn't he acceptable? Because tax cuts are not in the interest of this government. It is in the interest of this government to raise taxes, and then we will share, but those that we will determine. Look, that's how you get it. This can also be understood from the words of the predecessor, Comrade Zorčič, who said: "This proposal brings – 200 million will cost all taxpayers." Will it cost or ease them, all taxpayers? What's going to happen to them now? Will it cost them or will all these taxpayers be relieved for 200 million? But here we all would be, and you say, "We prefer to trust the government and we will determine who is who gets these reliefs." See — Is It a Righteous State? Can people in this country then feel equivalent and have a sense of solidarity to make a contribution with their work and that they all receive the same? No, no, no. Just the ones you're talking about. Although the Minimum Wages Act is not harmonised by 4.7%, the minister said: "I will give it, I insist." "I'll determine," I understand "who gets it. I will determine because the elections are at the door." That's a nice, clear message. And that's right. If we had successful officials and successful services such as the tax and financial administration, we would not read that someone in Slovenia could tax 60 million. Such evasions pay us all our wages and raise our taxes because someone there is incompetent to step on our fingers with such scoundrels. €60 million was published two days ago, an international tyranny that cannot be found. Please kindly, of course, it's the easiest thing for the one who gets paid, to charge! [[…]] He won't cross the border, he has no interest, and Interpol won't be looking for him. That's right. And today, when you speak, I really want to have a debate in the National Assembly, I hope, I wish I could wait for it, the net available income, that's the topic that we should talk about. That means what you get at the end of the month from your job, from your salary. To me, as well as to many people in Slovenia, this means survival. You can live with that. Once again, I stress what we are stressing in New Slovenia all the time, we are separating social policy and family policy. Once we do that, we'll be able to talk about net available income. When we do not say net available income here, we also count the social assistance, the aid provided by municipalities, kindergarten bills, reduced pay of kindergartens, children's allowances, free lunches, packages on Karitas and the Red Cross. Do you know how I want to say, yes, society is mature, we want changes, where what I've listed will actually be what I've listed, child support, reduced child pay and all of this, related to the child, and this will be family policy? And people live practically from a policy that dictates how much they get in their pocket, into a wallet money over taxes. The proposal, which is on our table today, I think it's going in the direction of people getting at least some euro in their wallet. Since one euro a day knows what it means, at least something can be afforded with one euro. To say that we also need to start talking about transportation at work and lunches — this is what employers have been demanding since 2013! That's what you should say. But you know what was consciously accepted? That it's kind of a social fixer-upper. That's why it's still inconvenient. And whose burden is this, a ride to work and lunch? Is that what the state hides for the craftsmen? Can they make that up to you? I'm asking, Secretary of State. Is that a refund for the state and a ride to work for lunch, or is that the cost of the employer? That's the answer I'd like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u67	Mrs Vojka Šergan has the floor to prepare for Mr Jožef Horvat, Mr Jože Tanko and Dr Mitja Horvat. That's everybody in the regular part. Mrs. Shergan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. First, I would say that when we talk about tax cuts — who doesn’t want lower taxes? Everyone would answer that question, yes. But here we certainly should not want to discuss this black and white. In fact, today's debate has shown that tax balance is very important. And as I have discussed in my own view that the budget must be balanced and that, in fact, the Members of the SDS have proposed this law in such a way as to reduce the inflow to the budget, this means an unbalanced budget and this also means a violation of the fiscal rule and consequently a violation of the Constitution. That is exactly what I have stressed in my position. However, as far as income reductions are concerned, economic growth is of course. Healthy economic growth based on exports based on new investments, both domestic and foreign, and, of course, in the future also counts on wage increases. For if there is a demand for knowledge on the market, after those who have knowledge, yet on the other hand in the next period it means that wages will increase. Because, as has already been pointed out today, the problem is that there are too many minimum wages, which is 60% of the workers in us receiving minimum wages. And so then these problems, how to restructure, how to balance taxes. This black and white comparison with Austria, when we compare it – as this was also exposed in Tarča – 200 Euros more get workers in Austria than in Slovenia. But -- here it is again, but I'm saying because -- in Austria they don't have transportation to work and they don't have lunch, and after we're statistically comparing it all, you just can't say it like that, it's higher. It's just hard to make this comparison black and white. And the cost of living, of course, is higher in Austria. I do not say that I agree with the minimum wage, but I also wish that in this country we would have taxes like elsewhere, but I would like to point out in my debate that it is necessary to restructure taxes so that we need to focus on this. But one of the laws you are now proposing is not. This policy consensus would certainly be in the coming period, as Mr Pogačnik discussed that we are talking about net income, as the government representative discussed. I agree with that, too. But this has to be done through some consensus, because you all know what happens when you fix it, the other group in the country feels it, and I'm gonna say it doesn't get high enough. This is also evident now when we have a strike, when the requirements are worth a billion, higher pensions, and when we add that up – who is now to be taken from the budget? Who do you want me to lower? Reduce to whom for 2018 and 2019? Of course, you have pointed out that there is a reserve for excise duties, but at this point in time, it is difficult to say to whom to actually reduce and subtract. On the other hand, it will be again to those who earn the least, this tax scale again, 44 euros, I do not say that it is not money and that it is not important for anyone, but see, on this page we have actually on the scale of 10 thousand 300, 10 thousand 600, 300 euros already given these allowances, which will be paid exactly this year's income for last year's calculation, and the second year will be this linear scale, where there will be no large cuts, for example, to lose someone for one euro and pay 300 Euros of income. [[…]] There have certainly been steps to be taken in the area of tax restructuring, but of course there will be more to be done in order to reduce taxes in the future. You're saying that higher economic growth is not due to this government. Of course, here is a set of some stakeholders, namely good exports, a stable policy led by this government and a new investment, all of which gives the economy a new impetus to this economic growth and not to cool down. That's a good signal. The ratings of the rating houses have also helped, as financial resources on the market are also cheaper. Last but not least, domestic and foreign investments are happening. Even this week, I was in the Central Slovenian region, in Lithuania – 70 new jobs to build a plant, a foreign investor who is fully satisfied with what the environment offers, have a quality labour force, work with added value, and say that these 70 jobs will also be with higher added value, which is also important for Zasavje, I think also shows that I am talking and coming out of the economy, in a way that gives people the opportunity to continue economic growth and to tell people that the country is doing better, and because the country is doing better, people will be doing well. [[…]] Of course, not with as quick a step as you would like. As a result of higher economic growth, everyone would want higher wages — because this is happening, but in steps. Step by step, it's not overnight. You also mentioned that the reserve is that it has been employed in public administration. All statistics show that even 0 per cent has been reduced in the public administration. [[…]] I'm talking in a tight spot. In the wider sector, which means health services, education, education, education, these new jobs are, of course, budget consumers, but these are services where there is still market demand. For as a population we grow old, and therefore it is right, in health we say that there is no man, thank God, even in education, in education; and also in homes for the aged, because our people are old. These jobs are the result of services and not employment in a closer administration. You're misleading people with this, but you're saying that in public administration, it's a huge job now, if that's not the case. Then drawing on European funds. Also the previous European perspective, 2007–13, when you were 2008, you were not at the top of the drawdown, but you set it up. I remember this perspective, the way it went. 2012 pumping too – now I won't think of it, but I don't think it was 40%. It was not until 2015 that our government launched the whole process to make, and 2014, 2015 was the main drawback. That's what we've been saying, and this data is available. I think that, given economic growth and these encouraging results, the next government will certainly have easier steps than this government had when it began its mandate. And it was hard, of course, to start with, laws that gave some increases and some candy to people, but even at the beginning, it wasn't possible, because the country's debt was too high or there was no money in the budget. Now this is improving, pensions are increasing, wages are rising gradually, and I believe that the new government, which will take office in mid-year, will be easier. Any government will be. I'm going to say here that we can't pass this income law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u69	Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko and Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I have some concerns that sometimes, I have a feeling that if the opposition makes a proposal or an urgent meeting of some working body of the National Assembly, the coalition understands that this is an attack on the government, that it is an attack on the coalition. This is the wrong approach. Here we have a solution. I will not repeat, we have said that we support this proposal. It is good that we are opening the debate today, and it would be even better if we already made good extensions for the second reading, and all together have actually found the optimal solution to what this moment or tomorrow this country is going through to make the well-being of all our people better. I will not now repeat all the statistics that we have already repeated here thousands of times, and they are cruel, some data. From the number of people living below the poverty line and so on and so on. In short, I agree – and it is a shame that there is no longer a colleague of Private Shergan now, but yes, she is here – dear colleague, I agree with you when you announced, the wages will be higher. Now there's some signature to be given here, and as far as I'm concerned, I'm here to help you get them higher. For what, of course, is the second question, I hope that it is also real, not as we say that pensions have actually decreased by 16.5% in the last 10 years. We have incredible challenges ahead of us, incredible demands for funding. The public sector strikers told us to give us a billion – to simplify things a little bit. As far as our transport infrastructure is concerned – is it in perfect condition? We need a lot of new construction, maintenance and so on. And as far as wages and jobs are concerned, I would not like the Republic of Slovenia to become a destination, where it is exclusively or in the vast majority of so-called lonarbite, some complementary business. I would like to have here, yes, including multinationals, but above all our successful domestic companies have their own development institutes, development and so on and so forth. Then there is a higher added value, as we call it, and of course the possibility of higher wages. But the country can't be too greedy. This is today's debate. This is what is under discussion today. We advocate the freedom of man, the freedom of the citizen. What you create, what you deserve, you have, not the state saying, hey, wait, you're not capable, we're going to get 40 or 60 percent, and then we, the state, the politics, are going to share. Today, someone from the coalition said very objectively, I think colleague Han, that social transfers should also be overturned. How I feel about Slovenia sticking to being a social state and must be a social state. Here again, I repeat that we are defending the social market model of the economy, even though some people here are attacking us and simply don't want to or maybe they really don't understand this model, and how they live and live in the most developed economies in Europe. I'm not even going to get any bigger. I think we need to give each individual a chance. When will we be better? When are we going to create a billion for wages, a billion for infrastructure, a billion for pensions, an additional billion for better social policy? When are we going to create this? How? In what way? What a way!? Pencil in hand, calculator in hand? In what way? In my opinion, our assessment is only in such a way that any citizen who wants to work has knowledge that has entrepreneurial ideas that are good, in his own words, let the country leave and work. Let him do it! We go around the country, meet successful entrepreneurs, ask them, "What can politics do for you to be better?" Many answer us, as you do: “Let us work. Let's work. Don't hinder us, don't throw pollen under our feet." And here I think we have too much of this state economy, and that's not good.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u71	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Get Dr. Mitja Horvat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Unfortunately, the coalition is defending itself, and so is the government, by introducing some pre-election law and now it's time that, I don't know, we shouldn't propose such laws or it's unhygienic to propose them. I ask why the Government is introducing laws that also have impact and financial implications. Is this pre-election time also applicable to you? You're making laws now just to show up in the eyes of people, the public, I don't know, spheres and so forth with a pretty face? Is that why you raised your salary and salary to the principals of primary schools and kindergartens? Is it because of the pre-election time, the probe and the reinforcement of your electoral base or anything? We don't approach this kind of segregation. We have introduced the Income Act that you have before you, which reduces all income taxpayers by the same rate of income tax. For two percentage points in all income classes. No segregation. No group is exempt. Earlier, Mrs Shergan had talked about negotiating and adding this to some groups – none in particular. All in the same way, with the same concept, in proportion to the same approach. The only question is why it is not possible to accept this on an average basis, after the debtor, about 20, 30, 50 euros per month. And you're saying that this has unknown financial implications. Only Zoran Jankovic received 16 million euro in a forced settlement, which he did not have to pay for being written off, and that is a tenth of that money, which we propose with increased general relief. Just a dozen, Zoran Jankovic, Mayor of Ljubljana, the richest municipalities in Slovenia. Doesn't that bother you? Now look at the rulings in this mandate and find out how many such Jankovic dawns there have been, have been written off or have been burdened by that country. Look, Stožice, how much money has been stuck in the Congests in public debt and in a bank hole? Between €170 million and €200 million. So many people had to gather to cover a hole for the Centipede. Who was responsible for the hole? How did we pay for it? No one has been disturbed here, not by this government, nor by your former party president, Mr Pahor, Mr German, and so on, all quietly. Persecution organs don't work. There's no problem here, in cases like this. For example, this bank hole caused by Stožice is about 5% of the bank hole in Slovenia. Nothing. Now that the commission of inquiry is working in the field of venous cords, there have been enormous overpayments, with four times the number of five times the number of purchases of certain materials in clinical centres and perhaps in some hospitals. What did you do as an operative, like the government? All the same customers supply the same prices from the same suppliers of the same materials. They're all the same there. And you're talking about where we're going to find the money – there's this money in the clinical center alone, I don't know, 300 million, one that goes through these channels with these overpaid out. Perhaps, I suppose, because if the stent is overpaid four times, it is also a hip, it is also a cornea and some other material is probably in a similar formula because it is a model. We have a central supply there and it runs through the central formulae, the forms are made, the channels are set up, things are running. But here we are talking about giving, I don't know, 150 million euros to the citizen, an average of a few hundred euros, and there's absolutely nothing to be done. Nothing. Here the government and the coalition sing the same song: impossible, we are not responsible because we propose it. I ask you what your responsibility is to do nothing after all these observations. The Minister of Health has done nothing, absolutely nothing in this mandate. Except that she fought extremely hard, that everything remained the way it was, that the old ways ran to work in the same way, that the money ran in the same way out of the system. She has done nothing else, and she has given up 130 million euros to ensure that those who have not been paid for too much material have also been paid for it. And those directors who may have overlooked or looked away when this happened will be given special stimulation for recovery. They're gonna get a reward with the extras to pay. Is this an approach and a solution in these areas? I think that these things that we are proposing must be accepted in one way or another. The time is right, the time has been right before, but the government doesn't start, the coalition is philosophical about all the problems and embarrassments and invents the reasons why it's not possible, you've done your best here, I have to admit, and no one can find a reason to do it. Apparently, only SDS and NSIs will support this law. I believe that this bill, as well as the next, is about VAT, about the conflict of concepts. That's perfectly clear to me. We want to have rich citizens, because rich citizens are also a rich country, the more people have wealth, the more they are independent, the easier they work, the more they create and so on. On the other hand, we have the concept of a socialist country where everyone's wish is that people are as poor as possible, that they are as dependent on different institutions, desks, social work centres, that office and so on, to line up with applications for such and other assistance. People who are forced to do so are dependent on the state. The policy that has so far been in all these left-wing governments is exactly the same. This is extremely advocated by the Left, but it is no different for those who quietly support such proposals. Sorry, that's how it is. A citizen, a citizen, a taxable person who has to come for social assistance, depends on an official on the other side of the counter. It may also not be approved or approved underlying. And worse still, we have a system on the other side that makes people even ineffective. People add up, 8 hours of work is so much, I get so many social supplements, if I work too hard, I get too few supplements, I get less. And they're starting to add it up. And what is the result? What's the result? Surely this is not reflected in better efficiency, it certainly is not reflected in better belongings, but it is reflected in speculation. In speculation. People add up and it's not worth working for 20 euros, because then he loses either a scholarship or a children's allowance, or he loses a grant in kindergartens, doesn't get, like, a regressed apartment and so on. In short, we get into a situation where people start calculating what they're worth, instead of letting them work, and they pay more when they're working, they pay the country more, and the country is better, they're dealing with this simple social math. This is the same in all social states. Communism has not yet succeeded in any country. The final goal of all these regimes is the waiting line before empty shelves. Now you're looking at this in Venezuela, this is happening in Zimbabwe, Cuba is very similar. Without money, these systems don't live. We propose to create money and to get that money to those who create it. All these things that the Secretary of State has previously listed, what they have done for which income class — yes, some will get what you listed, but not all of them. Not all of them. 13. salary will not be paid by everyone in Slovenia. They won't, I'm sorry, that's right. And maybe not everyone in Slovenia gets the Christmases. However, these reliefs that we propose — or these changes in this law — will be granted to all those who have to comply or who will be granted a tax return by the State. Everybody. There are no differences here, neither left nor right, nor managerial, and so on, everyone gets one. Everyone falls under this system. Clearly, this government, however we look at it, is one that does not tolerate people getting money, but shares money. The dividing economy is the goal of this government. Not that people get to decide what to do with it, but then get them into battle for some forms and line up in front of the offices. The question was asked here several times and the answer was sought to explain why in Austria a thousand litres of heating oil is 150 euros cheaper than in Slovenia. That's about 150 liters of that, too. Why does Austria get this cheaper? Why are other goods cheaper in Austria? Those who live in a small band benefit greatly. Why is there a better standard of living? Although they have higher wages, that minimum wage comes to our middle class, in, I don't know, the third tax rate, that's their minimum wage, and for that minimum wage they get, I don't know, 150 liters of fuel oil anymore, but they get no more powders and they get cheaper food and so on. What is the reason for these "weak" conditions in Austria, and what makes us better with this regime? With this philosophy and with such an approach, we can never be better. Never. Because we're not dealing with productivity because we're not dealing with work, we're dealing with creation, we're dealing with division. The President of the Government in Davos is presenting European and world cream on the circular economy. What's that? Tadej Slapnik, who is supposed to be a representative or very top of the circular economy system, is already there in the fifth party. It's a circular economy. He was with the SNS, with the nationals, and I don't know where else in Zares, and now he's in the SMC. It's a circular economy. It's always on top. And it's the same in banks somewhere else. It's a circular economy. But you don't want the Ljubljana Banks to clean up this burden, which will cut back on their heads with an additional billion or two, to sell for what I don't know, so we can recapitalise. That's it. Instead of investing in money, we're collecting it to cover the holes. The best state property works the biggest holes. The biggest holes! Here we are government that comes, furry with how to protect the system bank. It's a systemic abyss where money disappears in unexplained ways. Someone earlier said that she went last year, I don't know, billions of euros into tax havens. Why aren't you dealing with it? With this billions of euros that have gone to tax havens, we adopt all the tax laws that we will propose as opposition, no problem. Money is more than enough. There's always someone who finds that something needs to be recapitalized. This holding company, that holding company, the second track and so on. Even so, you have come so far as to pay €380 million in fines that the bank will not sell. Here, for example, we are talking about a tax relief for income of 160 million euros. Half, a third of that. What you teach and what you suggest is crazy. You have to be "flicked" to suggest such solutions and then blackmail people and take money out of their pockets instead of letting them survive. That's amazing how you are! Instead of getting people where they create holes to clean them up, process them, prove them guilty, because it's probably obvious, all these same people are going round there; once as performers, twice as supervisors, third as auditors, and so on. This is crazy! And they inherit these functions, I don't know, someone who hasn't done anything has been named for the fifth time to do nothing again. I suggest that the government take the wisdom to support this law, to give people what is theirs and what they deserve. They've earned more than that, that's a minimum of what we're proposing, and we're going to work things out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u73	Dr Mitja Horvat has the word, and then we end with the conclusion of the general debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! Believe me, Sir Tanko, I didn't take anything personally because I didn't count on it to fly me, so I hope those to whom this applies heard. Today is certainly an interesting debate, I am not saying that less than or more than any previous one, and some interesting clues, starting points, which I believe we will say some more in the future. Like Mr Pogačnik, I am very pleased that today the distinguished Secretary of State has arrived with the right expression, with which we are beginning to work to see what is actually going on. These figures will be very interesting, as I called yesterday, even in this case I call on or invite the participation of various ministries which certainly have these data, at least I have been accompanying at least one of the committees for work, family, social affairs in the National Assembly, so that I think it will be possible to take a full look on this basis. Because what respectable colleague Tanko will have to understand is that we are talking about one piece today, one measure that would certainly achieve some positive effects, and, of course, we have also heard the reasons or integrity of such a solution or the results of such a solution so far. Alone, if you will remember, I have ever debated the same way you are discussing today. In view of this issue, when it has been happening for hundreds of years now, that people want a safe hug of the country, and I can see your debate today as a call for this hug to become overwhelming for many. This is probably also the basic reason why many fundamentally interesting proposals from the left cannot be accepted in the middle. Not to repeat, of course, I will sign everything that my esteemed colleague Zorčič of our parliamentary group has said in this regard. What am I actually talking about? Today, most of us have heard that it is a matter of giving people a little more space to decide for themselves where money is, and how to spend it. Will with a 2% increase and with what honourable Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has said, with the euro a day, really be able to live with dignity, or will this already help? If this were to happen, of course, I would immediately support this law, but I think we need to look even further and that we need to be even more ambitious. The information I have at my disposal – and I would like to say that, since it was at the beginning, we have such a system, it is a procedure that it is only very late for you to react to some of the things that have been reported in the first place, namely that we have employed 8 000 people in the public sector during this government and that this is the only thing that has reduced unemployment. Because I have heard so many times, and since I have been running out of time, for the last time and for the last time, and for today, I am responsible for the fact that, according to me, the available data prepared by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, the number of employees in the period since July 2014, when the last elections, to the last available data, has increased by about 57 000 at the end of last year – please do not hold me to the number exactly – and that indeed 8 thousand of them are falling away from the public sector. I wanted to take this opportunity because today there was also a talk about this issue to say that there are many more people in employment than there were at the time that this government came, so that we will not talk, as you say, about economic growth alone. As far as this is concerned, why not, and of course, you will not resent us if we can repeat what we are told in Europe, that we are a miracle, that they cannot believe and understand how this can happen, with the simultaneous efforts we have entered into to consolidate public finances. Since, of course, we have not yet completed our tasks, everyone’s efforts are needed. In this part, at least we were able to stop further debt, so we can say that we are in a relatively stable situation where we can figure out how to proceed. But like I said on one other occasion, let me do it again today. As respectable colleague Zorčič said before, one billion would have been here, the other a few hundred million would have been there – it will not work. However, and you yourself point out that at all ends and places we will not be able to. Therefore, it may be easier for you to forgive us if we do not accept all the proposals that are coming, because, of course, we have to take care of our final goal at the end of the day, which is that we are living in an orderly, stable situation and that we can normally design our future activities. But I would like to say today about income – where this part can be basically, as can I as well as anyone in front of me – that I like the proposal itself, that it is worth considering, and certainly in one way or another, taken into account in further thinking how to proceed. But today you have targeted people, and on the other hand you have also taken entrepreneurs to the defense, to whom all my due respect and admiration for courage, effort and what also follows from the official data. If you look at it, and of course no one reports it, so now I invite you, I will not go into the numbers more precisely, you will be able to see that the profits in the economic field in 2014 were minor. It's barely a percentage. If you look at the data from last year, you will find that we are talking about an enormous increase in the profits of economic operators. If we measured it in millions or some tens of millions three years ago, 2014, it is now well over a billion and approaching two billion a year. Here, of course, I invite all present to have sufficient room for manoeuvre. Why do the eyes keep staring at the country, and why should public funds be provided for everyone in the National Assembly? Why don't we invite everyone together? It can also be in a form that has failed if we have already been in some of the current developments concerning the proposal to raise the minimum wage and, on the other hand, the sentence requirements. Why was there no agreement between the representatives of workers and employers? Why don't we have wage agreements? Why aren't these conversations running? I think that here is the real essence of the issue that we should talk about today. I believe that it is easy not to say that everyone – I understand what you also wanted to point out, but by statistics, by records, according to official data, the profitability of economic activity shown I see enough space for employers to be able to, and I call them here, and I hope that you will join me, too, to invite employers to think about what has been said today. What the OECD reminds us is that the difference between minimum and average wage is too low. About what we don't like to talk about and I like that it was said that I don't have to say it as the first one – why is the difference so small between those who work and those who don't work? Of course, I would like to add to this a little bit so that we are not overly under pressure and that we do not go to that point in life, whether we can live with it, or whether it is necessary in this case, or what we should do about these issues. That's why I thought it was so important what the Secretary of State said, that we should look at what the actual benefits of people, what they all get, look at the whole. It is easy to take a piece of it and then stretch it all over, but I'm afraid that most of the delusions that you've been talking about – even the ones that have caused us to do something that Mr Tanko urged us to do, I can answer it with the next one. Like I said, I didn't take it personally, I know it doesn't fly me, at least I didn't recognize in any way that I could have anything in here, but I can simply call him and all of this: Can this way of thinking that we have, analytically, really get to the right answers to complex questions? Wasn't the time that I pointed out and urged yesterday that we should also think in detail, not just analytically, so for complex issues, find complex solutions? It requires a little more work, a little more cooperation, but here we are, we are ready, and we are also doing this with responsibility for this entire mandate. We're not just talking about some pieces, and I don't understand and I absolutely reject the obvious that at that time we were just taking care of someone or someone or yourself or anything. Once again, the economic growth that is surprised in Europe, a few tenfold increase in profits for economic operators as well, foreign investors coming into our desired environment, and by the way, note, very quickly find where they have come from. I will not repeat everything we have heard and seen or read in the media in the last year or two in this regard. I think we're on the right track, and I agree with you, absolutely, some of this must be for everyone. Last but not least, I agree with what Mrs Dimic has said, but with respect to what Mr Joseph Horvat has said, and I have another little thing that I would like to share with him. I have already discussed myself, and I expect that what has happened, what we have managed to stabilise and develop, these favourable indicators with which we have to deal today do not mean that it is the basis for all the appetites and desires, for all the interests that each individual or individual stakeholders have. I also expect that something will happen about this – and it is, it is in many areas. We hear that wages have grown in the economy, we hear that wages have been raised recently in the public sector as well, and we hear that pensioners have more than they had in 2014. I think the question is whether we are also ready to admit that we already know something. And I'm sure we still have to. If anyone, then I say again and again in this place that it is right to let people go, and here I absolutely agree with the honourable proponents, with the forerunners who have spoken about this work. It is necessary to enable people to freely shape their lives and, of course, to be responsible for it. I am also waiting for the time, conditions in which everyone will have the opportunity to express his potential, his talents, that he will be able to live from them, that he will have the opportunity, all equally, not by force, not by law, to have the same opportunities. And when you talk about wanting a balance sheet on one side – if anyone wants one, I don't want one. You've never heard me say that we're all human beings, just like any of you are. Thank God we're different. But we must have in this diversity, which makes us rich, all equal opportunities. So just a little bit from the economy, where I rarely advertise and maybe I recommend some work. I took one of the interesting ones myself in the last week. On the question of whether an individual is really rational, whether an individual — not to get me wrong, not in an insulting sense, but whether an individual — is truly rational in economic decision. So on this basis, I am asking you a question that I don't have to answer because it's not a challenge, but I'm just going to say, "Are you sure that people will make a more rational decision if we accept this change in income, 2% for everyone in the numbers you've talked about?" I am sorry for all those individuals who cannot make more rational decisions because they are in trouble, unable to choose, but are happy if they can buy anything for the money they have at their disposal. Therefore, something that we must continue to do is much more bold and follows the ultimate goal of human dignity. Therefore, a hint of solidarity, economic issues – what can and must we do as a society, what is the role of the country in this? Not as I said at the outset, which safe, warm hug we want, but these relaxations that liberate us, all individuals and legal entities, even in the pursuit of entrepreneurial goals, that this hug will not be excessively narrow and that there will be no undignified position for an individual when he becomes a slave in the hands of someone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u75	[[advertising from the hall]] The proposer immediately or then the final part? Twice? Okay. The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u76	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In the Slovenian Democratic Party we are absolutely for higher wages, but we are for higher wages, but not at the expense of the economy, but at the expense of reducing tax burdens. Such a proposal is now on the table, an amendment to the Income Act, which provides for a reduction of the income classes by 2 percentage points and an increase in income benefits. With such a proposal, those who earn an average salary in Slovenia would receive about EUR 400 more directly into their wallet each year. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the current economic situation, the inflows to the budget allow for such a measure. We are convinced that by amending this law, we would not undermine the stability of public finances, we would not endanger the fiscal rule, but would only allow citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia a better life. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that economic growth must also be known in the wallets of all those who work honestly and do their jobs. It should be stressed that the government of Mira Cerar and the coalition of parties of the Modern Centre, Social Democrats and Desus have around 1.5 billion more tax revenues than the Government has had in 2014 or 2013, but unfortunately what has created the economy, you spend otherwise, or for your needs or for additional employment in public administration. I would like once again to thank all those who work in the economy, not least those who work in the public administration, but unfortunately, the economy is the one that pays for the budget. We pay contributions to the budget to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and this government works mainly on wrong moves. This government and this coalition are actually burdening the economy and, in other ways, putting additional burdens on citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia by increasing excise duties, taxes, value added taxes. What you've been saying about the pensioners, I find it extremely unserious. You have mentioned how already pensioners are familiar with higher income compared to 2014. This government and this coalition are, in my opinion, making a fool of pensioners. You have increased his pension by one cup of ice cream, and I think it is extremely unrealistic to have 1.5 billion more tax revenues in the budget, so that you will then boast by such measures as you have carried out. I'm sure our proposal is correct, it's acceptable. It is also acceptable for the sustainability of public finances. On the one hand, it seems to me that today's debate has been in the right direction, but unfortunately, as we have seen in the views of individual parliamentary groups, Members of the coalition parties, the parties of the modern centre, Desus and the Social Democrats, you will not support our proposal. I am sure that they will be able to properly judge the voters and voters in the upcoming national elections, and I am confident that voters and voters will be aware within 4 months that the Slovenian Democratic Party programme is the one that will allow for the further development of Slovenia and, above all, a better life for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. As a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I can make this promise that if the Slovenian Democratic Party wins, we will implement all of these proposals that we have tabled in this mandate in reality.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u77	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. First, the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Tilen Bozič, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u78	Mr President, thank you for saying so. In view of the time I have left behind, I would only say that, on the basis of what I have already said in the opening and then also completed, I would conclude that, on the basis of the above findings and also the facts presented, the Government of the New Law on Income does not support and also considers that it is not appropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u79	The text is also given by the representative of the Magi's proposer. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u80	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I regret the decision made by the Secretary of State. She was kind of expecting it. The Slovenian Democratic Party with 19 Members and Members at a given time cannot more than simply propose amendments to the law. However, I am sure that you will understand that the Slovenian Democratic Party needs more Members and Members to implement its proposals in Parliament. The decision on whether the Slovenian Democratic Party will have several Members and Members in this Parliament in the next term is primarily on the side of the electorate and the electorate. If you want to have lower taxes, better conditions, then you will have to go to the elections and vote to the Slovenian Democratic Party. The Slovenian Democratic Party and its President, Janez Janša, have already proven that they can run this country from 2004 to 2008. This was certainly the most successful period in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, not least the figures say so. In 2008, the minimum number of unemployed persons in Slovenia, number 60 000, the Slovenian budget had a positive balance, had more income than expenditure, and, last but not least, the successful management of the European Union in 2008. I am convinced that this government is one big disappointment and that we have had a three-and-a-half-year loss of opportunity over the course of these three years. Last but not least, we were able to be present, we received hurricane Milojka and hurricane Mira, and I fear the consequences of these two hurricanes will be severe in the coming years. We also do not rule out the possibility that if this government loses its judgment and loses its head and shares its candy, no matter which government gets a new mandate, a new Zujf will have to be adopted. Once again, I would like to ask Members and Members that, at times, there is also a need to adopt a law that will benefit citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, a law that will be in favour of public administration, but not only that we adopt laws that enable the government to live on a high foot. I am sure that this needs to be said enough, and that once the results are successful, if this results and inflows into the budget allow, this means, this money must be distributed to those who are doing it honestly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u81	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Then please, I have to read it to the end first, so it'll be clear because it wasn't yesterday. [[…]] If a representative of the proposer of the Magi law also applies to the debate. Marko Pogačnik and the representative of the Government will get the word as the last, first the representative of the Government, then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Each debater has 5 minutes. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u82	Dear President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. I know this point is already long for some of us today, but despite not being reported in the debate earlier, I will allow myself to speak a few sentences on the bill proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party and proposed by my colleague Mag. Marko Pogačnik explained several times today to all of us who are here in the National Assembly, but of course to all those who are outside the National Assembly. If anyone asks me, of course, because this mandate is slowly ending, let me say some of the main points that I have come to realize as a Member of this reference, because I am first in the National Assembly. Most of the time, when the Secretary of State finally said that this bill was inappropriate for further consideration, it also led me to the fact that we are in one big trade. One of them drives from this shop without paying for a large box, and those second-rate citizens have to count sugar every day, and the salt has to count some grains. That's a fact in this country. Dear colleagues from the largest government party are increasingly holding that in the spring of 2014, someone called the current Prime Minister of the Government and ordered him to prepare for the elections, which will soon be, to prepare the team and to win the government. That's what happened. Because those who ordered it also provided all media support. And I know it's not dark today. During their term of office, many said that they were also on leave in an election campaign. One of the Members even said that when he arrived home from his vacation, he had been informed that he had been elected to this call by the National Assembly. I know it's funny. I want to refer to today's proposaler, Mr. Pogačnik. Mr Pogačnik spoke what we said in the Slovenian Democratic Party before the elections. Today, we have always heard throughout the debate that it is a big problem for this sustainable cashier to endure this. My friend Pogačnik spoke of 160 million. The President of the Government, if anything in his trousers, could have obtained these 160 million or 200 million for this cashier’s Republic of Slovenia. When we talk about how much money should be earned by those who have the smallest wages, our common money is always a problem. However, when we are talking about our common money, which is widely carried out outside Slovenia, and also in Slovenia, we have not reached even one point in this mandate, so that when our mandate expires in May, we can find out who accidentally took some euro out of Slovenia. I'm sure there won't be any of that information. During this debate this morning, a citizen sends me one picture from Television Slovenia 1 and writes whether we are Members or players in this National Assembly – and I do not want to offend those who play games, but we have played many segments today, we were not right to our citizens and citizens – and we are talking about the minimum wage of a unemployed mother who has two children [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u83	I conclude the general debate. Yesterday we were talking about natural and other disasters, but today unfortunately there were also unfortunate metaphors and accusations that miss the reality. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda. I'm breaking the 10th item of the agenda. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the determination of the catastronomic income. The draft law was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Tomaž Lisc.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u84	President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues, everyone's welcome! We have before us a law on the determination of cadastral income. In short, what is cadastral income, this is essentially the basis on which we can say whether a farmer will survive or stagnate at all, or perhaps what is a little strange for the Slovenian situation, will even succeed. This law before us is the second stage of the law just before us, the law on income. Why? In the case of the Income Act, we proposed a solution to raising the cadastral income, which is considered to be a taxpayer for the payment of income from the title, from EUR 200 to EUR 500, and we talked only two Members about this important issue, which also concerns farmers. But as we're told, there's a cadastral income law ahead of us that has a long beard. I myself recall that, in the 2011-2014 mandate, as well as in this mandate, I think we have met three times in urgent meetings of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food on this issue. The SDS Group has twice introduced the law into the procedure once after we had so-called acorns so as not to raise the cadastral income, and on the second occasion we proposed a cadastral income extension of the period when the Ministry of Agriculture could not face the new methodology. Unfortunately, we also find in the SDS Group that when we talk about cadastral income, there is nowhere to overlook the Minister responsible for agriculture, mag. Dejan Židan, who is always hiding in the safe shelter of the Ministry of Finance, is to oppose the legislative proposals proposed by the SDS Group. As soon as the current Cadastrian Income Act was adopted, we warned the SDS Group about what would happen to the Slovenian farmer if this law came into force and what would happen to Slovenian farmers if this law came into force 100%. Even then, not just us, were pressured by people who in their own calculations showed how brutal this new cadastral income is, how brutal this new methodology is and what it means for a Slovenian farmer. I quote one expert: “With the new law, the finance ministry will raise the cadastral income of farmers to the sky, in various parts of Slovenia there are expected increases in cadastral income by 700 to more than 2,000 percent. The farmers are, of course, angry because the cadastral income is the basis both for calculating their income and for calculating the amount of membership for the Agricultural Forestry Chamber.” Not to mention the impact of cadastral income on social transfers, which we have discussed a lot in the previous law. In short, the intensity of today's marriage is very simple. In particular, let those small farmers work with two measures. The first step is to raise the threshold of cadastral income from €200 to €500. Less work for tax administration and simplification of life, especially those of the smallest farmers who are the greatest added value to Slovenian farmers, but most often face too much red tape. The second measure, which is, is an infamous transitional provision that this government has invented in the adoption of the current applicable law, namely that, for 2017, cadastral income and flat-rate income assessment on bee stumps are attributed to 40 % of what is measured, and then in 2018, 2019 an increase in this calculation to the final calculation, i.e. a 100 % catastronomic income in 2020. What does that mean? This government has adopted a law that will make the disappearance of a small, slightly larger Slovenian farmer in 2020, in order to finally realize the desire of Minister Židan to have only a few hundred of the largest farmers in front of him. Not to mention all the other effects that this law will have if the law currently in force works in the future. Therefore, in the SDS Group, we propose that this temporary measure, in order to allocate 40% of the value of cadastral income for 2017, be transformed into a permanent measure to allow for the survival of that small and medium-sized Slovenian farmer. More in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u85	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Tiln Bozic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In view of the fact that the law has already been presented in detail by the applicant, I am going directly to the position of the Government. The government opposes the proposal, because it considers that the solution, which has already been enacted within the mandate of this government, ensures a moderate, fair tax burden for farmers. The implementation of the proposed solution would lead to a substantial appreciation of tax obligations and thus to a constitutionally more favourable treatment of farmers' incomes vis-à-vis other undertakings engaged in the activity. We also oppose the proposal for systemic reasons, as it retroactively regulates the content already consumed and is therefore no longer to be affected. From the point of view of the Government's policy in this area, it should be pointed out that the purpose of the ZUKD-2, which you have also adopted in this mandate, was not to increase the tax burden on farmers, but to place them more comparablely in the system of public benefits and rights. For farmers in our system of agricultural and forestry activities do not need to maintain bookkeeping, which would be the basis for demonstrating actual income, but their income is estimated on the basis of the cadastral income from flat-rate assessments or, of course, flat-rate income estimates on bees in other cases. The catastronomic income is therefore an estimate of the actual income and must therefore be comparable to that of the carcase, while this principle was taken into account by all the rules governing the methods of determining cadastral income, but at the implementing level for various reasons there were large deviations from the actual level of income, as shown by the economic accounts prepared annually by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia for agricultural and forestry activities. The Act, which was in force from 1977 to 2011, is the first ZUKD, which, due to the complex process, carried out only a flat-rate valorisation of the cadastral income, so by 2011 the share of the actual income covered by the cadastral income fell below 30% of the statistically estimated income and then fell below 15% of the actual income in the coming years when the ZUKD-1 was in force due to pressure to reduce the cadastral income by 2016. For these reasons, a working group was set up in 2015 in which the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food participated, including a number of other stakeholders, professional associations and so on, and a new method of determining cadastral income was developed. Thus, cadastral income is now directly linked to the statistical assessment of income from the economic account for agriculture and forestry. In 2016, the new method of determining cadastral income was implemented by the ZUKD-2, which established that cadastral income should be assessed on the basis of the revenues of the economic account from which the revenues achieved in the industrial type of agriculture are excluded, and that costs determined above the statistical average are recognised. This reduced the revenues included in the cadastral income to a minimum reasonable extent. In addition, the new method provides for the assessment of cadastral income on the basis of the five-year average of revenues from the economic account and on a new calculation every three years. With such a solution, it was also possible to assess the cadastral income more realistically and to follow the trend of actual income without excessive fluctuations over the years. On the basis of the new calculations, the total cadastral income for the period 2017-2019 amounts to around EUR 100 million or EUR 76.5 million for the private sector, which still represents only around 30% of the average market income for agriculture and forestry, as shown in official statistics for the private sector over the last five years. In addition, it is worth noting that households have the option at any time to switch from flat-rate income to accounting management in accordance with accounting standards and to show income on the basis of actual income and actual expenditure or actual income and standardised expenditure. Therefore, the Government does not support the proposed solution because it considers that the proposed arrangement would create a sense and purpose of the ZUKD-2 and the objectives adopted by this esteemed assembly by the implementation of the regulation adopted, of course, in this mandate, at that time. For these reasons, the Government does not support and proposes to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u87	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Once again a very nice greeting to everyone! In the Desus Group, we have advocated, through all coordinations concerning cadastral income arrangements, the view that the proposal for a law must be harmonised among all stakeholders. It was crucial to us that they were coordinated with the competent ministries and that it was primarily taken care of by a small farmer. We are not aware of the deadlines and hard work of producers at a time when local self-sustainment has become not only a new trend in raising the awareness of society, how to care for its own needs or earn on the account of healthy and increasingly valued eco-products, but an urgent activation in favour of the effective development of the whole economy of the country. Therefore, it is not clear that the adoption of the last novel on cadastral income was merely for an insensitive increase in the burden on farmers. The transitional provision was then put in place meaningfully and with a view, in particular because of the concerns and concerns of farmers at the sudden increase in their obligations, although we are all well aware that at that time we had only temporary arrangements for the calculation of the cadastral income, and also with an outdated methodology and undervalued calculation. The current novelties thus allow farmers to adapt more easily to the increase of the cadastral income on bee stumps or income tax. Thus, the percentage increase is gradually divided over the next three years. The SDS proposal, of course, sets out the minimum but most desirable rate of 40% and makes it legal as a permanent imputation of cadastral income on the bee stump, only if this permanent measure cost us €45 million without a countermeasure to compensate for such a failure. On the other hand, it is quite an up-to-date proposal, which asks us in the parliamentary group whether the cadastral income on the bee tree is an excellent source for generating pre-election points, only with the difference that the solid efforts of the sectoral ministries to improve the development and progress of beekeeping in Slovenia are the result of which the current government can praise. Last but not least, at the United Nations, we won the World Bee Day, which we will celebrate for the first time on May 20th. Whether the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration or not, the Desus Group will not have a uniform position. We will vote on our conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u89	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u90	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Secretary of State, Colleagues and Colleagues! The proposal for a cadastral income law, ZUKD-2, was tabled in 2016 at an inappropriate time. Slovenian agriculture was on its knees at the time; the dairy sector had virtually fallen; from month to month, it was worse and there was no hope of a near improvement in the situation. Let them be droughts, floods, icicles, floods, then, and today, they are still draining and draining farmers financially and motivationally. The country, I can tell, is a bad mother; more a stepmother than a mother. With the introduction of tax repositories, with non-life recasts of the Supplementary Activities Regulation, with which financial and bureaucratic obligations were imposed on the holders of complementary activities. For decades, the farmland will not recover from its lust and the resulting enormous replication of its tentacles. Above all, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also set up a state-owned company called Slovenian Forest, which will be particularly damaging to smaller farms, which would be able to repair their income by forestry at least a little and ensure a long-term existence. The profit from wood, even the last Slovenian wealth, will go into the hands of the great players; those who determine who the contractors will be and where the equipment for the state company will be purchased at a rate of EUR 20 million. If the cadastral income is indeed going to rise as it was established in government law, we will have witnessed the complete collapse of Slovenian agriculture before 2020. And not only small and medium-sized farms, but also those large ones who will have to pay enormous taxes and lose a large proportion of social transfers – children’s allowances, scholarships for children – will increase their pay for kindergartens – despite the fact that they cannot survive through hard and hard work and food production due to unreasonablely low purchase prices. The price of meat in Slovenia has been at the same level for 15 years and the price of wood has practically halved due to all natural conditions. In 2020, there will be more cadastral income in the forests, an average of 260%. The Ministry of Finance with a proposal for a law on the identification of cadastral income, 2 since the beginning of its writing has been arousing mainly beekeepers as well as farmers. Christian Democrats claim that this government law was problematic both in content and in the process of adoption. The catastronomic income covered by taxation will, in line with the proposal for a commitment bill in 2020, on average – I am talking about a lower average, could say more, higher – €383 for almost €400, which means about €95 more than in 2016. In 2020, the total cadastral income covered by income tax will be higher than the base income of slightly less than €35 million, which means more than once the country's revenue. It is clear, therefore, that the country wishes to recharge the budget on farmers and does not take into account the old saying that it does not take up the army where it does not exist. The country only takes the farmer and, on the other hand, expects stable food production, high self-sustainment and satisfied and smiling farmers. Christian Democrats warn that this is an account without a tavern. Unfortunately, Slovenian farmers also do not have a strong enough advocate in the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which you should strongly resist in this situation in the government, but did not do so. The new law, which we are considering today, is a good correction and introduces what the Ministry of Agriculture should have in place at the beginning, so we will support the amendment by Members of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u91	The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u92	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! The new law before us is primarily flat-rate; flat-rate, because it does not distinguish between small and large farmers, flat-rate, because it does not look at the difference between organic farms and intensive processing, flat-rate, because it does not distinguish between livestock and plant production, let alone to choose any priorities. In Levica, of course, we want agriculture, which will first look at the welfare of people and animals, which will be directed towards organic production, and the agricultural policy, which will aim at covering those areas that are most critical. In this way, I focus mainly on the current production of vegetable food. If we look at the numbers, there's nothing exciting about them. 73% self-sufficient in grain supply, 41.7% self-sufficient with potatoes 54.8% self-sufficient with fresh fruit 44% self-sufficient. Most of these things, with the exception of Southern fruit and so on, could be grown in Slovenia, but they would need an appropriate agricultural policy that would encourage the production of this food. At the same time, we should also need an appropriate food policy to point out that Slovenians eat a few times too much meat and meat products that are a factor for various civilizational diseases and, on the other hand, they consume only 65% of the recommended daily intake of fresh fruit and vegetables after various studies. This law overlooks all these factors, and in Levica we are confident that Slovenian agriculture will not be resolved by such helicopter actions for a few months before the elections, but by a systematic and targeted agricultural policy. We will vote on our own conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u93	The word shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vojka Shergan for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Members has come up with the solution that the transitional provision, which provides that the cadastral income and flat-rate income assessment on the bee are to be classified as 40 % in 2017 as a permanent provision. It is said that the 40% allocation of cadastral income and flat-rate income estimates on bee stumps are applied not only in 2017 but also in all subsequent years. With regard to cadastral income, it is nevertheless necessary to clarify that cadastral income replaces the actual shown income and therefore, in the light of the constitutional principle of equal treatment of persons in a comparable economic situation, it is essential that it is as realistic as possible. Catastrophe income is therefore an estimate of actual income and must therefore be comparable to it. To date, this principle has been followed by all the rules governing methods of determining cadastral income. In accordance with the recommendations and in line with all stakeholders, the adopted Cadastre Income Act has established a new methodology, which establishes the cadastral income by taking into account the direct value of production, as shown by the economic accounts for agriculture and forestry, which are prepared annually by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia and are official information on the economic situation in agriculture and forestry. Between 2013 and 2016, cadastral income was greatly undervalued, with only around €39.5 million for the private sector and less than 15% of the private sector's real market income. In order for the year of implementation of the new method, i.e. in 2017, there would not have been an excessive leap in the amount of flat-rate income which would have an impact on the sudden increase in obligations and the limitation of rights, the law would have regulated the transitional period after which the cadastral income approached the real level gradually by assigning only 40% of the new estimated value to the land in 2017, meaning even lower cadastral income than in 2016. In 2018, 55% and in 2019, 75% of the new estimated amount. With 2020, when calculations need to be re-calculated in order to include changes in the economy of agricultural and forestry activities in previous years, the cadastral income will begin to be taken into account in full. That's what it says, 2020. On the basis of data for 2015, it was estimated that the new cadastral income method would set it at a total of around EUR 100 million, or for land owned by natural persons totalling around EUR 76.5 million, which still represents only around 30% of the average private sector market income for agriculture and forestry in 2011 to 2015 and less than a quarter of the private sector’s market income for agriculture and forestry, as shown by statistics for 2016, when estimated to total around EUR 335 million for the whole country. This share is therefore still significantly lower than the share of real market income recorded by the cadastral income on the basis of the ZUKD by 2010 at between 40 and 50 %, given the full amount of cadastral income. In no way can it be claimed that the new method of cadastral income imposes excessive burden on farmers with taxes and contributions or that the new method has made the social situation of Slovenian farmers worse. The applicant submits that the proposal for amendment of the ZUKD-2 follows the principle of fairness and reasonable or moderate taxation and will ensure that Slovenian farms are not overly burdened by taxes and contributions and will be able to exercise rights from public resources in accordance with their actual social situation. However, on the basis of the findings and the facts cited by the Government, it can be concluded that taking account of the proposal would mean that income is not assessed on a realistic basis but is set at a significantly lower level. The Government considers that the new method of determining cadastral income is appropriate to approximate the real level of income, of course, provided that the full amount calculated is taken into account. However, accounting for only 40% of the share is inappropriate, as this would mean accounting for less than 10% of the real income. Such a solution is not appropriate, as it would result in an unjustifiedly more favourable treatment of one segment of persons engaged in an activity, which is contrary to the essential principle of equal treatment. It should be mentioned that when the Minister adopts the law, if KD is determined only at 40% of the KD actually established, the smallest farmers will not be burdened, the largest farmers will be burdened. However, it is also necessary to mention the rules in the Income Act, the threshold from which households are considered to be farm households and are liable for the payment of income from cadastral income is set at EUR 200. The current proposal of EUR 200 of the total annual income has been set out to place between 70 and 90 thousand households in Slovenia, whose members own agricultural and forestry land, between 130 and 160 thousand of their members each year. Which means only a quarter of them are in excess of 200 euros to pay their income. It's said to be a very low percentage, yes. In the SMC Group, we estimate that a transitional period is properly set up by 2020, when calculations will have to be re-calculated in order to take account of the full amount of the changes in the agricultural and forestry economy in previous years. Of course, as a result of that Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, the amendment of this Cadastrian Income Identification Act is not suitable for further consideration and will vote that it is not appropriate. And I would also like to add that this new methodology has not actually come to light when we are already trying to fix and change. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u95	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u96	Thank you for saying so, President. Dear colleagues, Secretary of State! The main objective of the proposed law amending and supplementing the Cadastrian Income Law is to establish a fair and reasonable or moderate tax burden on Slovenian farmers. Catastrophe income is calculated as the difference between the market value of possible production and costs. The market output for each type of actual land use shall be determined as the average value of production in producer prices from the economic account, according to the latest known data for the last five years prior to the year of the determination of the cadastral income for each type of production. When monitoring and reviewing the report on the state of agriculture, food, forestry and fisheries, it is easy to establish that the situation in agriculture has deteriorated over the past five years from year to year, as evidenced by the graphs and tables presented in the request for a reference to this item on the agenda, where the law is also described in more detail. The number of agricultural holdings is declining, as is the number of employees in the agricultural sector, and the age structure on farms is not improving, and the average age of farmers is 57 years, which is more than one year in 2013. The volume of plant production is decreasing as it is highly dependent on natural conditions. The prices of agricultural crops have fluctuated considerably over the last period, higher prices have reached plant crops, but with much reduced production due to poor weather conditions. Despite the average deterioration in the agricultural situation, the current government adopted the Cadastrian Income Act in 2016, with an annual increase in the flat-rate assessment of market income in agriculture activities. The main solution of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is in this law, is that the transitional provision in 2017, the cadastral income, is attributed to 40 %, is also defined as a permanent provision in all subsequent years and does not change to 100 % in 2020. This measure would ease the trend of deterioration in the situation in agriculture and in the parliamentary group we believe that this is one of the possible ways to resolve the status of the Slovenian farmer and we will support this law. Here is the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Tillen Bozič. I assume that the debate with him will be as good as it was with the previous item on the agenda, but Mr Bozič is a financier who will look at the issue mainly from a financial point of view. I would also like to see Mr Dejan Židan present in the Chamber, unfortunately he is not, which is not the last issue of the Slovenian farmer. I don't know – since it's Friday – whether you and Mr Polanič are already in a masonry or on some rural tourism, but it would be interesting to hear his opinion and, above all, the impressions that we present in the Slovenian Democratic Party on the basis of the numbers on the basis of the graphs in this request and we believe that the situation is such that it is necessary to discuss it. This law, which is currently before us, must also be seen through the eyes of the law that we have proposed earlier. It is not true, as it will be heard, that we are giving relief through this proposal or that we are advocating for larger farmers, that is exactly the opposite, that is what the Social Democrats are doing, and that is what Minister Dejan jeedan's proposals are doing. If you look at the novels and amendments to the laws, including the law that has been passed and that we are trying to change in the Slovenian Democratic Party today, it is not in the direction of greater benefits for larger farmers, but, as I said before, this law should be seen as a law that has been introduced in addition to the Income Act, which we have dealt with in the previous agenda, and where we are raising the threshold from 200 to 500 euros. But since you have mainly announced that you will not support the previous law in the vote today, the result will be that the harvest of this meeting, despite the fact that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are trying to help both of us legally, especially those small farms, which are becoming increasingly smaller – interesting despite the fact that in the coalition contract you have written down how you will manage agriculture, especially small family farms, that more young people will decide to take over farms after the 2014–2018 mandate – we see on the basis of real numbers that this is not the case and that the average age of farmers on farms will be further increased in the mandate of this government. If both laws, notably the Income Act, had been adopted, they would have done much to relieve small farmers and prevent smaller farms in the countryside from ending the family farm. However, we know what the situation is in the area where older farmers or where they have already moved on, the elderly are no longer able to regulate farms, surroundings, all areas, young people today have jobs when they get out of work, so much so that they can go to the meadow to arrange pastures when you go to the woods, but the story is quite different. And when the state still places such burdens as we have seen in this law, of course this is the reason why young people do not choose to take over farms. This is a shame, of course, because while some strike, others pick up crops from the fields, although it is not such a season at the moment, I said in a parable, but still; those of whom we are talking about today in this law, in part also in the previous law, are people, citizens and citizens who care about what we have to eat; in short for the food we live on every day. Unfortunately, this is also the case, and it is clear here that the purpose of this law is that the main burden on farmers falls within the mandate of the future government. For 2017, this cadastral income has somehow been expected to raise EUR 11 million less, EUR 10 million less, but for 2018 more than € 18 million more than in 2017. In short, we are then somewhere on the number where we were before the launch of 2016, in 2019 an additional 15 million will come from this title and in 2020 an additional 19 million will come from it. In short, the main thing, if we say 34 million euros, or if we add up to 11 million euros, 45 million euros, will fall to the government that will come after June of this year. People don't care who accepted something, it's practice, but when they see the actual situation in their account, when they see the bill when they see the income tax – who's to blame if it's not all right? Of course, the current government is to blame, and it will be the government that will then be in power, whether the Social Democrats will be members of the government that will come or not. It's the government that's going to be to blame. Everyone will say that the government has accepted it. Of course, the government has accepted it, but the former government has accepted it and it is being paid for by the former government. In short, if we were so confident that this is a positive measure, that it is a measure that brings something to the citizens, in this case to farmers, and, of course, if this is a measure that brings something to them, it is likely that this measure will also bring such a positive measure to the one that has taken such a positive action, then it would not be a 100 % measure that will be applied in 2020 to the mandate of the next government, that if something goes wrong, that of course we will not be blamed. In short, the law before us is somehow linked to the Income Act, which was earlier, where we raised the threshold from €200 to €500, which is actually a job for small farmers, not for large ones that own any Pomgrad or Panvito. In short, for all these reasons, we will also support this proposal, which we have tabled, in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u97	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr Tomaž Lisec, representative of the proposer, has the floor as the first in tradition.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u98	Thank you, President, for your word. First, let me say that I was looking forward to the position of the Group of Social Democrats, and I did not see it coming. As with the major debates on important agricultural issues, we miss the debate of the Minister for Agriculture of Magi. Diana jeedan, but she's not. There has been no position of the Group in the area covered by the Social Democrats for several years. I once said, and I may repeat myself once again that since 2012, we have two pillars in agriculture: natural disasters and mags. Diana jeedan. Once again, unfortunately, every year we find that natural disasters are very bad for Slovenian agriculture, but obviously not only will we find that Minister Mag. Dejan Židan is something bad for Slovenian agriculture, but he is not even in Slovenian agriculture, where he should be, or where his client should come. But it's true that I just saw that they put the law into the procedure, it says that themselves, so I don't know what this coalition is, the hemp farming law. It is so obvious that hemp is the topic that will entertain us in one way or another before the end of this term and we will be saving Slovenian agriculture with hemp. Obviously, if these are the priorities of a party that controls the agricultural sector. Now, on a slightly more serious subject why we decided to try again to try to do something about the Cadastrian Income Law for the Slovenian farmer, both by this law and earlier by the Income Act, when we wanted or still hope to help raise the cadastral income from EUR 200 to EUR 500, this is the case. It is called the first agricultural assessment for 2017. Unlike which party, which is the next term will no longer be in such a very large form, we can read very seriously in the SDS Group, what this report brings both in comparison to the last year, the last two years, the last three years or comparisons that are in it – what happened to Slovenian agriculture after 2000. And a few short grades. Factor income, the difference between 2016 and 2017 – 10 %. Minus. Of all agricultural production 10 %. Minus! Reduction in the number of farms between 2000 and 2016 – minus 20%. This is a real picture that all of your floscules about real bases and economic calculations, how everything is super nice for a Slovenian farmer, vary. I would like to ask you, Your Honor, those who spoke about the real basis of the economic calculations, when you were last with a farmer, either this or with a smaller Slovenian farmer, or a medium-sized farmer, or perhaps a large farm company on a visit. I have had the opportunity and, for what I also thank from this city, to be at the Chamber of Commerce with people working with agricultural and food companies. However, I must say that their assessments were not as fantastic as the fantastic words of the representatives of this government and of this coalition, because there is indeed a natural disaster here that affects the farmer, but that politics fights for the Slovenian farmer. No! No! Their wishes were much better; to help us more realistically and not rely on economic calculations. So whoever talks about factor incomes and the volume of agricultural production, as well as the reduction in self-sustainment in recent times, could read at least our law seriously and perhaps try not only to understand it but also to support it. Unlike customers who talk a lot about agriculture – well, there is no more now, at least the customers who run the agricultural sector – we are monitoring and working in the agricultural field. Just look at what we have invested from 2012 until now only in the field of cadastral income. First, in 2012, the law, or in 2013, where one previous government had already sought to raise the cadastral income after another methodology, we then, on the basis of the law and on the basis of previous urgent meetings of the Committee on Agriculture, said that a maximum of 10% could be raised from the cadastral income. We made a proposal for an extended period of time for this transitional period, and even then Minister Židan himself had only so much courage he said: “Yes, because we do not have a methodology at all, not just for one year, let us extend this transitional period for two years.” In short, Minister Židan spent another year lighting up in a series of headlights and lights, but he did not do it within a year, and he won another additional year to win the prize to do so. But when we thought that after two or three natural disasters hit us in 2012 and beyond each year, that this stampede in the field of agriculture would somehow calm down, farmers were awarded the Cadastrian Income Act. Signed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Ministry of Finance – Minister Dejan Židan quietly! On one occasion, he even made a public statement about how he was on the Agriculture Council and how he was against this law, but he was a member of the Government, who denied the conclusions of the Agriculture Council of the Republic of Slovenia, which had been alerted to what would happen. On multiple segments. Not only in this segment that we are talking about today, but how much the cadastral income should be; or 200 or 500 euros under the Income Act or 40 or 100 % of the calculated value. No! No! He was quiet, he didn't do anything, and then he'll say that the next government will handle it. Now allow me to respond to some of the facts that the predecessors have warned about and perhaps try to deny them. The Secretary of State said that this law, the applicable Cadastrian Income Act, brings a fair burden on the farmer. Mr Secretary of State, I would agree with this opinion if we supported our law and said that 40 percent is a true figure, not a hundred percent. Why? You yourself wrote in the draft law, the Cadastrian Income Law, how you will affect the Slovenian farmer. I quote from your law: "The commitment will be reduced by around €10 million in 2017 in the light of the proposed transitional period; in 2018 it will increase by around €11 million; in 2019 it will increase by around €15 million in 2018 and in 2020, by around €19 million in 2019. Overall, in 2020, the cadastral income covered by income tax will be slightly lower than the current EUR 35 million, i.e. more than 1 times higher. But of course in the manner of what we care about the future, important that we are here today in warm, what we care about, what Slovenian farmers do, important that we are warm, the government adopts the law before we leave these parliamentary seats, nothing has happened, but we have predicted what will happen, because this is the leading economic calculation. Because that's what we call an economic calculation! So farmers are worth as much in Slovenia as an economic calculation is made for them. Then it was said that the Act on the enforcement of cadastral income was a systemic solution. I have here material on the treatment of that system law, when, above all, the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber talked about the problematic methodology, the growth coefficient, about certain other numbers that are in this law, but the government or coalition cylindrical has been grinding further and has not accepted anything. Even in the SDS Group – and I think the New Slovenia Group – we have proposed certain amendments, but nothing happened. Also, once again, the Minister of Agriculture was then the Minister against agriculture. Then it was said, yes, because in 2020 it will be, and in the meantime we will review again. But, Your Honor, let me warn you that by 2020, Slovenian farmers have to survive somehow, not wait for you to decide in 2019 whether the methodology is the right one. Even more worrying, as the representative of the largest coalition party says, I quote, “The new methodology has not yet come to life and would have changed it already.” Yes! Because it is wrong on the basis of the numbers you proposed in your proposal for a law that will burden the Slovenian farmer in the field of cadastral income. And I really don't want to spread the debate beyond the topic called cadastral income, which may only touch on income, which we have already talked about a little more before, but believe me, this law alone would give some positive impetus to Slovenian agriculture; in relation to the previous law, the Income Act, a farmer would probably think a little more optimistic about 2020, but not to think about whether it will even be worth working on. For when we speak of cadastral income, we talk about money, we talk about income. And we're talking about what? About social transfers that are linked to everything that a farmer creates and what a farmer has to pay. Depending on this, children's allowances, scholarships, and that I do not list all social transfers. But instead of supporting this law, says the Secretary of State, yes, if he is not satisfied with the cadastral income, he should manage the bookkeeping, which is another option. Great! Rather, let us give all our farmers, in addition to reading 5,000 legal, legal, and accounting acts.Oh, my God! Sounds nice, yeah, bookkeeping, and we'll leave you alone. But go first Janez Novak, farmer, or to a large farm, and ask them what is the biggest problem of Slovenian agriculture. Fully collected procedures where they deal with each matter of whether they respect the law or respect the regulation, or respect the rule of law, and then unfortunately the vast majority of farmers find out – what? One rule states that their fence is 10 centimeters too large, that the cubic meters or centimetres are somewhere else wrong, and on the third case, again, there is a measuring unit that pushes it out. Because it does not follow, as it is said, the real basis or economic calculations prepared by officials at the Ministry of Finance, but mainly at the Ministry of Agriculture. Next thing you know, a member from Desus said that the law must be harmonised among all. Honourable Member Desus, the law currently in force in the field of cadastral income, was not in line with everyone. And here we are not even the smallest problem Members of the SDS, which we voted against at the time, but once again I think Members of the New Slovenia. Read a letter from the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, read the report of the Committee on Agriculture in the State Council, and I will not continue to list what is in this material that has alerted you to what will happen in 2020 if this 100 % cadastral income is brought to life as a real basis. Then it was said, yes, that's the pre-election point. No, honourable Member Desus, we are dealing with cadastral income in 2012, but when we proposed the law, there were no elections, we proposed the law in 2016 when there was no elections, and we propose it in 2018, because we have, in addition to the pre-election time that you will obviously now be referring to when opposition proposals are to be made, and we have a real picture based on the report on the state of agriculture. Members of the United Left or Mr Mencinger, I apologize, Mr Mesec, it is difficult to speak because yes, someone who, when I read his CV, does not really have contact with agriculture and it is a pity to say so; except when he said that systemic solutions should be done, and I respectfully ask that they propose a system law in the field of agriculture as soon as possible, and believe me, if it is indeed systemic and will go for the benefit of the Slovenian farmer, we have no problem in the SDS Group of Ambassadors not to support it. [[…]] And that's how we wait for their helicopter action, whatever that means. SMC's mission, once again, said economic calculations are crucial. Tell that to Slovenian farmers, and they will probably be very happy to see you on your next visit. You said a new method. We don't go into the methodology, we then pointed out the method that it wasn't assigned. Our proposal has already been given a transitional period in 2013 and we have warned, like other stakeholders, that you like to refer to as not a complete methodology. But today, in this methodology that you say has not yet come to life, we would have already changed it, we are not going down. We only drop this percentage, and this percentage financially means what I said that after 2018 Slovenian farmer will only be in the field of cadastral income at a disadvantage. For everything else that is worse, and – dear colleague Vojka, I know that you are a member of the Committee on Agriculture – read again the report on the state of agriculture. The front page is what? Natural disasters! Perhaps only a mere call to all those who are members of the Committee on Agriculture and who are often there talking about what should be, I have asked the question of what is going to happen with this unfortunate resolution of agriculture after the last storms and whether the Government is preparing measures to save agriculture after the storms and what is going to happen and when this system law will be. I quote the Government's response: “Introductoryly, it must be found that the 2003 National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters, which systematically regulates the area of disaster management.” And the answer to the third question raised was: When will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepare a system law on disaster management? So much for systemic rescue! Systemic Law 2013, first page report on agricultural status – what? We accept an intervention law every three, four months at the Ministry of Agriculture, even some officials who hope to speak to me say, kindly ask you to stop with the intervention laws, and give them a systemic solution, and when I tell them that when we propose to the SDS Intervention Law Group, you are not going through any systemic law, as the government will answer, I quote: “If the law pursues the right goals, but this government will prepare systemic solutions.” And maybe three more phrases of bluffing and philosophizing in between. So much for how this government prepares for agriculture and how it solves the situation of agriculture. There is no minister, the Ministry of Finance says, we are led in the field of agricultural policy by financial calculations and economic calculations, and the Ministry of Environment and Space says, yes, because all of them have natural disasters, and we have a 2003 law, which makes it easy to save legislation and to remedy the measures that natural disasters create. And then comes in 2018 to the National Assembly.Proposal of a law on additional measures to remedy the consequences of the overcrowding of the population of subscribers, the Government's proponent. Do you even remember when he was on his pharynx? Were you in Postojna at the time, Beer? Four years, three years too late, and he'll be there for the mag's pay phone. Dean Jedhan and he's going to say that this government is saving the underdogs. Figo! He's been sitting in the office for three years, and then he comes in with a marriage, he paints twice, and he's the biggest solver of agriculture. On the other hand, there is no support for any bill drafted by the opposition, no system law, the Agriculture Act, the Agricultural Lands Act – nothing. Here's where the regulation changes, the minister comes in with the law, and he's the world's loser. Thus, Your Honor, agricultural policy is not being resolved. It is not being resolved – and I will conclude with this – that the Minister is silent when it comes to important agricultural issues, to take pictures of the minorities that he is also processing with the help of European funds, that the Ministry of Environment and Space says he has nothing to do with the field agriculture and that the Ministry of Finance says, yes, farmers, work and pay taxes. That way we can no longer go to Slovenia! From this city I guarantee – and I will be more selective and populist if you want, because today the entire coalition is already amongst itself a bet, who is more populist – if the SDS Group gets the opportunity or manage the agricultural sector or at least co-formulate it, such laws will be easily adopted in the first six months if the real majority in the Slovenian Parliament is found, which will be obedient to the Slovenian farmer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u99	Mr Tilen Bozič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. I'd just like to add a few extras. This solution, which was introduced by the ZUKD-2, which was confirmed by the coalition of this National Assembly, has been introduced in my conduct with considerable prudence and broad cooperation. In the course of the meeting, which was then in the National Assembly, you also mentioned the Agricultural and Economic Chamber of Slovenia, it was acknowledged that many of their proposals, comments and so on were taken into account and also included in those final solutions. That is why, at the outset, I mentioned in my position — what is also in the government’s position — it is said that it was adopted with a high consensus. Second thing, I'd say very simplistic about how things work. So it's either taxing itself or eventually taxing itself, if we look at it this way, will tax about 35% of what can somehow be calculated to somehow be some kind of income. It is then deducted if we go to the level of the individual, the social contributions, the discounts are also deducted, and that is the basis from which the tax is charged. Such effective tax rates that take place there are said to be very low in the area of farmers. That is why I will also make one small bold claim, which is probably not so bold in terms of circumstances and how the industry is doing that taxation at this point in my opinion is not a key factor in whether the industry is emerging, it is said whether the number of farmers is increasing or for those large trends or movements that are taking place in the agricultural field. You mentioned Mr Lisec somehow in this sense that we should help and not look at the data. But I think that, despite the fact that this is an agricultural topic, it is always necessary to keep on the table both; it is said, both numbers and what is the substance of all this together, which then forms some awareness or a sufficient set of data, so that there can be some meaningful decisions when a long-term agricultural policy is determined. Then, in the meantime, it was also said that the situation should deteriorate from year to year. If we look at the statistical estimates, because there are no others, but these are relatively reliable, how big is this industry, if I say so. It's moving, and in recent years it's about €350 million out there. So if we look at 2009 there was about 350 million euros, if we look at 2016, which I have the latest data, it was just a little over half a billion. And that's where we're moving. But in recent years, she's gone up a bit. But it is certainly a lot of trouble in agriculture that is happening. You said yourself, "From the desire, the drought happens, it happens differently, doesn't it?" [[…]] Also lubadar, as some solutions from this area have recently been confirmed by the government. Here, however, it is worth mentioning at the annual level, if I look at a few numbers, how much of this population's actual income burden is social contributions, we come to a number of about 25 million euros. On one side. On the other hand, what is considered a social agricultural policy is said to be a family policy and so on, and on the other hand, it is said to be the same population, and about 200 million euros are left there. It is said that these ratios are about 1: 8, which also indicates some awareness of the state or government that this area is important, that farmers are important, that their activities are important, for many reasons, even strategic, when we look at self - care, and that they are also heard. So if we go to look at some subsidies, it's about 100 million euros off, if we look at what's second, what's family, what's social policy, again the remaining 100 million euros, and so on. These were kind of essential items. This is not the case, and I think this should be taken into account in this debate as well. So when we set up the whole system of how much it is intended for agriculture – promotion, assistance and so on – through different channels and then when we look on the other side in relation to the numbers you are talking about, this is the ratio between how much is being invested in agriculture and how much, in the end, after a very careful approach, given that if we look at the whole digit, only about 30 or 34% of that income will eventually be included in the tax base – but the tax is far from here – I think it is not so black anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat. Here you go, Mr. Badass.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow Members! Today we started with this law or again it is somehow on the wallpaper of the Cadastrian Income Law adopted by this government in 2016. Perhaps I will refresh those who do not know agricultural policy or agriculture. Catastrophe income represents a flat-rate assessment of income from agricultural and forestry activities. It is true that during the years 2013-2016 this cadastral income may have already been greatly underestimated. Before this law came into force, I also had many conversations with farmers, with representatives, because I was from the countryside alone, I grew up on a farm, so I know these things. I must say that farmers are not so concerned about this cadastral income itself. They are more concerned about other things that do not give the farmer the opportunity to develop to this extent, so that the farmer – especially those small farmers that we forget so many times – can live and survive from this activity. For today one or two of you must be of the household that dwells on the farm and work, even to the work. I have said many times in this hall when a farmer will live off the land and he will no longer need to work, we will win, and then the farmer will survive and be satisfied. With this proposal that SDS wants to supplement this law today, I still do not agree with it, because I do not think that this cadastral income is the biggest problem in agriculture, and I am with those who somehow suggest that it will have to wait until 2020, because this tax or cadastral income will somehow be complemented every year and will be the real picture given in 2020. But, of course, I have to stand here today on the farmers' side, because I think the attention of the country and the farmer is too small on the part of the country, although I am in this government, but I see it perhaps differently than others. Many times I talk to my colleagues, and they say: “Yes, in the countryside, but on farmers it is nice. It's good there and it's drinking." A lot of people go to visit, and so on. I believe there's good food and all that on farmers, but it takes a lot of sweat, a lot of blisters, a lot of people in this room don't even know what a sting is, I hope we still know. Farmers actually come to this, and that's when farmers know it. However, in order to better understand where these stings are coming from and how difficult it is to come to a farm income, I will try to show in three parts a little bit the division or the formation of this income. If we go first to the public sector, the state administration, we are also Members of Parliament in this bag, and I must say that money is coming here. Of course, all who work in the government deserve a salary for their work so that no one gets it wrong, but that money actually gets distributed here, and even in those institutions, directors get money — or those administrations — and the money gets distributed. In the economy, of course, the picture is very different. First you have to make the product, sell it, then get the money – of course if the money ever comes. The third group, however, would put agriculture on the farm, the farmer must first prepare the land, buy seed, sow seed, wait for a year, and this year a number of things will happen — from the cold, the torrent, the floods. [[…]] Well, after a year, there's some kind of crop. This crop can then be sold at a low price or as much as it can be used as food for some livestock’s survival, which is what it does on the farm. Again, this crop must wait a year or two to sell some livestock or whatever, if any, if it is engaged, survive and then sell. Thus, the agricultural chain is very long and, therefore, many times, especially young people today, do not choose to stay on the farm and go to work. I hope, now that we are at the border, when it is necessary to show and give more support to agriculture, and I stress again, there are other things that will need to be listened to to to the farmer, because if the farmer does not stay, there will be no rurals, and if there is no rural areas, some tourism from which Slovenia looks forward in the coming years, as the data shows, then we will all be very disappointed together, but then of course it will be too late. So I hope that all those we have or will have an influence in the next government will listen to the farmer, that things will not change for the worse, but that things will finally start to go the other way. For a farmer deserves other attention, a different status, we cannot compare it with others, for this land must be preserved. But many times we are trying in different ways, even on state forests there was a talk that those hill farms would have the opportunity to cut wood, and unfortunately this has not happened yet. I hope that this will happen and that those with some other things will be able to make some income that they urgently need. As I said at the beginning, income must be, or young people will not stay on farms and will find a job elsewhere. This must not be the goal of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I could only say that I am signing under everything my esteemed colleague Ivan Škodnik has just told us, and I repeat, the attention to the farmer by the state is too small. The country's attention to the farmer is too small. He took us through the economic logic of agricultural production and actually showed and told us where food was coming from. Today, probably a lot of people think that food comes from hypermarkets. I'm talking about food as the most important thing. I'm not gonna say raw materials. I'm not going to find the right word right now. I'm talking about the value we need to exist. Yes, now that we are talking specifically about the law prepared by colleagues and colleagues of the Slovenian Democratic Party, somehow, when I went to the brother, I said to myself, "Is Slovenia hoping to adopt this law?" I'm not going to analyze where the motivation for the authors of the law comes from, but I'm going to think about May 20th, World Bee Day. This is the great success of all of Slovenia. With many delegations, I have met with ambassadors, and I have also suggested to everyone that their/his country support this Slovenian idea. Everyone said, "Wow, good idea!" Extremely correct, respectful attitude towards this proposal or our Slovenian project at global level. And then when I gave them the flyers, very personally designed, they said wow a second time. And we did it. There have been debates and many countries have said, yes, this is a great world bee day. It could be May 20th, it could be anything else, but for us, for Slovenia, it's important that it's May 20th. Why? Every Member must know this at midnight. Because on May 20, 1734, the father of modern beekeeping was born, Slovene, Anton Janša! So, everyone said, yes, the world's bee day, but why exactly May 20th and why the Slovenian and so on. But we did it. The matter has started extremely well in the European Parliament, I can say that somehow in the direction of the first Slovenian beekeeper, today European MEP Loizet Peterlet, Slovenian beekeepers have outstanding merit here, who also have important functions at global level. Now is it about whether Slovenia hopes, or Slovenia hopes to give up this money? I think the financial effects of this law have been calculated. Because the world public is watching what Slovenia will do now that it has succeeded in this project. The project just started. It will not be completed for a long time, and I think it should never be concluded that all of us generations coming after us will understand what bees are actually doing. Yeah, they're working in black, someone's gonna say, they're not taxed. But the farmer who has them, the bees, the bees, the bees, the bees of the family, he's taxed. Are we hoping to do this? Do you hope Slovenia to give up this minimum part of the budget tide? That's all this is about. Or we'll do that again, strictly accounting, like old accountants with pencils behind their ears, with all due respect to them, and we'll calculate at the Ministry of Finance that we can't do that to her, and that's going to be a financial outage, and then maybe next time we can get Slovenia to its knees. Are we hoping to do this? That's what this is about! We don't have a lot of determination. That's why there's no reform either, because no one just hopes. That is why there is no modernisation if you want the word reform to be foreign to you and to many. I am improving; modernising the various subsystems and tax policies and the health system and the pension system and the school system and the political system. We don't hope! I don't know who we're afraid of. It's simple, and that makes me very disappointed. However, I have dealt with this issue, of course, with the Cadastrian Income Identification Act, which was adopted by the National Assembly or Coalition once in the summer of 2016. At that time, I proposed to the Finance Committee, which was, you can review the magnetogram, 28. 6. 2016 that the Ministry of Agriculture, together with the Ministry of Finance, make an informational calculation for farmers liable for cadastral income, assuming that in all years when the cadastral income increases in accordance with the law, it is said, from 2016 to 2020, when it rises by 260 % – yes, 2016-2020 by 260 % – that, however, the undertaking will present the calculation of this increase under the assumption, as I say, that the farmer will produce the same culture on some surface throughout all this time period – 2016 to 2020. She was then Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mag. Matthew Vrančnik said it was possible. Since this was nothing, I gave a written initiative to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture to do so. See, it is very important that the company, in this case the farm, further sees that it has a tax predictability, that it can also optimize its business. Here it is very important how we have a stable tax environment. How can you do business when you don't know what the taxes will be tomorrow? And in our country this happens very often, and it is virtually impossible for us in Slovenia to experience tax predictability. But it was also a time when Mr Maramor was leaving, which means, according to the rules of procedure, that then the ministry or the next minister, in this case the Minister, is not obliged to answer the Member. However, I received a response to my parliamentary initiative by the Minister for Agriculture mag. Diana jeedan. Those preparing this response were invited to the full, but only the last paragraph of the 10 paragraphs is crucial. Let me read it. “The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food agrees with the conclusions on how important it is for farmers (debtors) to be able to plan their business effectively, so we have supported the adoption of a law that will be so transparent that the agricultural economy will be able to obtain information about the height of the cadastral income. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food agrees that it is right that the owners of agricultural and forestry land are familiar with the information calculation of the cadastral income from agricultural and forestry land, but this is always the case – "but it is necessary to be aware that the data cannot be provided for the full calculation of the cadastral income of the individual debtor, as it is also dependent on data on the production of specific crops and wines." In particular, I wrote in my initiative that this informational calculation should be made on the assumption that the same culture will be on the same surface during the 2016-2020 interval. It didn't work out. Why? Because it would be right for the one who proposes to play open cards; to tell farmers, look, 2020, optimize production, optimize your business, 2020 will be your cadastral income 260% higher than today. But that's probably going to be -- probably not, surely -- some other government, and then the farmers will be mad at that government. I have this experience. It's not right, I don't like the kind of politics that you hit and then you run. As it is expected, we expect that this debate today will be a general debate on agriculture, which, after all, is also right and I miss them. Yes, I am very concerned that the number of agricultural holdings, I can say, has fallen dramatically between 2013 and 2016. On 1 June 2016, we had 70 thousand 63 farms in Slovenia, which is 2 thousand 314 less than in 2013. When I debate this in different circles, everyone throws it at me and says, "What are you worried about, because these farms are as large as they are left?" Yes, of course, I can count, although agricultural land has decreased at this time, otherwise the area has decreased by 0.1%, but it has to be a red alarm because of this. I want to know where these people have been to these 2,000 314 farms that are gone today. Okay, the answer can be simple; one part died, they were old, they were weak and they were gone, and one part went somewhere else. How he found his existence, I don't know, this crowd of people must have had a pretty big problem. We need to take care of every citizen, not just maybe the 5,000 who used to work and live from these 2 000 314 farms. And also: I miss such a very simple strategy for the development of Slovenian – I underline Slovenian – agriculture as it once was – I think in 1992 – wrote by Dr Jože Osterc, then Minister of Agriculture. I think you'll find a copy in our library, in the National Assembly. It's very simple. Of course, certain data should be updated and I like what we are in New Slovenia for – family farms. Even in European policies, in European countries, you see the strongest emphasis on family farming. At that time, what I remember, I remember for several decades, the agricultural situation has changed dramatically and dramatically. True, sometimes it was: you don't learn, you don't know, you don't make, you don't have a primary school, well, for a farmer you'll be good, at least you'll be fast at the bread. Today it's the other way around! I know some farms from my environment, from Prekmur, from the municipality, if you want, where the doctor of science has taken over the farm and has fantastic results today. So today this logic has just turned out. I conclude with another problem that the state simply cannot solve, because, as Ivan Škodnik, a respected colleague, has said, attention to the farmer by the country is too small – the problem of the game. Maybe some hunter who listens to me will be disappointed, but I don't mean to hurt him or even disappoint him. If you drive around Gorička, I invite you, you will find and notice one interesting picture where the fields are fenced with high fences with barbed wire and so on. That's amazing. That's amazing. Why? Because if people want to grow a lot on their surfaces, they need to protect these field areas from the wild with what they can do. In the National Assembly, the Civil Initiative of Shalovci brought me a thousand 250 signatures, asking the National Assembly to do something about this congregation, the Municipality of Shalovci and more. There has been virtually nothing happening despite some of the Members' questions, the urgent meetings of the Committee on Agriculture and so on. It was one measure to be precise, which is in the programme for the shooting of the high wild. This programme raised the number of high game by 10%. It looks like that, from 500 to 550. But there is simply no farming and the logical consequence is that young people leave, leave, leave villages, because it is not possible. They're waiting years and years, and if you see that you don't have an assured existence, you're packing a suitcase, and there's something else you have, and you're leaving. I conclude with my support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. Yeah, it's nice to live on a farm if you don't depend on it. I've been living on the farm my whole life, and I know that the farmer is never hungry and his family, but nothing just comes on the plate, that there's still work to be done. Food, it's the least that a farmer can afford, his family, but you have to pay for electricity, you have to buy oil, seeds, fertilizers and more. Not only does a farmer have to have a lot of knowledge. Fortunately, we already have some of the younger generations of educated people who have this knowledge, because if they want to get subsidies, it is also aid, but still, the paperwork that a farmer has to run is extremely difficult, in fact very extensive. We have previously heard that the average age of Slovenian farmer is 57 years. Worse still, there are more and more single farmers, and here I see some reality shows, how decent farmers are looking for girls. But in these years they can get more widows, older ones, and for the farm it is extremely important that the farm can go forward because it takes a lot of working time on the farm so that this farm can survive. That is why agriculture, of course, needs a stimulating policy and not one that prevents young people from staying at home and taking over the farm. Not only does a farmer have to manage agricultural machinery, even get to know himself in time, seeds and more, but the worst part is when we have a series of regulations and laws and loops and tax registers and something else, so he has to sit in his office in the evening to do this paperwork. That we don't talk and we know how much trouble they had with the connections and the tax registers and the Internet there was and so on. [[…]] Of course, large farms have income, but what happens when small farms close their activities. Large farmers or larger farmers are interested in those agricultural areas where production is easy, mechanical, no one will pick, as we say, those borders with a piece, and no one will worry that this countryside will be nice. We are also a tourist destination and have a truly unique nature, the possibility of linking agricultural activity, including with additional complementary activities, tourism and so on. But people are afraid of all the demands they have put before them, all the laws, inspections, and I don't know what else, because it's a lot of extra work, maybe for not too much income. Young people can calculate, sometimes people have stayed on a farm out of love for land, out of belonging, because they simply couldn't leave their own home land, their own farm. Today, however, they can easily calculate what is worth more because children or young people on the farm want to compare themselves with other young people who are also looking for their options outside Slovenian borders. If we really want to preserve the Slovenian countryside and also produce more food at home, then agricultural policy must be favourable to agriculture and agriculture. I'm flattered! And don't look at where she'll tax him as much as she can, in addition to all the natural disasters that have been increasing in recent years. I want Slovenia to remain so beautiful, but if – 60% of the surface is already growing in forests, which have also become ugly because of the underdogs and the acorns and the wind farm, and I don't know what else – then unfortunately this Slovenia will not be as beautiful and interesting as we want it to be and as it could be. I agree with this bill because I do not want the farmer to hit the cadastral income again, so I would say that it is no longer worth doing. In Slovenia it is already so well known that work is not worthwhile because the difference between minimum wage and social benefits is minimal. We've seen this before. The farm will also no longer pay for work because it is necessary to pay inappropriately higher taxes, cadastral income, in the event of all accidents, natural disasters. We want Slovenia to be as self-sustaining as possible, and we all know that food, water, will become increasingly strategic. With so rapid population growth and a lack of natural goods and increased natural disasters, it will be important that we produce food in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Simon Zajc has the floor to prepare Mrs Iva Dimic. Here you go, Mr. Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u108	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, a nice greeting to you all! Whenever I talk and listen to farmers, whether it is on the Committee on Agriculture, whether it is at a meeting which I regularly attend in my role as Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture, or when I meet and talk to them like this. What do they tell me or tell me what farmers are most afraid of? They're most afraid of bureaucracy! They say it's not a tax problem, if it's a fair tax, it's not a tax problem, it's bureaucracy. Catastrophe income or flat-rate income assessment is a way to avoid bureaucracy; that is, how to remove from the equation what Slovenian farmers fear the most – bureaucracy is no longer. The second question now is what is a fair tax. If the calculation is based on official data that income is, say, per hectare of 100 units – what is now a fair flat-rate estimate of this income? Is the fair flat rate of this income 100 units or is the fair flat rate of this income 40 units? What is it now that's fair? I think even if you're a farmer yourself, you have to admit it's a fair estimate of 100 units, not 40, even though 40 suits you better. If all the data shows it's 100, it's a fair estimate of 100. But then it always happens that this cadastral income is mixed up with the final tax, it starts to talk, and now the field is given me 600 euros tax. No, cadastral income is not tax, it is one of the data that will then be taken into account in taxation, of course, but there are other incomes in it, then there are reliefs, maintenance, family members and so on. In fact, more than half – I think there are 70% or 75 even – farmers will not know anything about this cadastral income. This is because they do not come in more than 200 years, and they will not be subject to a tax obligation under this heading. What happens to those where a tax obligation will arise? On average, after a full dose in 2020, they will on average increase their tax liability by 69 euros; some, of course, more, others less, but on average 69 euros. Now we still have to ask ourselves, 69 euros, okay, if you don't agree with the evaluation, then of course, there's a second option that you're going to keep books. But if you go to bookkeeping, of course, you have bureaucracy, and of course you have someone who will run these books for you, it's a real accountant, and you'll give it a quick one month's worth of this difference, which will now increase your cadastral income. So, for the vast majority, this will not be known in taxes, but for those who will, on average, 69 euros. Now for the question. Will Slovenian farmers stop farming as a result? Is this going to make a farm shut down more? And the answer is no! Farmers are already shutting down, although we have 40% of the KD. But why are they shutting down? We need to look at what Slovenian agriculture is like and where it competes. Since we entered the European Union, we have been competing with huge farmers; not those who have 2 hectares of land, but those who have one field of 200 hectares, and they bring them to that field, you can bring a mobile pack of them to that one, and they can go back and cut them, pack them, mark them, and they are already on their way. That's the problem with the Slovenian farmer! It is said that we have small farms according to the place with which we compete. Another problem is that 58% of Slovenian farms are self-sustaining, so these are farms that do not grow at all to live on the market, but are self-sustaining. What will happen to these farms in the future? Not because of KD. Yes, some of these will be extinguished because they too will find: for the first time that they are not paid for their own self-sustainment, they will not be paid for their own self-sustainment, because they will in fact get more valuable goods from traders precisely because others who are professionals are producing this in larger amounts for less money and so on. Then they'll shut it down because the young people won't take it. Because that's what you have to do next to a job, so you have to be prepared to do this is your life, your love, and that's why you're doing this. So we can expect the farms to continue to run out in the future. But it's not real information that our surface is falling, agricultural. The area even increased slightly in 2017. Because what's going on? Of course, these smaller ones shut down or decide that they will no longer be paid for, or that they no longer have health, that they have no offspring, anyhow, and then those who are professionals will take over the surface, and that is some sort of natural process that will happen and will not be stopped to some extent. This does not mean that small farms will not be able to survive, but they will have to know some things or have to adapt. They're going to have to cooperate with each other, and they're going to have to decide whether it's worth six hectares of produce, I don't know, cabbages, potatoes, whatever it takes you for a year to cover the surface, or whether they're going to figure out what kind of vegetables it's worth, which are worth more, where you can rotate for 60 days, so you don't have a whole season of one crop up and so on. In short, connect, restructure, find out what is really worth, find ways to sell yourself, not through intermediaries – here of course tourism will help, here will help. But it is this cruel reality that will happen and not because of the cadastral income, because this income will reach those who are actually professional in it and are living from it. Now, if we've been assessing this income so far, not taxed, but only income, modestly or unrealisticly, and now we decide to say, okay, reality is really that much, we recognize another 90% of the costs that are once again higher than in the real estimate, which are between 80% and 88%. So if we're going to go through these symbolic shocks now, that's fair and we have to adapt. When you go to this tax, you say, flatly, you avoid bureaucracy; you do not have books; we have done so in this reference completely, it is said, only voluntarily can you keep books, and by this change of law, when we adopted it in this mandate, we have also made it possible that no tax money is needed. Not for those who have vegetables — if they have their own. Of course, if they are dealing with others, it is a mere merchant and needs a tax box. But when he does, we make sure that he doesn't have to issue any more bills, but it goes to cadastral income. So these are the improvements that go right into the fear and into the burden that the farmer is most worried about, into bureaucracy. The bureaucracy that comes from the European Union because the European Union is giving some subsidies, and that is not really so much in our hands, at least not in this perspective, may be in the next. You have another problem in Slovenian agriculture, among other things. This week, I was, along with the President, in fact, at the presentation of the common agricultural policy after 2020, and there was a good picture of how the countries stand. The problem with the Slovenian farmer is also that there is 50% or more of the income from subsidies, it is said, not created on the market. This also points to one problem we have in Slovenian agriculture. Thus, all other countries have this different arrangement, but we do not have it yet, and this is also a major challenge, which will be for Slovenia in particular because we have three-quarters of the area where farming is limited, this will be a major challenge for Slovenia. However, I think that this cadastral income, even when it comes to full enforcement, given that it takes on a five-year average and also takes into account the bad harvests so that it will not be really problematic, but that we are getting closer to what really comes on one hectare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to prepare Mr Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Ouch, cadastral income, agriculture in Slovenia! I'm supposed to have a little more time here, so I'm going to go through things that I think need to be clarified. The Secretary of State said I listened to him in the office that the cadastral income was consistent. That's not true. At the meeting of the Committee, it was made clear that the cadastral income in 2016 was not in line with the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber, nor with the Union of Forest Owners, nor with the Trade Union of Farmers, nor with the Council for Agriculture and Rural Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia. It was coordinated at certain points, at certain points. But they didn't support him; they supported him in the work of agriculture, and they didn't support him in the work of forestry. What I find most unheard of is that the tax which will enter into force in 2020 is being raised by 260 % in 2020, and the cadastral income is being raised. In this national assembly, I experienced what another government had accepted. This was the 16,000 state pensions that were raised in 2011 from 1. 1. However, 2012 came into force. It was a shock, and so it will be in 2020 if this matter is not corrected. And there's one more thing. The growth coefficient is defined on 50-year-old cards, although we have the possibility of painting, the possibility of relief, examination, calculation of the growth coefficient based on 50-year-old cards. Which is sad, isn't it? With all the modern technology they have. Why are the farms shutting down? Because they're competing with big farmers. Yeah, who are the big farmers? Those supported by Minister Židan – large agricultural companies!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u112	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Honourable Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! In this reference to the National Assembly, both on the committees and in this Chamber, we talked a lot about agriculture. Also on the cadastral income to which this point is intended for the proposer of the Slovenian Democratic Party, presented in the introduction by his colleague Lisec. Surely this mandate will mark agriculture, in particular in a negative form. Let me first touch on this cadastral income where the Ministry or Government claims to have been in line with all stakeholders. I'm sure that's not true. What the Government, or the Minister, should burden the Ministry in this mandate, places a burden on it after 2020 and, of course, all other things lose agriculture in this mandate, in the 2014-2020 mandate. When this mandate began, we had over 72 thousand farms in Slovenia. In three and a half years, we lost more than 2,000 600 farms. I read statistics to close the doors to agriculture in Slovenia about two farms a day. I repeat, when we talk about agriculture, in Slovenia they stop farming a little more than two farms a day. In our mandate, these governments, Minister Židan, Slovenia lost more than 2 000 400 farms. To make it easier for citizens and citizens to understand me, and from this morning to this evening, when we conclude this meeting, they have stopped farming about 2 farms. That's a fact. I did not write that in mind, but this is indicated by the data, official data of the Republic of Slovenia. In short, we still have little more than 69,000 farms in Slovenia today. Of this, little more than 28 thousand farms are less than three hectares. However, the average farm rose from what we have already heard today that one of the farms that closed down agriculture went to a larger farm, increasing to 6.9 hectares. There are barely 130 farms in Slovenia, which are more than 100 hectares, and only 22 farms, which are larger than 300 hectares. Since we compare ourselves most often with the European Union, only 0.2% of our farms are comparable to Europeans. Why am I talking to the Europeans? In 2014, we started when the mandate began, including a new perspective for rural development 2014-2020 in the Republic of Slovenia. All year long, this perspective has been being prepared by a respected minister whose mandate has closed the doors of 2 000 400 farms, who has repeatedly spoken to the committees to get a quality perspective so that many farms can run for these European funds, where there will be about 75% of European money and 25% of our Slovenian money. We are in 2018, the election year, and we have absorbed less than 40% of these funds. Speaking of small farms, why am I talking about how much we've pumped? The Minister ensured that many farms could be seen on the tenders. I often speak in the National Assembly to get a frame of image in Brussels and draw a picture ourselves within the frame of the picture. When our agricultural experts drew a picture for our farmers, they drew a picture so that many would not see it on these invitations. If I look at this a little differently, I often feel that these calls are only prepared for some large systems. I don't think that's right. Therefore, it is also one of the indicators of how many farms have ceased farming. When we spoke recently on a committee on aid to small farms worth EUR 5,000, the agency, at the request of the Ministry, prepared 6,000 farms with a comparative area of between 3 and 6 hectares. Time has shown that far fewer farms have applied for this invitation to tender than anticipated. One rough estimate is that more than €10 million will remain on this call; and the European 75% of our money will remain. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we keep reminding that the Ministry would try to leave this lower limit for at least 0.5 or half hectares so that these smaller farms could still apply at this call. Of course, there is no hearing, but I feel again — and I don’t think this feeling is fooling me — that this money is ready for a bigger system. In order not to be misunderstood, we certainly need a large farm in Slovenia, but all these small farms, whose average size, I repeat, is 6.9 hectares, and that we have 28 000 farms smaller than 3 hectares, I do not think we are going to grow larger than the system, but that by closing these agricultural doors on small farms we are growing in rural areas. That's not what I'm talking about, but that's what the data shows. Since I come from Celjska, I have recently read the information to heal over 100 hectares of land in the celery area per year. 100 hectares of agricultural land that passes from agricultural land to forest. Because I am right in the woods – to save many of those small farms that I have mentioned so many times today that they have closed their doors, they could also be saved by putting these mountain farms, small farms that cannot live exclusively from agriculture, in the management of between 100 and 200 hectares of the state forest. I think these farmers on these farms would be the best master of this state forest. And that's not what we've been able to do in this term! Of course, the Minister with his team establishes Slovenian National Forests, which will give 20 million Slovenian citizens and citizens. Now we hear sad stories about the success of this company and about the success of the Slovenian forest! Do you know who's most guilty? Lubadar. And not the one in the woods, but the one outside the woods. That is why I find it unfair, honourable Members and Members, when we talk about the cadastral income that has been inconsistent with all stakeholders, but what we are talking about is that when this minister, this ministry or this government will no longer be burdened after 2020. I don't think it's right. We have lost the Teran in this mandate, and the Minister is only talking about filing an action; the terrace is no longer and the suit is filed. For the future, he imposed a strong cadastral income on the Slovenian farmer, which he will bear after 2020. To protect Slovenian farms, the Slovenian farmer, I invite you to support the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Surely, however, this proposal is such that it can be supplemented at what point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. First of all, I must share my disappointment with all those who find that agricultural policy cannot be driven out of the minister's office or by bureaucrats. Each such attempt certainly brings more problems than benefits to each other, and in particular more problems for those agricultural economies that are struggling from day to day to survive on this unsettled market. Today I have listened to such and different discussions concerning cadastral income, but cadastral income is the basis for calculating income. So it's a tax. In any case, it is an additional burden on agricultural holdings. Someone says yes or says no – it is. If you go to ask the agricultural economies, they'll be able to tell you this simply: that we have to pay for this when they calculate it, send it to us, we have to pay for it. It's a tax. And don't talk about deceiving people with such and different walks, with such and different strangers and so on. The farming population understands very well what tax means, what it means to pay. I hope those of you who have written this law and accepted it are aware of it. I hope you're aware of that. Now look. First of all, if we are talking about agriculture, it would be very appropriate, by my personal assessment, that all those who voted for such a law also know what agriculture is, in fact, that you know what the agricultural economy is in fact. I come from the Slovenian Mountains, I was born on my own on a farm, I was proud of it, I was proud of it, and when I was born, we were 6 children, we had 2 cows at home, and 4 pigs had some chickens and some fruit. Of this practically very healthy lived the whole family, we had no opportunity, there were no machines, there was nothing, we produced everything with our hands, but this is not a key issue now; today, if one agricultural economy wants to survive, it must go with time and must go with technology. And in my environment of Slovenian mountains, which is a hilly area, not to mention a hilly area, we cannot talk about large farms because they are not. These are simple medium-sized farms or even small farms. Now what I want to say is, first, if the farmer has livestock, he must have adequate stables for this, according to his household, where this livestock will be stationed, then all the infrastructure he needs left, so that he can store the hay, he can store whatever it takes to survive through the winter. That's part of it. And it's got nothing to do with it. Then it must have. These are investments. [[…]] Then he must have machines, machinery, if he wants to be able to compete as much on the market as he can. He's got nothing to do with it. He's got to give his stakes again. Not to talk about natural bites, problems, floods, frostbite and so on and so forth. And do you know when a farmer gets one cent of money left to him? Now I've told you what he needs to have, if he wants to work, and most people don't understand it, and then sometimes I talk to which bureaucrat he says, don't tell me, Marian, that because he has two tractors. You know what big tractors he's got, and you know what good lawn mowers he's got? But he didn't ask himself that he didn't buy it because he wanted it, but because it had to work, and it was his stake, from which he had nothing, just obligations and burdens. Thank God those who adopt agricultural policy are aware of this. I told that bureaucrat, my dear man, you didn't earn one tractor in your life, not that you're talking about why he has two tractors because you don't know what this is about. And these people are taking our agricultural policy from some offices and driving past these farms, where they have one or two tractors, and they're getting rich. I mean, if this is how we talk about agriculture and agricultural policy, then something is wrong with us – not with me because I know what it means. The second thing, respected colleagues and colleagues, is now every small farm of great importance when we talk about self-sustainment. Do you know where they are with my self-care? At 41%, somewhere around there – this data is not exactly accurate because I'm not sure, but I think between 40 and 50. Do not let anything in this society happen! And you see what time we live in. That we may be closed to our borders, that we do not have access — what will happen at that time? That is why it is important that every small farm survives also in the Slovenian Mountains, including in the Šentilj municipality, even in the Slade Vrh – where I am at home – as well as in Koroškem, which is hilly, where there is a hilly area. Every farm, that's the most important thing! This should be done by agricultural policy here in Slovenia; but vice versa! Apparently, the Jew and his team are taking this story this way so that all the small farms will fail. With this cadastral income and with this law it proves this. These little burdens, because big farmers will survive easier than these little ones. But it is crucial for us to raise self-care and if we work on it, then this is the right approach and I do not think it is in the Slovenian Parliament, which could think otherwise. Then there's something wrong with him. We have to do this, and that's why it's important for every square inch of our land to grow on it either potatoes or corn or whatever. We cannot talk about a strategy, Austria, Germany and where we have only a plain – if you are looking – or Prekmurje, Pomurje and so on. There is nothing like farming here, where I live, in Slovenian Gorica or Koroškem and so on. There are many such places in our Slovenia. Those who expose agricultural policy should be aware of this and should properly organise the whole story, not in the way it is. Today you could see for yourself and be witnesses of the living; shameful, corrupt, and unacceptable and untasteful. Social Democrats have a Minister for Agriculture, and today they have no position in this law! This is a shameful act, the question of whether this has ever happened in the National Assembly. Mr. Tillen Christmas, you tell the Prime Minister that this is an unacceptable act. They have a Minister of Agriculture, and they didn't even have a position here today. Look at how many of them are here in Parliament. A sad, sad truth and such want to set up a agricultural policy for us. Don't joke, please! Then everything is lost in advance. Everything lost in advance. We need to raise our self-care. We need to be aware of this, and we all need to step down together, and once again, please, for God's sake, let's not fight, let's walk together, where it's necessary for us. Since this is not just about us, it is also about our children and our grandchildren that they can survive. We cannot and do not have the right to be so corrupt that we think only of ourselves. We also need to be aware that we will ensure survival for those tribes that follow us. For me, that's extremely important. That means self-sustainment. Ensure self-sustainment; not 40%, but 95%. This should be the philosophy of thinking of the one who sets up agricultural policy. That should be the philosophy of thinking. And then we wouldn't have any problems here and we wouldn't be fighting about this cadastral income and that we should be putting this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party now. We would not have problems because we would have a strategic approach — those who have to exercise in their hands at the moment. The Slovenian Democratic Party would support the 110% of what I have just been talking about. It supports, supports, and supports. So I expect you not only to excuse yourself, but what you've done strategically will be good. I'm sure it came from the office and if it came from the office, it wasn't good. It is certainly not good because it is not in line with those who are key stakeholders. These are our agricultural holdings. These are our agricultural holdings. I hope that I have now said very briefly those key things that all those who should exercise in your hands — and this is this coalition and this government — realize, and if you are aware of this, then you will also support the proposal of our law, where we have written down the main solutions. And the main solution to this law is that the transitional provision, in 2017, that cadastral income and flat-rate income estimates on bees are attributed to the master at 40 %, in 2017 the cadastral income, the flat-rate income assessment of Aja, 40% I apologize, is defined as a permanent provision. [[…]] This is that key sentence: as a permanent provision. It is said that the 40% allocation of cadastral income and flat-rate income estimates on bee stumps are applied not only in 2017 but also in all subsequent years. One more thing, if those of you who were preparing this law were not to speak of this law that we have enacted, but of this law that was passed before, to think as I have tried to describe it now, then we would have judged the matter differently. Finally, most importantly: it is incredible and very hypocritical and unacceptable that this coalition and this government have allowed themselves to impose a burden on the next government. You're running out of time, my dear friends, and you'd be solving things after you've been burdening around agriculture, for 2018, not for 2019, 2020, and so on, that only then will these farmers figure out the consequences of 2017 and will be responsible for that government that will be set up in 2018, 2019 and so on. That's unacceptable! This is distasteful and utterly rude and hypocritical! To these people, no one has properly explained it to agriculture. I think it is right that we have introduced this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and I will support it myself, and it is right for Slovenian farmers to know the real truth. The true truth that must be spoiled. We are here to tell the real truth to Slovenian farmers as well. From this point forward, it is known who will bear the consequences for acts and for this law, which was adopted only in the past period, when [[…]] Maybe that's it. I call on the rural population on the whole of Slovenia to make sure that what has been said today will lead to a decision in the elections, for whom they will vote. Let's make it a bit of a piranha. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will implement these solutions, which we have proposed here today, if we succeed in forming a government in the first six months. It is right that Slovenian farmers know this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Here you go. It's just Mr. Tanko. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. Okay, well, if the Secretary of State signed up, I should probably get a word and then I could get it again, but good, if that's how you run the unusual, not the order, then there'll be a part of it. The law on the table is an important law. Maybe what's in the hall, the presence, doesn't show it that way. I regret, however, that there is no will to discuss, not with the Minister, nor with Members, that the largest coalition party was hardly discussing it. There are almost no discussions I think that only one Member took a few minutes to talk about the problem or about the Slovenian farmer and the Slovenian countryside. [[…]] I think that, as colleagues have already said, the presence of a minister or one of his state secretaries would be necessary, I also mean from his party. This is a much more important area for Mr Jewish than when he took charge of the Government for the introduction of the tax registers and the bound accounts. That's when he uploaded this project; here, when it goes exclusively, it's called a debate about an area that he covers, which he's responsible for, and he's not even there. Not even his MPs. I think that unusually, or very much the same technique as in the Social Protection Act, when the Pahor government adopted a measure of mortgage registration and law enforcement and prescribed the entry into force in essence with the following government. Only after a few months of this have people given up on social assistance, social protection for taking mortgages, did it find that something was wrong with the problem and that it was problematic. Something similar is this amendment of the Cadastrian Income Act, which has been adopted and which we are now correcting. Because it is necessary to know that this €35 million novelty will burden additional agricultural economies in two years. Now let me just have the Secretary of State tell me if there is another group in this country that will be taxed by 100% in two years. Is there another professional group in this country that will burden itself by 2020 with an additional 100%? It doesn't exist! The group, a category that is in fact one of the main problems in this country, is one that is burdened and burdened, takes credit, takes away all the options it should have and imposes solely on it. In the last five, six years, you have abolished farmers' pensions or state pensions and replaced them with mortgages on social assistance, you are a farmer, and you will try to reintroduce additional burdens on property taxes. Farmers are the most fixed category to which most of this burden will be burdened or distributed, as has already been tried in one government before. Farmers have difficulties due to precisely these provisions in KD, which takes into account income in obtaining social transfers. This is said, in the case of children's allowances, in the case of income, because all of this is considered within them, but in principle it is a number of large farmers and a large number of small farmers with scattered agricultural property and this property does not generate any income. If calculated, as the craftsmen estimate, the rate of drop would probably not be 3 or 5 % of the annual number of agricultural holdings, but would radically reduce in a very short time. The economy on the farm can't bear this and because it can't bear it, as my colleague Lisec said, is shrinking rapidly; for the first time, the processing of the Slovenian countryside, which means that it is growing, for the second time, does not increase, nor does it increase, those cultures that we are growing, the self-sustainment is at a very low level, is said to be significantly lower than it would have to be, and so on and so on. Other restrictions are now emerging in these cases. I think that this small farm property, a small farm, does not even have an equal opportunity to run for the European funds earmarked for this area. I think that the limit of KD levels from which they can continue to run for tenders is clearly only good for some to be taken into account in different tax classes, tax systems, does not allow or leave them close to where additional resources need to be obtained. However we turn the agricultural policy around, I think that such approaches as they do are impossible to maintain the maintenance of a cultural landscape in the countryside, because there are absolutely no measures taken. Even those who were, let's say, comas have now somehow ceased and put themselves under some other measure, so that pure commotion is not possible. This prevents rural integration in one way or another or rounding up agricultural processing areas, which is a major problem. It is problematic not to stimulate a merger measure, a plot of land. I think that the country should do much more in this area. These problems are particularly present in the part of the southern border, where the conditions are already worse because of natural conditions, because they are forest areas, they are narrow valleys, because there is no industry, because people have already had to work elsewhere and have problems processing their agricultural land afterwards. Now, as a rule, all these smallholders of agricultural land are not pure farmers, engaged in or in the service and do so more or less volunteering, loving, out of respect for the legacy of their parents. The measures taken by the Government, which have been adopted by the Government so far, are all going in the direction of making this small agricultural property impossible. If we add additional weather conditions to this, weather captures of any form, then we can see that there are no ratings. With this intervention law, which we discussed and which you rejected yesterday, we proposed essentially unloading farmers in the part where their forest, for example, was damaged or destroyed by wind. It was not accepted. These forests have been destroyed in these farmers, mainly on the southern border or in Koroška, now in a short period of time twice, sometimes instead of the forest trees of the bare surface. And I don't know what the problem is for those who have been so damaged or have had problems with these weather conditions to write off their cadastral income for a certain period of time – let's say the forest restoration is about 50 years – to be established, and in such cases I think that the government has to act more proactively, but not in such a way as to defend all proposals that come from anywhere, no matter how good they are. Also with regard to raising cadastral income, I think that this measure is totally unjustifiable in view of the rural situation, given the trends in the Slovenian countryside, given what is happening with the takeover of farms, given that our surfaces are growing, that forest areas are expanding, that wildlife and beasts are spreading virtually to settlements and so on. This is where things don't work and they don't work. Now you are going to be able to afford intensive agriculture for these people, saying that this activity would be carried out professionally, like farmers, and that you would also start to raise cadastral income. Over the next two years, for €35 million, this amounts to 200% and 100% respectively in the index. Now I seriously ask the Secretary of State whether any other group in this country has been foreseen to receive a 100 % increase in their tax in the next two years. Is there another category? This country no longer has such a category. Farmers are the only ones to be directly hit by such an increase; by threatening additional burdens with real estate taxes, the question of what the Jew still prepares for the Forest Act, additional nonsense that they have problems or restrictions on assistance and so on. A number of these restrictions were accepted only to affect the Slovenian farmer. Just to hurt the Slovenian farmer! And then it was financed by what was taken from the Slovenian farmer. For example, state pensions were then financed by officers of the JLA. These were impossible measures, and I regret that this government continues with such a policy. I will support this bill. I think it is perfectly normal to maintain the level of cadastral income that is valid, which was set for last year or 2016. There is no need for this particular category, I would say, to make tax conditions significantly worse without changing any measure at another level. That's what you say, on the other side. In order to stimulate the rounding of farms, the concentration of farms should be stimulated in order to increase the takeover of farms in order to improve the conditions for candidateing European funds and so on. This package of policies is not, but it goes with these partial measures, step by step, but with each, in every direction, deterioration of status or the position of the farmer and of the Slovenian countryside. I understand that all these left-wing policies tend to lead towards urbanisation, concentration of the population, but, look, some people need to be left in the countryside too, so that the countryside remains as we know it and will bring something. I think it is easier to provide money for the processing of Slovenian land and to get something out of it, to give birth to us and to sell through Slovenian markets, than to pay 60 to 80% in individual categories, even where it is not necessary, to import and pay all of this landscape to Austrians, to pay for agricultural policy to Austrians and so on; to all those who provide us with food. There are some things that just need to be done. Given that Minister Židan has committed himself to establishing these supply chains in order to raise self-sustainment, you also have it in the coalition contract, you can only find that none of this is actually happening. None of this is happening. Big words at the beginning, when it's time to make inventory, it's said to look at what's changed positively in this time of year and there are no results. Before that, my colleague Lisec made a good point with those highlights from the report. Trends are negative and sound policy should set up and prepare measures to make trends look in a positive direction. It is said that the farm will not fail to reduce the cultural landscape or agricultural area at the expense of the forest, so that production and self-sustainment will rise and so on. That's the point. And you, by counter-measures, say that with additional restrictions, with additional taxes and so on, do exactly the opposite; you accelerate the decline of farms and also the collapse of agricultural land. This is just a policy we've been seeing for the past few years. No warning can help, nothing can happen, but even in spite of these warnings, it may happen exactly what is worse than what was before. What you adopted in the Cadastrian Income Act is worse than what it was before. This additional burden is not made on any economic basis, on any economic basis. The economy on farms is not working. If it were working, people wouldn't be moving away from farms where they're good, where they can work, probably there's no problem getting a job. [[…]] Where work is difficult, where work is full-time, there is a great dependence on weather conditions and so on, and there is not so easy. Even when these accidents occur, there are extremely few of these unforeseen risks. People are forced into insurance and so on. This is how we expect to make a reasonable proposal in this combination between agricultural policy and financial policies and that these issues begin to improve, not what is being done, in the direction of further degradation and accelerated degradation. This bill is just one step that should help to improve rural governance. Also, the previous law, the Income Act, was a step towards improving the conditions of this particular population, which has major problems. Since small agriculture, in fact, it is difficult for anyone to survive economically, not because some conditions apply, but also for things to be done where there are changes in ownership, where there are abandonments to make concentrations, there are no such measures. It is so easy to see this decline and only to see how as much tax money as possible will be involved and how people will pay for these things from their wages to be the proud owners of the agricultural land. I will support this law as well as our parliamentary group, and this is certainly not the last initiative, the last proposal in this area. However, we expect that in the government and even in the country, and especially in the National Assembly, some judgment will finally prevail once and for all, and that you will begin to deal with real problems in the right way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a general part of the debate, the representative of the Government, Mr Tillen Bozič, has the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. I would respond to a few things, especially those concerning my area of work. It has been said, for example, in the field of tax policy, that in some ways there is no obedience and immediately thereafter. Nevertheless, I would like to make some points, some of which concern some of the solutions that may have been before, some of which have been introduced by this government or coalition, and I will just count them. When we talk about certain exceptions, let's say what's not going on in income, then we have environmental subsidies, compensation and so on, taxes are free. When we talk, say, about excise duties, not consumption, let's say, it returns some of these excise or excise duties to motor fuels, let's say it works in the forest and so on. When we talk about VAT, a special solution, which provides for flat-rate compensation for farmers, which is also more administratively simple, is somehow more favourable, so that they become more easily entangled in this chain, is said from that production of their own to come to the end of the shelves. Then, as far as tax receipts are concerned, if farmers have their own production, there is no need for a tax box, unless they have an additional activity on the farm, and again there is a difference. Again, there is a special approach, which is why this special status and some, we can call it, the benefits that can go easier through the day. If we look at some other things that actually go into this cadastral income – those changes that were last determined: intensive cultures, vegetables and so on, we had to be dealt with differently, and then we did that or because I was a Member at the time, I was included in the cadastral income, flat tax, and in this way we also contributed to more, we could say, competitive or even easier to survive with. From here on out – I don't know, like destroyed forests. If you're afforesting, it's 30 years off the cadastral income and so on. Today, however, several times has been said, I think that Mr Pojbič, who said that cadastral income is tax. Catastrophe income is income that is the basis for then making a calculation and reaching some tax liability. This is true, but it is not a tax because these numbers that are identified there, which are charged through the cadastral income, would be very confusing if they were linked directly to the tax. You said here Mr Tanko said that there was no group that would raise its tax in such a short time by 100 percent. The fact is that there is no group that would pay only 11% of its income. So, if we go to watch effectively what happens in the end. Of these 11 %, the average effective tax rate for this population is 100 %, says around 1 % of the total tax revenue that can be calculated is paid. So this substance is recognized, it is said that farmers should be helped and so on. For example, imagine yourself, you've been a very long-standing Member, I think 17 years ago, calculated that what I do know is within 17 years -- just for quick, I apologize -- that's about a million euros at this time of income. Imagine paying 1% of this income, says 10,000 euros. You've certainly paid over 200,000 euros at this time. In this case, a farmer would pay about 10,000 euros out of this. So these are the relationships that we're looking at, and through this somehow we also recognize this benefit, this importance, the importance of self-sustainment and so on. At this point, however, it was recognised that, over the years, from those 30% of the income that represented the tax, which was somehow in the tax calculation, this started to decline dramatically. Now we have finally been somewhere to 11%, and gradually this will now rise slightly, but more than twice certainly not, and it will still be comparable to all the other activities we have. Since you have a lot of activities in Slovenia, you also have craftsmen and so on, it is a very pleasant treatment for me. If we put a little bit of this number on the line, there might be another way. As in the preceding point, you also had one initiative to bring the 200 euro threshold of the cadastral, according to the income, to EUR 500. For 200 euros of cadastral income, you have, if I convert it to cadastral income as a property or some of the funds you operate with, this is roughly after 2020, about 7 hectares of forest. That's about right. If we give the field that you have some field, some forest, and you have, say, a very small farm; this, two hectares of land and two hectares of forest, or one hectare of land and four hectares of forest, these are kind of the ratios and that's not going to the income. When you get over it, let's say you get the cadastral income of 2020 to be 1,000 euros. Then you pay the tax, say, 100 euros, but let's say that the cadastral income is thousands of euros, it's equivalent to over 30 hectares of forest. This is equivalent, let's say, I don't know, in a ratio I could say 10 hectares of forest and 10 hectares of land, which is also an interesting farm for Slovenian conditions to do with. And if we say that then taxation is somewhere – if it's your only income, well, it's not taxation, but let's say if you have some average reasonable income in Slovenia, then it's rank, I don't know, between 10 and a maximum of 20 euros a month. Still for such a farm, which has ten hectares of land and ten hectares of forest, there are not so many — at least not in relation to what such a farmer can also do through the incentives provided by the State, so that it somehow allows or makes easier this hard bread, which he cuts every day through his work — then represents this relatively small amount. Then there's a little bit more to it from here on out. Mrs Dimic said that the growth coefficient, that it hadn't changed in years, had been mentioned for 50 years. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, that's right. The point is that the growth coefficient, for example, if you look at the forest, changes over a very long period of time. You can probably take a look, make another one, say, revise it, but over time, it changes very little. Then, if we go to see some other stuff, yeah, last thing, that's all I'm going to say. [[...]] Ambassador Horvat mentioned this information that the farmer doesn't know what's coming next year. The law stipulates that it is necessary to make a cadastral income for a particular land, and this is precisely on the plot, is essentially attributed to 20. 9 years before the year on which this cadastral income will apply, it is precisely because a farmer can think at that time — in a way, we can say by the end of the year or by the time it comes to those things that have a significant impact on it — what he will sow and end up wishing to be able to decide. Thus, some time distance is ensured; it is said that he knows what awaits him, that it is an environment or those conditions, even if we look at how it affects his income and how this income affects the tax, that it is somehow predictable. Given that this is my conclusion, I would just say that in the beginning I've given the reasons, the government's position is true, why it disagrees. These are more, but the key reason for sure is that such a solution, as envisaged in the ZUKD-2, which was adopted – we say – is appropriate in 2006 – is good, is good, has been made in a broad sense in the sense that it was also the working group, we said, the Ministry of Finance, together with the Minister and the normal Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, then the expert, for example, the academic sphere, also the professional public, if we say so and also the interest associations helped to do so – I am not saying that every peak, the branch came together, but what I know was then constructive proposals and comments from any of those who have been very actively involved in the working group, which have also been reflected in the law currently in force. Because of this, as has already been said, the Government does not support this proposal that you put on the table today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Is this a replica or an application for discussion? It's a replica. Here you go, replica, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, Mr Christmas, you have served with this data what cadastral income is, say, 200 euros in surfaces. In the surfaces approximately, if we recalculate it. But now I do not know whether you listened or not, 7 hectares is not the average Slovenian farm. It's smaller. The Slovenian average farm has about 5 hectares. How much? [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Okay. By having this property broken down into about 20 units, 20 plots at different locations, different positions and so on. I wanted to say that because of this, we have on this fragmented farm where someone lives, just some old farmer dealing with it. However, the problem is that it is difficult for you to get a young takeover to continue to manage this farm. My point is that both income or income assessments and policies in this area must be harmonised. For one way or another, this estimated income is passed on to these people, who are, say, workers, farmers or whatever, because other conditions in such farms, say in Kočevska or in Ribnica, are not then transferred to all the other things calculated from this. Indirectly, all of this has been taken into account. The problem is that there is no policy aimed at preserving farms or agricultural areas. There are no suitable, there are no real and we are only dealing here with how much income we will assess or how much of this income we will then cover in the following categories of taxes and we will account for it, or whether we will take account of it in reducing transfer policies for such categories. That's the problem. We therefore propose that, until these things are respected and regulated, cadastral incomes or cadastral income levels remain the same as they are. Because there are no conditions for other matters. We have some large farmers who are dealing with this commercially, it holds, but most of the countryside is in this category. In Slovenian Gorica, in Ribniška, I don't know, the Lubian Oblast and so on. In the end, they are only taxpayers and have difficulties in using social transfers. That's all it is. We therefore propose that this law be adopted and that things remain at this level as they have been accounted for so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Did all the debaters you wanted get the word Procedural? [[…]] Mr. Underpants. Bojan Podróšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u122	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. My procedural reference is to the following when I listened to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, I certainly have no doubt that he is not a financial expert, otherwise I would not be in this place as he is. [[…]] However, it seems to me – this applies to both of you, Mr Vice-President – that when we talk about such an important point in the future, I think it is appropriate, because there are many seats, that if there is no minister here, the Secretary of State or Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture should be here. Look, Mr. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. When we listened to you carefully, it's probably a lot easier to talk from these benches than it is from our little farmer. Do you know how long it takes him for the state to force him to shut down his farm? Very big! I think it's mostly from a European farmer. I do not understand what is wrong with us in agriculture to sell the best wood from the Slovenian forest to foreigners, but we import the bad. Selling the best food that's for us, our neighbors, but importing bad. Of course, throughout our term of office we find that we have extremely poor self-care in kindergartens, in schools. Only 20% of our healthy Slovenian food is eaten by our children. Only 20, instead of talking about 80. Again today, I'm going to be a hundred times in this term. In the last three years, we have closed down 2,000 400 farms. I call on you, Secretary of State, and everyone in the National Assembly, not to burden these small farms in the future, because this average farm, which is 6.9, and 28 thousand we have farms that are up to a maximum of three hectares, it will not be once a large farm. It can only be a dream. We're not Duke. One more call to all [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] that we do not burden small farms and Slovenian agriculture.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u123	Thank you very much. It was just a matter of procedure that you addressed to me. This is the part to which I answer that the Government has appointed its representative, and here, as President, I cannot do anything but take note of it. She sent Mr. Tiln Christmas, Secretary of State. So, all the reported discussers you wanted, you got the word. We still have time left, so is there a desire to discuss it? [[…]] If not, thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide in half an hour in the framework of the vote. I hereby end the 11th agenda item and the 37th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 6.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u124	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Income Law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Income Act is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u125	Dear President! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the Income Change Act, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we stand for higher wages, we stand for higher wages without burden on the economy, but rather with lower tax burdens. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that economic growth must be known in the pockets of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The amendment of the Income Act provides for a 2 percentage point change in income classes and an increase in income benefits. The proposed change means for someone who earns an average annual salary to know about €400 in his wallet. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that, given the economic situation and the situation of public finances, the proposed amendment should not undermine the stability of public finances. We are confident that there will be reserves to make up for this shortfall, some 200 million euros, from the budget in relation to the reduction of these constraints. We are confident that the proposed amendment would increase the standard of living of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, relieve the economy and increase the consumption and competitiveness of the Slovenian economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u126	Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 40. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude the 10th item of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Cadastrian Income Law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Cadastrian Income Law is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Bojan Podkrodšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u127	Thank you, distinguished President of the National Assembly, for your word. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the draft law that we have proposed. The fact is that we are aware that in the last three and a half years we have lost more than 2 000 400 small farms in Slovenia. The fact is that in the forests, mainly from the state forest, our neighbours take the best Slovenian wood abroad. The fact is that the best quality food in Slovenia is taken away by our neighbours and we eat less quality food in Slovenia. This is due to the fact that we have put too little emphasis on agriculture and, above all, small farms over the last three years.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u128	A little peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u129	Slovenian schools, kindergartens ate barely 20% of Slovenian food. All the rest of the food is eaten, but it comes from other countries. This proposal for a law that has been unharmonised to impose an additional burden on all these farms after 2020 is unacceptable to us. I therefore call on everyone on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group to support this proposal for the benefit of the Slovenian farmer, Slovenian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u130	We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 38. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude the 11th item of the agenda. I conclude the 37th meeting of the National Assembly.
