ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 38th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Iva Dimic by 12 noon, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer from 10 a.m. to 14 p.m., Vesna Vervega, Nada Brinovšek, Jelka Godec, mag. Marko Pogačnik, Tink Lah, Peter Wilphan, Tomaž Lisec, mag. Matthew Tonin from 3 p.m., Ivan Škodnik, Igor Zorčič, Tomaž Gantar from 3 p.m., Franc Lai, and from 5 p.m. on, I will be away by myself. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 8. On the day-to-day basis, this is another defence proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on social entrepreneurship following a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology Eva Štravs Podlogar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, good morning! Thank you so much for saying that. At the end of the Social Summit of the Member States of the European Union last November, Slovenia was given a one-year mandate to chair a group of 14 European countries active in the development of the social economy for 2018. The unanimous support for the Slovenian Presidency is the result of the country's efforts to strengthen and further develop the area of social economy and social entrepreneurship as its important work. The amendment of legislation in this area is one of the steps we want to address those legal shortcomings that in practice discourage business entities from registering and maintaining their status. In particular, we are talking about restrictions on the implementation of activities and restrictions which separate social enterprises into type A and B, with practice showing that many already registered social enterprises are of a mixed type, as they simultaneously carry out both legally defined activities and employ the most vulnerable groups in the labour market. In view of the removal of these two restrictions, administrative barriers to the annual reporting of the number and structure of employees and the revenue generated from the exercise of the activity are consequently eliminated. The amendment draws us closer to European practices that address the broader context of the social economy, which is also part of social entrepreneurship, by clearly defining individual concepts and consequently extending the social entrepreneurship world to the social economy world and the social entrepreneurship strategy to the social economy development strategy. This is a horizontal link between the various work areas covered by different ministries. By bringing the wider context of the social economy closer together, the amendment opens up the possibility that the status, if they want, can also be applied for by important stakeholders of the social economy who have not had these options so far. These are disability companies and employment centres, which also receive their representatives in the world for the development of the social economy. We are re-imposing a complete limitation on the payment of profits, which is why we want to stress the principle of non-profit and social impact. This does not, of course, mean that social enterprises are not market-oriented. On the contrary, social enterprises are essentially companies that operate on market principles and generate income on the market. The social effects mentioned in the proposal for a novel come into a more visible focus, as they are the ones that separate social enterprises from other economic operators. By the Social Impact Measurement Regulation, we want to ensure that social enterprises define and report more precisely annually on the three social impacts they provide by carrying out their activities. By doing so, we want to increase their understanding and visibility. The Law was created on the basis of proposals made over the last two years by representatives of social enterprises, the public concerned, the ministries and various field experts. We are convinced that the content of the novel is in line with the expectations and needs of social entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. At the same time, it is in line with the key European guidelines in this area. With the support of the amendment of the law, honourable Members and Members, you will be able to reduce the administrative and other obstacles faced by social enterprises today, improve their chances of survival in order to further strengthen them in their socially beneficial activities, and encourage more coherent and effective participation of different ministries in the implementation of social enterprise measures. If the amendments adopted are less than a dozen articles, we propose that the third consideration of the law be carried out at the same meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u3	The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Mark Ferluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State and the team and everyone else! The Committee on the Economy shall meet at its 32nd session. 1. 2018 addressed the above-mentioned proposal for a law. The Committee was provided with the following material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Services, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, the definition of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Institute of Disabled Enterprises of Slovenia. In the course of the course of business, amendments to the draft law were tabled by the SMC and Desus Group of Members. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that a number of comments were taken into account by the amendments of the SMC and Desus groups. It noted, however, that, in the light of the principle of legality referred to in Article 120(2) of the Constitution, the disputed regime referred to in Article 7, paragraph 7, and Article 23, paragraph 4, provides for the decision of the authorities granting public funds and procedures, resources of public funds and criteria for the selection of beneficiaries to be encouraged in the Government's programme act instead of in law. The representative of the Council of State presented the reasons why the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance of the proposed law does not support it. The meeting was also attended by the Director and representative of the Institute of Disabled Enterprises of Slovenia, who expressed dissatisfaction with the proposed solutions. The meeting was also attended by a representative of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, who expressed disagreement with the expansion of social entrepreneurship in the field of economic activities. In the debate, some members and members of the Committee expressed opposition to the proposal for a law, in terms of extending social entrepreneurship to all areas of economic activity. They considered that social entrepreneurship and market orientation were not compatible. The view was also expressed that the draft law was insufficiently imaginative and that the solutions were not coordinated with all social stakeholders. On the other hand, some discussers felt that the solutions proposed were good because they provided a basis for the employment of some vulnerable and hard to employ groups. Support was expressed for solutions that would enable social enterprises to operate while achieving certain social impacts. The Committee has considered and adopted amendments from SMC and Desus Group Members. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill and also adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats for her, Mr Jernej Vrtovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u6	Colleagues and colleagues, one nice day! The amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Entrepreneurship removes two requirements: that a social enterprise must employ at least one person within one year of registration and that a social enterprise must employ at least two persons within two years of registration. The cancellation of these obligations in Novi Slovenije is not opposed. Disability companies and employment centres have so far been unable to register as social enterprises and the novelty of this law allows them to gain the status of a social enterprise. With regard to this novelty, we note the potential for the problems and uncertainties that the duplication of the status of the disabled and the social enterprise can bring. The new law also eliminates the division of social enterprises into type A and type B. Social enterprises of type A have acquired social enterprise status from the implementation of a business activity which is defined in the regulations as an activity that provides positive social effects and social enterprises of type B have acquired social enterprise status from the employment of a particular proportion of those who are more difficult to employ. After the removal of the division into two types of social enterprises, the social enterprise will be required to provide positive social effects for business activities or for employment of more difficult people. The Law also introduces a change in the definition of activities where social entrepreneurship can be carried out. So far, the law has listed activities in which social entrepreneurship can be carried out. As an example, I should mention only social protection, family protection, protection of persons with disabilities. The proposal provides that social entrepreneurship can be carried out in all areas of economic and non-economic society. With regard to the expansion of the field of social entrepreneurship in Novi Slovenija, we also draw attention to its basic mission. This is mainly in promoting and assisting the most vulnerable members of society. We believe that social entrepreneurship should be limited and focused on its most important mission in the context of activities that have an extremely socially useful and social character. The large-scale social entrepreneurship sector has increased opportunities for some companies to draw public funds and, on the other hand, these opportunities for social enterprises with the most difficult employees are being reduced. Wider than the definition, less remains for those who really need help. Colleagues and colleagues! For these reasons in the New Slovenia Group, we will not support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u7	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u8	Dear Mr President, the distinguished Secretary of State with a team, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! We have before us a proposal for a law which, in view of the commitments made under the coalition treaty, is one of the priorities of this government. The area of social entrepreneurship and the social economy, together with incentives for the development of economic democracy, should also provide an opportunity for the Slovenian economy to become more crisis-resistant and, above all, to include a greater proportion of vulnerable groups in the labour market. This direction has always been stressed by the Social Democrats. Finally, the law in force was prepared and adopted within the mandate of the Social Democratic Government. Mr Andreja Črnak Meglič, as the first-signed candidate of the Social Entrepreneurship Act, devoted a great deal of her knowledge and effort to regulating this area. Social entrepreneurship means a particular type of economy and economy. These are organisations that attempt to tackle social problems through an entrepreneurial market approach, with a positive social impact first, and the imperative of profits and low costs second and subordinate to social effects. Social entrepreneurship is an expression that we are trying to define such efforts and organisations. A clear definition is particularly important so that social enterprises can be separated from others and set up a system of assistance that is appropriate for them. What we believe should be regulated by this law is a stable source of financing for the social economy, unfortunately we do not follow the proposal. What is lacking in the existing regulation is the funding for stable and long-term financing, which has so far been lacking. The new law, unfortunately, does not bring new and stable financial resources to encourage social enterprises. We have also been able to conclude in the debate on the committee responsible that the proposal is opposed by those who are supposed to benefit from the proposal. These are disability companies. It is a difficult task to properly evaluate and measure all the many effects of social entrepreneurship. This part really isn't in optimal order right now. The current law has defined social enterprises according to their social impact. Under the so-called type B, he listed those social enterprises whose impact is direct to the operations of vulnerable groups. Under Type A, he listed all other social enterprises whose positive effect we measure differently. The law thus provided a basic framework for the recognition and evaluation of social enterprises and highlighted forms of assistance for them. Although the system of measuring the effects of type A social enterprises has not been completed, at least type B recognises their importance through employment of those who find employment more difficult. But it is this way of identifying their impact that the bill now replaces with an inconsistent system to be regulated by a government regulation in the future. Your Honor! In the Group of Social Democrats, we have always been inclined to discuss how to improve the conditions for the development of the social economy. We agree that the current system of measuring their effects is not sufficiently broken down, that the number of social enterprises is too low and that there is not enough revenue from market activities. However, the solution to these issues is not in putting such companies on the market. The solution is to recognise that social enterprises are not in many ways like other companies, so they need special incentives and often an appropriate measure of thoughtfulness and patience. We believe that it is right to draw attention to some of the specific characteristics of social entrepreneurship and related challenges for which the legislative proposal does not offer optimal solutions. We therefore expect further clarifications or assurances of the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u9	The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'm having a good time together! In Levica, we will not support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Entrepreneurship. Not because we would not recognize the potential of social entrepreneurship, but because the proposed novelty does not bring the necessary changes that social entrepreneurship needs. Instead, it wants to introduce even more entrepreneurial logic into the field and to completely subjugate it to the free market forces. Social entrepreneurship is a word for it, because the adjective “social” is inseparable from the “business” adjective. It is not about or should not just be about a little different entrepreneurship, but social entrepreneurship should become a new model of management. Economics based on increasing social benefits, in the first place employment and not on increasing profits. In Levika, we recognize the potential of social entrepreneurship, but this potential is not being met. In some cases social entrepreneurship is, unfortunately, also an opportunity for various politically unrelated or related clicks that want to be rich with the help of the state. But we can also be critical of social entrepreneurship. Why? Since it is a grave matter for the outsourca State to export the resolution of the social issues caused by the wild, in Slovenian form paide capitalism to external operators. These must then be found on the market in one way or another. As a result of this general framework, the role of the State is all the more important. It is crucial that the Community economy is encouraged by the State. Instead of giving social emphasis to entrepreneurship and market operations, the bill before us today does. At the same time, the novel eliminates the separation of type A and type B companies, which can reduce the chances of state support and consequently survival for those who employ particularly vulnerable parts of the population. The proposal is obviously also not in line with key stakeholders. He's opposed by the Department of Disability Enterprises. While it also brings some useful minor corrections, it certainly does not bring what the coalition has promised. If you remember, the government of Mira Cerar promised to be a project government. In coalition contract number 9 she wrote among the key projects, quote: “Promoting the development of social entrepreneurship, society and economic democracy.” The project includes: a new strategy, interdepartmental cooperation, involvement in local environments and the like, in short, a great start to forms of management that put social benefits first. And what did Project 9 get us? Today's novelty and employment of former Member of the Cabinet of Prime Minister Cerar. Under the line, practically nothing. In the field of social entrepreneurship, society and economic democracy, the SMC, Desus and SD coalition in primary school in the first triad, I hope to add, would receive an underestimation 1. And once again, we have heard from the Secretary of State this time some classical excuses from this coalition and government: European guidelines, administrative obstacles, the most such, I cannot say otherwise than pumpkins, it would be that if we accepted this, we would encourage cooperation between ministries. What about Zeus and the three hundred hairy rosemoths — what is the National Assembly? A mediation centre that will encourage cooperation between ministries? And that is a description of the works and tasks that the Ministry should essentially do. And if there is a SMC boss here, such as most customers just a new face, and a new policy, at least the SD has a rich tradition in what the lady who read their position somehow told me. And there is also the responsibility of the old policy that this has not moved anywhere. Not to mention Desus, because, after all, in an ageing society, this is a model that will have to solve a whole series of things, a set of needs to prolong the autonomy of the ageing population and the quality of their lives. My expert should be given an assessment of the two who have prepared the basis for this because there is another overestimation of what you have done in this field in this coalition. We can't support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with the team. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the coalition agreement, the economy has committed itself to strengthening social entrepreneurship by creating an appropriate environment for its development in accordance with European rules and the good practice of other countries. In order to achieve this commitment, Government Strategic Project No 9 has been defined to promote the development of social entrepreneurship, society and economic democracy, the strategic objective of which is to achieve a comparable level of development with the EU in 2027,28 which means 6.5 per cent of employees and 7 per cent of GDP participation. Its operational objective is to regulate legislation in the field of social economy. In order to identify proposals for the amendment of the Social Entrepreneurship Act, government project teams were set up as part of the implementation of the government strategic project, including representatives of the social economy sector, who also identified proposals for necessary amendments to the Social Entrepreneurship Act. In addition, the amendments are aligned with the regulatory arrangements of comparable European countries and with the guidelines drawn up by the European Commission in the area of promoting the development of social entrepreneurship. The key objectives of the amendment of the Social Entrepreneurship Act are: to strengthen the functioning of social enterprises according to market orientation; to increase the number of registered social enterprises; to increase the number of jobs provided by social enterprises; to increase the positive social impact provided by social enterprises through the implementation of business activities; to increase GDP; to remove administrative barriers to registration procedures; and to enable the status of the social enterprise to be acquired also for disabled enterprises and employment centres. A key novelty is the removal of the division of social enterprises into type A and type B. The division has in practice brought more negative than positive consequences, from additional reporting requirements to the prevailing general opinion that social enterprises are mainly employers of vulnerable target groups, i.e. social enterprises of type B, and as such need state assistance. We want to encourage the functioning of social enterprises in the direction of ensuring the sustainability of business, in particular by acting on the principle of market orientation. This is business under market law through the production and sale of products or through the provision of services on the market, while social enterprises can still employ the most vulnerable groups on the labour market. The amendment removes the possibility of payment of profits and salary restrictions and introduces a new government regulation setting out in more detail the standards, criteria and indicators for measuring social impacts. Its purpose, however, is to demonstrate the usefulness and importance of social enterprises and to show the distinction between social enterprises and “classical” companies. We will not support the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 5 because by expanding the social entrepreneurship of all economic activities, we want to bring the generally applicable European definition of social entrepreneurship closer to the social entrepreneurship definition, which defines social entrepreneurship without limitation, regardless of the activity of the social entrepreneurship. This is also the practice in some European countries, such as the United Kingdom, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands. Given that social enterprises, in addition to generating income on the market under competitive conditions with the principle of market orientation, must also further ensure broader social impacts in line with the principle of social performance and take into account all other principles of social entrepreneurship, in particular, I underline a 100 % restriction on the payment of profits, the involvement of stakeholders in decision-making, the joint decision-making, regardless of the capital invested, are still in a much more difficult situation than other classical profitable economic operators which do not have those limitations. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will support the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group to Article 7, which follows the opinion of the Institute of Disabled Enterprises, that disabled companies and employment centres represent different forms of training and employment of disabled persons under special conditions, and therefore one representative of disabled enterprises and one representative of the employment centres should be appointed to the Social Economy Council on a proposal from the competent professional institutions. We will also support the amendment of the Social Entrepreneurship Act as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u13	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, everyone! Amendments to the Social Entrepreneurship Act, which is before us today, should address, according to the applicant's words, the legal shortcomings which in practice discourage the registration of the status of the social enterprise and which make it difficult for social enterprises to maintain their status or prevent them from maintaining their status. The proposed amendment also seeks to strengthen the functioning of social enterprises in line with the principle of market orientation. However, on the Economics Committee, it was noted that the law was not in line with those most affected by the law, which is not a good way to adopt amendments to the law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are in no way in agreement with the new definition of social entrepreneurship, which the proposer extends to the field of all economic and non-economic activities. We believe that it is only right that social entrepreneurship activities are carried out in activities such as those in force so far, i.e. in the area of social protection, family protection, health protection, the protection of persons with disabilities and social inclusion. The operation of social enterprises in all economic areas is inappropriate and unrealistic. The aim of social enterprises cannot be profit-making, as the productivity of people employed in social enterprises cannot be comparable to that of other employees. However, there is also greater confusion about the possibility of transforming a disabled company into a social enterprise. More than apparently such a transformation will not make sense for the future. The condition for setting up a disability company is 40% of the disabled. Disability companies receive a large proportion of state aid by law, both by covering up to 75 % of the costs of salaries as well as for professional workers, by purchasing adapted equipment and so on. In addition, the disabled undertaking must not obtain any other benefits as they are already recipients of state aid. As a result of this fact, disabled companies will not be able to run for social enterprise tenders, as it would actually be a duplication of state aid. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not want individuals or individual groups to take advantage of the most vulnerable citizens. In the future, we can expect quite a few calls for European funds, with incentives and incentives for social entrepreneurship. Social entrepreneurship will be available to anyone, will make use of financial resources, will employ vulnerable people. Most certainly for a short period of time. Then what? If European funds are no longer available, this will pose an even greater problem for the most vulnerable group of people. Another concern is that money will be used for various expertise, mentoring, various administrations, and these individuals are probably already standing somewhere in the circle of the circular economy around Cerarje. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have prepared an amendment concerning changes in the conduct of social entrepreneurship activities, which should remain as they are today, and not extend to all economic activities. The objective of social entrepreneurship legal persons is not to make profits, but they are mainly set up for the purpose of carrying out permanent social entrepreneurship or other activities with a view to hiring the most vulnerable groups in the labour market. The profit generated in such a company is not shared among employees, but is intended for social entrepreneurship or other non-profit purposes. If our amendment does not receive support, we will not support the proposal for a law on changes in social entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u15	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! I will present the position of the Ambassador of Desus. The Social Entrepreneurship Act, or only social entrepreneurship, is an area which, unfortunately, has not been fully brought to life or has not come to life as we would have expected. The fact that this is a matter of perspective and importance speaks of the fact that the current government has undertaken to regulate this area as a matter of priority and within the framework of a strategic project, as set out in the so-called coalition agreement. The legal basis for the implementation of social entrepreneurship activities has been known since 2011 and is enshrined in the Social Entrepreneurship Act. The main objective of the whole idea of the development of the social economy is to create, highlight, social benefits and not profit, which we consider in the Desus Group as a solution that our economy urgently and urgently needs. Whether the proposed regulation is appropriate, better said, whether certain new definitions of the proposal of this law are sufficiently clear and the proposed conditions are simpler and fairer, and whether in the Desus Group we are not entirely uniform or sharing the same opinion. Whether it is an added value or merely a cosmetic adjustment, it will prove to be only then and after a certain period of time when and if the law is actually adopted and brought to life. In 2016 1.9m euros were earmarked for the start-up of social enterprises and youth cooperatives. For some large amounts of money, and for this area, we believe it is significantly too small. However, since the creation of new social enterprises also means creating new jobs, much more efforts must be made to get as close to the European average as possible. Europe employs about 6% of people in this area of social entrepreneurship, and in Slovenia we are turning plus, minus 1% of all jobs. The room for progress is far more than the current situation shows. The most up-to-date jobs show up in the production and processing of local food and energy self-sustainment. Social entrepreneurship is thus directly related to or linked to the local environment, which is extremely positive. In our parliamentary group, we are more focused on the pressing current issue where there is an increasing need and they are constantly growing. It is about providing services for older citizens or social protection activities. And this is where we see a great niche, or opportunity to revive or start a full social entrepreneurship. The concept of cooperatives is more up-to-date in cases of solving or reviving the healthy cores of companies that are in liquidity difficulties. The initiative is largely taken by the workers themselves, not only for the selfish reason that they retain their jobs and regain their input, but because they believe in the basic concept and business idea of the company itself. In Slovenia, successful stories have always been linked to the activity of agriculture. However, adjustments are also needed to new models such as housing or service cooperatives. This segment also needs to be upgraded within the broader concept of social economic development or social entrepreneurship if you want, which, in our view, has remained to a good extent incomplete. According to the assessment of the Desus Group, the creation and development of quality, quality jobs remains a key challenge in the area of social entrepreneurship, the social economy. The proposed novelty is aimed at removing all obstacles and shortcomings identified so far, which will lead to greater employability of particularly vulnerable groups in the labour market and increase, which is essential, social solidarity and cohesion. We ask ourselves, and at the same time we expect, if you want, to ask for further clarifications and to ensure that this novel law will not remain a dead letter on paper or merely a theoretical contribution, but will also be part of any concrete challenges and situations when they are present on the market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u17	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the debate on Article 5 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, chairman. Of course, we won't support it. Article 5 of the SDS explains: “The aim of legal persons in the field of social entrepreneurship is not to earn profits, but to co-establish mainly with a view to the permanent pursuit of social entrepreneurship or other activities with a view to hiring the most vulnerable groups in the labour market.” And so on. This is a fundamental ideological difference between the Left and the other side of the SDS. Look, if we remember Cerara's government's promise at the beginning, the promise was an economic democracy. Since I have relatively little time, I will read about the economic democracy under Cerar. The government has tightened the conditions for employees to participate in the management of banks and insurance companies. The Law on the Participation of Workers in Management, which we have tabled in Levica, has rejected. It's a new law. Although he had the support of union centres, the Association of Councils of Workers of Slovenia. The SD has drafted a bill on labour buy-backs and has been running at MGRT for over a year now we are just ahead of the elections. Nothing. Cerar even stopped working ransoms if you remember the Adrie Airways technique. The workers collected and the money and the guarantee, but SDH rather sold some, let's be polite, and I'll tell the suspicious Polish company. It's kind of like that in practice. When a man listens to this, he thinks that Desus and SD are in the opposition, you need more information on this. You know that drawing by Hugo: "Hello, is anyone home?" The right hand is obviously not interested in anything. Comrade Prikl correctly said where these percentages are with us, where these percentages are in the EU. In its position, the SD states, citing: “...with an entrepreneurial market approach to solve social problems.” We should take social problems elsewhere and address the reasons for them. When I tried to discuss this at my mother's body meeting, Han stopped by and said he didn't even know what I was saying anymore. Of course, I am relatively hospitable, but based on some of the knowledge the Social Democrats have before they turn on Lukšič's third path, we could say quite a bit about it. The chairman of the session has a bit of an eye-wrapped face, but, yes, there is a flower for this government in this area, because apparently the government and coalition of Mira Cerar is the government and the Superhik coalition – take to the poor, give to the rich. Which has proven to be over and over again in three and a half years. And then what little thing Hainz and I have been yelling at, who's gonna talk after me, we're gonna have coffee together sometime. Of course, it was a joke that Desus could at least understand. My experts from 1 to 10 deserve 11. In most clients, the expert or expert covering the subject prepares the draft and then we drink it. If we go to your brother's position or left's position, you can see that a little less girls do it with you and the whole team does it with us. But the experts in Desus are very good, and you're the only one who doesn't take them into account. That's true. After three and a half years, I can say that if we have to ping-pong like this. You know, the content of a high-quality Member or Member is not without a strong team both in the parliamentary group and without a strong team of many people in this house who have too low wages. I may be an unlisted Member and in these three and a half years a man who has worked in this house for 20, 30 years, you in three, four sentences give some information. It seems to me that these people with me would have written a much better law with experts from both the Left and Desus, as well as with which Fulbright SD wrote a much better law than what the government is now proposing, or apparently only the SMC. I am not surprised, however, because Mr Rest is a gentleman of deregulation. He would deregulation everything so that poor workers would live even worse to translate it into people's understandable language. If we don't need anything in the next term, not that we don't need anything, we need to send people like that to a political history dump. As I said before, we will not support this kind of amendment by the SDS. Housing organisations – because one housing organisation has given you this – I will not now name them, both business and business, and so on, I will not name them which they were – but they must ask what their purpose is. Their aim is to support members and to relieve them of anything that is not their key core activity. So much for once, I'll check in if there's any replicas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u19	Mr Primož Hainz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I must say, the government's proposal comes from a ministry for which we have not been used to such social thinking. And that's my starting point if they've already gone into some kind of alternative to supporting it. I've been much more excited about the marriage since day one. For four years we have explained that it should be supported, and we have by no means broken through. A whole bunch of opportunities for cooperatives when people wanted to buy or share in ownership, somehow the country didn't listen to them. The banks simply did not put the money under the influence of politics to make these things come to life, and there were a number of initiatives, and I will not now mention this, because we talked about this a lot years ago. I know some dilemmas in this marriage. In particular, the issue of the relationship between disability organisations and social entrepreneurship that this line is not fully clear or that some of the problems are. But then there's the amendment we proposed. The fact is, as a member of Desus, who always supports the lower social strata, I will not again, of course, are pensioners, nurses or the J-category of all professions who know that they cannot survive on their own salary. These receive our continued support. And if social entrepreneurship is going to do at least a little bit at this point, then I think that this bill should also be supported. As for this discussion with Dr. Duck, we're really going to end up having coffee, but I agree with how well he fixed it with this expert review. I think the experts in this house at yours and our Group of Members are really good quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u21	Is there still interest in the debate? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will also support the amendment we tabled. Why does this seem important to us? Because we simply cannot agree that there is a change in the field of social entrepreneurship, so that this can only be done in all areas of economic and non-economic activity. As has already been said, in our position we propose that social entrepreneurship remains in areas such as social protection, family protection, the protection of persons with disabilities, health protection and promotion, social inclusion, promotion of employment and vocational training for people who are unemployed or at risk of unemployment. As has already been said, a similar initiative has also come to Slovenia's Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and at this point we must agree with them. In fact, social entrepreneurship should remain in these areas concerning social entrepreneurship itself. Of course, we support the reduction of various administrative obstacles that are also in the wake of this amendment, but this article seems so controversial to us that if our amendment is not supported, we will not support this law either. However, we cannot compare social entrepreneurship with all other activities. It seems appropriate that, as has been done so far, it remains in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u23	Is there still interest in the debate? So I'm asking you to sign up. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Look, we have a problem here, because what was visible on the parent's working body is very different. This debate is then a little too ployed about what social entrepreneurship is, or should be separated from the so-called limited profit. I understand the ideology of SDS, but it saddens me that Desus did not start talking at least two years earlier, and he left this coalition if he saw that he would not be able to do as Prikl said very properly. Energy self-sustainment. We who live in Maribor only get a little bit to the border and look across. Each congregation has already arranged it there. Except for rare exceptions, Dr. Golob speaks little about this, currently not in the interest of the Slovenian energy lobby. Locally grown food, self-sustainment. Just before yesterday, I was reading an example of a French town that would already be the size of a middle-class municipality in Slovenia, where they decided that in all three primary schools they would have 100 % bio, eco food. What we used to eat when I was seven. And they're very successful at it. The municipality booked and bought over 100 hectares and also reduced the dumping of food in the trash and so on. You could be telling a whole bunch of stories right now. You could talk about the Preston model. An industrial city in England that is totally collapsing, but it's not what Tonin says that we should let it all privatize, but take it back into the property of the community, ownership of the city, ownership of the municipality, and thus reduce the sums on the stakes, which is also the responsibility of politics. But the best thing they do is what every Austrian chamber does. I know a lady from their agri-farming chamber, whose job is to call at 120 family farms for two months and only sees the financial balance so that a farmer or farmer can do farming, and advises, see, this goes, this goes, this will not work. The lady is in support of marketing and credit and so on. You teach the right hand in Germany, and you've ever looked at the structure of the German banks. When you go to Brnik, you see who owns it and how it owns it. These are all things in a broader sense that we should talk about here. But first, I'm going to fall out of the National Assembly like a bunch of scarves who aren't able to talk about it. I used to look here: 5 of us in the papers, 15 of you were on the tarts. Good morning! I'd ban it, I'd have it like the Italian Parliament, you could call an expert, and the gerets out. The intruder would have put them here in this hall so we wouldn't be able to use them. I use text messages to get experts to check my data and write. One of you is looking to buy shoes. It's some distorted form of social entrepreneurship. And what Susanna said, about kleptocratism, about corruption, and so on. Your prominent member who sits in the first place described your client to me as follows: you know, because we are not actually a customer, we are a private company of one person. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u25	Anybody else want to discuss this? Even if he does, he obviously won't show it, so I'm closing the debate. I am also putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the SMC and Desus parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? It's already been consumed. So I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking the 8th item of the agenda. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is a second defensive proposal for a law to encourage the development of tourism within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mrs Eva Stravs Podlogar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u26	Mr President, honourable Members, thank you for your kind words. As this is a second reading of the proposal for a new law to promote the development of tourism, I will briefly present to you the innovations it brings. The bill comprehensively regulates the area of promoting the development of tourism at national and tourism levels, sets out the method of planning and activities for the implementation of the strategy for the sustainable growth of Slovenian tourism, defines the role of the country, municipalities, providers of tourism services, civil society and sets out the necessary funds or sources of funding for this purpose. The law provides that the tasks related to the marketing and promotion of Slovenia's comprehensive tourist offer will continue to be carried out at the national level by the Slovenian Tourist Organisation, which will obtain additional financial resources for this purpose specifically for the purpose of the promotion of Slovenian tourism abroad. The proposal for a law regulates the granting of public authority as an opportunity for other legal persons to participate in the implementation of individual measures and activities in the area of promoting the development of tourism. New foundations also regulate the granting of legal personality status in the public interest in promoting the development of tourism. Planning and implementing the promotion of tourism development at the level of the tourist area remains the responsibility of the municipalities and dedicated sources of financing for promoting tourism development, such as a tourist tax and part of a gambling concession, are set out. The law's proposal in the light of established regulation brings a number of novelties. Let me first mention the increase in the amount of the tourist tax and the introduction of a new promotion fee. The tourist tax is a dedicated resource for the provision of tourist activities and services in the public interest, from information tourism activities and development, and from the marketing of a comprehensive offer to the development and maintenance of common tourist infrastructure facilities and natural and cultural attractions. The amount of the tourist tax will be determined separately in the future. In the law we restricted the upper limit, which is a maximum of 2.5 euros. The municipalities will determine the amount of the tourist tax depending on the development ambitions of the individual municipality and the agreement with the tourist economy. In determining the height, they will take into account the type and category of accommodation facilities, the acquisition during a seasonal or non-seasonal period, and the extent and benefits of services provided free of charge to tourists. The law also provides for a category of persons who are exempt from tourist charges. and persons who have received half the exemption. The municipalities may, by their own rules, lay down additional exemptions for the payment of tourist fees according to their target groups. The method of charging the owners of holiday homes and holiday apartments and tourist vessels is not substantially changed, the bill provides for a scale to pay this fee and its maximum amount. And the promotion fee is a novelty in marriage. The promotion fee will be paid by the guests along with the tourist. It will be set at 25% at the charged amount of the tourist tax. The promotion fee will be the direct income of the Slovenian Tourism Organisation. It will be designed to plan and implement marketing and to promote Slovenia's comprehensive tourist offer, which will have an impact on the increase in tourism traffic across Slovenia. Furthermore, I would like to point out the renewal of the conditions for the organisation and sale of tourist packages, which are very simplified under the applicable law. The proposal for a law takes account of the EU Directive and also lays down exceptions to which the licence requirement will not apply, which will make it very easy to organise trips as well as tourist packages prepared by schools and societies. The call for a tourist guide remains regulated, as well as the profession of a local tourist guide, only a tourist companion or road leader will be deregulated. With the amendment of the law, we wanted to encourage some key elements for the further growth of Slovenian tourism, which for the fourth year in a row represents record results and represents a 13% share in the social gross product, ensure a good business environment, establish an active partnership between all stakeholders at the national, destination and local level. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the arguments presented, I propose that you support the bill. If the amendments adopted are less than a dozen articles, we propose that the third consideration of the bill be carried out at the same meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u27	The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Andreja Potočnik for the presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u28	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the Government, colleagues and colleagues from the National Assembly! The Committee on the Economy is at its 54th emergency session. 1. 2018 as a parent labour body treated the above-mentioned proposal of the law. At the meeting, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups remove most of the comments contained in the written opinion. The concerns of the service remain open to Article 12 concerning the conditions for the award of public funds without invitation to tender and Article 16, paragraph 3, relating to the obligation to pay the tourist tax of holiday owners or apartments. The meeting was also attended by the President of the Slovenian Tourist Association and the Committee on Tourism of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, who expressed his principled support for the proposed law and gave a positive assessment of the solution to the independent determination of the amount of the tourist tax by the municipal councils. The meeting was also attended by a representative of the Hostelling Association of Slovenia, who presented arguments for the reduction of the tourist tax for the nights of young people in accommodation facilities included in the international network of youth hostels. The meeting was also attended by a representative of the Chamber of Tourism and Guests of Slovenia, who expressed support for the proposed law and presented arguments for the proposed reduction of the tourist tax for accommodation in camps. In the debate, members and members stressed the importance of tourism as an economic sector with high growth potential and pointed out the need for effective measures to promote and market Slovenian tourism. Most of the discussers were of the opinion that the proposed law provides an appropriate basis for the financing and implementation of systemic measures and solutions in the field of tourism, while a member of the opposition drew attention to a number of dilemmas and unresolved issues. The opinions of the members and members of the Committee differed as regards the corresponding amount of the tourist tax in the individual types of accommodation and as regards the percentage of the promotional fee. In addition, it has been pointed out that it is necessary to ensure the use of the promotional fee, which some discussers believe is properly regulated in the proposed law. Finally, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u29	Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 37th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 18 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Tomaž Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u30	Thank you. We have adopted a rather ambitious strategy for the development of tourism. Ambitiously, in the next three years, we anticipate increasing tourism revenues by one billion to one and a half billion, increasing the number of tourism workers by about 4,000 additional people and increasing the number of overnight stays, more than a million nights per year. This means, in fact, an ambitious plan, but it needs to be implemented, concrete measures and opportunities for the development of tourism. That is why I consider this proposal to be necessary and also meaningful. I believe that most of these solutions do not agree that some things may be at stake and that the law has also gone through that initial problem, which began with solving the problem of these tourist arrangements or through schools that we cannot treat in the same way as tourism travel, and that this solution was logically expected in this law. And then they started adding content that at least makes sense to me. This, let's say, the tourist boom we're witnessing has several reasons within the country. We all agree that we live in a truly beautiful country, with many natural, cultural and other attractions, and, on the other hand, we only need to be aware that there is a need to invest a lot in all these burdened areas, from municipal to water supply, and also to the proper regulation of these burdened areas. Here I would focus on the issue of the possibility of increasing the tourist tax and introducing promotion fees. I live alone in a congregation that earns a lot of money from the tourist tax, I think most in the country, that's over 2 million euros a year. The Piranska Municipality is very busy or is still among the most touristic, if not the most touristic municipality in Slovenia, which, like some others, is facing a really big and growing visit. This requires considerable investment in tourism and in enabling the development of this place, and in particular that this tourism will somehow also be for the people, let's say, kind in some way, which means that much has to be invested. The congregation itself would simply not be able to follow without a tourist tax. The tax itself, given that the State does not practically invest in this part, is not sufficient. Nevertheless, I think it is more appropriate to raise the tourist tax, even to the value of €2 and a half. Here I think some fear that they would overburden only the tourist economy or reduce the arrival of foreign guests in some way. Certainly it is not possible to raise the tourist tax on an easy-to-think decision, but it can usually be in at least such municipalities a decision that is somehow in agreement, in cooperation with the tourism economy, and aimed at achieving precisely certain objectives in this area. That is why I support this decision despite many concerns. I believe it will work. I don't think they're going to be able to lift that tax headlessly either. Even in other congregations, after all, those who have a smaller visit, raising the maximum cost of tourism may not make much contribution and mean that if the visit is not very large, and then there is very little you can do about it. Nor can there be any dilemma regarding the control over the use of money derived from this title. I think that the supervision of the Court of Auditors and, last but not least, the interest of the local community itself and the tourism economy is clear enough that there is no problem and there is no potential for abuse so that this money does not go for the right reasons. The second issue is the promotion fee, which is supposed to represent 25% of the total tourist tax. Whether this percentage is large or small, I personally still think it is slightly larger than I think it could be. On the other hand, Slovenia is a country with a relatively limited economic development potential. The part where we can be good, and where, as I said in the introduction, we have great ambitions, how much we want to earn in the coming years on the subject of tourism, in this part I see a certain sense of promotion fees. From this title will be obtained by the Slovenian Tourist Organisation. I believe that if her work is successful and this money will be invested in an appropriate and well-promoted way, then I think it is also worth accepting. However, it will be necessary to ensure that, in fact, the use of this money from the WTO will also be sufficiently rational in the future. Here I think there are two key items that allow us to take a step further in the field of tourism in our country and a step further towards achieving the established strategy. Some of the other things that this law includes that we have discussed less are also meaningful. This is a deregulation of the profession for the tourist guide, which remains regulated, but in particular for the escort, which does not require and does not require such criteria as for the tourist guide. I think these are the solutions that go in the right direction and address some of the shortcomings that have been present. That is why I think, somehow, I am trying and looking positively at the proposed changes in terms of achieving what we want in the area of tourism. I also support such a marriage for these reasons, and I believe it is going in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u31	Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u32	Thank you very much, President. Tomaž saved us a little bit, I am talking to the National Assembly because he was talking about the law, and we are talking only about this amendment, but that he spent at least a little time, because I can see that in this National Assembly there was essentially no work or that euphoria in writing the laws was, I'm going to say, getting into the offices, everyone is writing the laws, no more participating in the normal points where we talk. And the situation is very interesting. Today, we are talking in essence only about the amendment to Article 15, where we are essentially lowering these fees by 50% for persons aged 7 to 18 years and persons aged 18 to 30 who are staying in accommodation facilities included in the international youth accommodation network, is said to be in hostels. Of course, we support that. But there's one thing I have to say. Because of all the crowds, because of all the rush to adopt legislation at this time, I also conducted interviews with certain people who believe that we should lower this tax elsewhere. Even the janitors came to us, and we can't help them now because we couldn't put the amendment in place in time. I think that they should also have this leave 50%, because they are specific guests and we can thus have them with such a high fee – of course I am aware of what Tomaž said the municipalities would regulate the tax themselves – we will also drive away. They are, in a way, specific guests who have a special relationship to nature, to tourism, and they are also people who have a lot of money. Now you're going to say it doesn't go together, a low tax and a lot of money. But, you know, they're on wheels, they can drive by and go to another destination, and so we lose one of these. Mostly, we're sorry we're late. I hope that this increased fee will not make the negative effect that we do not want in tourism and that tourism deserves. We have taken advantage of the fact that we have a safe country, that we have a beautiful country, that we have 200 kilometers from the Alps to the sea. But tourism, they say, is people. Tourism is a story, and I hope that because of possible too many eyes in collecting various fees and money, we will not lose the tourist. I will support this amendment. I'll also support the law. But given that this mandate will no longer give, if we see the trend of guests falling, we will probably have to change something, so the laws are changing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u33	I'll still allow myself a business explanation. First of all, the established business practice or parliamentary practice is that there is a broader debate on such matters in Article 1 which also enables the public to understand the content and not the individual details that the public is most likely unable to follow. But everything else that has been described is both constitutionally and commercially possible and perhaps nothing extraordinary is happening in this. This can happen exceptionally if you compare it with previous experiences. I don't have the experience to compare them. I'm comparing what's legal. The word is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. You could have done without a gentleman. I strongly agree with what colleague Han has said, but I do not agree that we are not working. I'm probably working too hard here, to the detriment of my own health. And it's also true that we have a crazy situation. You can't go to the bathroom anymore, so that some MP or an MP from the SMC doesn't push the law into your hands. Let's touch these cabs. Based on the position of the Left, it would be fair to charge the fee according to categorisation. Then we should touch a little more seriously on the categorisation of tourist facilities. Look why. You know, in this reference, we talk the most about money. And I was recalculating. Let's say that a gay or lesbian couple who had one child from earlier, one teenage boy from Bangladesh, adopted a refugee for ten days on leave, if they could afford it, to a congregation that would be allowed to maximize this: 2.5% for national promotion and reach an amount of €93.75. I've got kids for half the computer. In short, three adults. In order for a tourist municipality, colleague Tomaž, who was the mayor of the municipality with the most said, to say well, we go to 1.7 and this conversion plus 0.25 brings us to 63.75 euros. These aren't little pennies for a particular family's wallet. There are relatively few of us here, and there is something that we know about tourism. Okay, Han went, we have three mayors, two of the tourist municipalities, Marko worked in tourism, I was running a family tourist company, a man could say that I was working in black, from cleaning toilets to baking pancakes, to how much when an English tourist gets hit by an airplane on the Lakes of Belope, you have to deliver a second bike to him, etc. That's the kind of tax I said. It would be fair to have a categorization fee. Otherwise, we always get to what Matjaž was talking about, one is more lobbyistically skilled, one is slightly forgotten, one starts shouting when it's actually too late. If we touch on tourism itself, I must repeat again what Mr Restoration said to children to go to these schools because they were not accepted for anything else. You know, there's sometimes less to tourism. Every executive, government only shows some numbers. Those of us who get to know each other a little bit about tourism know that the main gumerabica is the number of nights and how many pennies will be left with us. You know, because tourism is basically very simple: smile, be honest with people, the garage in the season even after 18 hours a day, don't strain people, and then the man inside will leave you as much money as he has. And if you're very good, he's gonna leave you 10% more because he's gonna say, look, I'm having a good time here, and I'm gonna cover it up. That's the point. I'm asking this mandate about Pohori. What was the answer? The first answers were, yes, almost nothing will be done, then the Minister read to me some of the old European projects that they were doing, and then we came literally, not to make fun of me, to make fun of Maribor and Styrians, when I got the government's response and they gave me all the facilities on Pohorje, and who has some cabins in the lease, and who has something private and what is under Telekom, they said, look, because most of the time in Pohorje are owners of these, but not at a bad bank. We've got a third season now, and if you've had one of your omika die and no one lives in the house for three years, you know what time it is. So there's no good reason to thank you. But if I touch the rights of a worker, it's an area where there's definitely too low wages. Yesterday we had a marriage, a state road, and someone said, "What does this have to do with tourism?" And I made it very clear what should be done there, advertising and such pollution. But since she suggested Lefty and Ducky, it's a mess. We can write anything into the strategy, and lock me up for a week, and I'll write you a strategy for the rest of my life. And they'll be very good because I've been doing this for a quarter of a century. But there's another way to translate it. It is also true that tourism is linked to the reform of local self-government. Let's stop blinding ourselves, taxis, even if they are, these pennies will always be too small. Tomaž could speak or colleague Dani from some areas, when we are likely to die, and Vršič will not be transported in winter. This isn't exactly launching on Mars. But, you know, we really need in two mandates of the region, where infrastructure will then be transferred and the thinking of infrastructure and the actual thinking of tourism, and also to prevent people who privatise this tourism in a way of monopolising it. At the beginning of this term, we had one debate on tourism when I said it – what happened? The journal Dnevnik ripped my statements out of context and wrote "Tourist Racer on Tourism". Why? Because I was talking about monopolizations. In one end of Slovenia, Mr Petan monopolizes this, in the other end of the HIT, in the third end I do not know who. Marko will be able to tell you who tourism is in Primorska. [[…]] But you know, when I'm in Kranjska Gora, HIT jumps at the price of the apartment, and good morning! Comrade Breznik will also say something of international experience. That's how it's supposed to be about tourism. Unfortunately for me, no one here has seriously read any articles where, I call it, the outgoing Restoration Act, where we have very much written in which infrastructure the country can co-finance, and with what percentages it can co-finance, without some serious guardians, how it will be done. This is like that similar law, which we will deal with later, on the promotion of investments when it is written down that the Minister or Minister will be “at the discretion of the Court”. Well, I mean, good morning! In the 21st century, after 25 years of what lunatics in Maribor call a place. In this way we cannot write laws and need much stronger guards. And no matter how much Luke the Moon writes it in the Ministry like that, he'd be talking about the same thing. This government, in particular its SMC part, is writing laws that will set up potential corruption for some of the future who get to the trough. And this is the universe from the new policy Cerar promised. I'll stop here. But we will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u35	Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u36	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Well, hello, all of you! As you know, at the first reading of this bill as well as on the home work body, I had a comment on the amount of the tourist tax, especially on the promotion fee. I think that tourist companies should contribute to the promotion fee, hotels that will have some of it. You know that they wanted to go to Slovenia, all these major and largest hotels are mainly owned by foreigners. For all the promotions that there will be more tourists in these hotels, the tourist will have to pay for himself, the consumer. I certainly don't think that's right, and I think I've already suggested it on my working body to put it in a different order, but I'm afraid it didn't work out. Such a tourist tax remains the same as it is, i.e. increased, which I do not like, but I certainly think it is good at least – I hope that this amendment, which we have proposed by the coalition parties – will be adopted – that a reduced fee is charged to children and young tourists, that is, tourists up to the age of 30 who are members of this travel union, who are therefore staying overnight in these hostels. However, I would like to see that this fee has been reduced for those who are taking vacations in various tourist camps, but this has also convinced me by the other Members on the home committee, but they had a different opinion that today's stay in camps is also a kind of luxury and that there are people who have enough under their thumb and can pay a normal, that is to say, an increased tourist tax. I don't agree with that either. I think there are many who are in camps because they do not have that much money for hotels, but it is cheaper than in hotels and private tourist accommodations, and they are also preferable in nature, which is also right and better for health. At least that's my personal opinion. I will certainly support this amendment because it seems to me that at least this is accepted if it is no longer what I want. However, as it is possible today to have such a general debate on the proposal of this tourist law, I would like to say this. I would also like to see more control over the purposeful use of these funds, so that these municipalities collecting this tourist tax still report to the competent ministry how these funds have been spent. I think there would be nothing wrong with the Ministry having a review of the situation, how all this tourism infrastructure and offer has improved, given that the tourist tax will now be higher and also this promotional fee. These are my views on this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u37	Procedurally, Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u38	Nevertheless, the President, that I respect you, did not leave me alone. I thought I'd be quiet, but I can't be. Let me get this straight. If we have this policy in hand, I said earlier – we have only one amendment today and we have only one real amendment, and it is only right to talk about this amendment. Nothing else. Because, just hypothetically, if it weren't for this amendment, we wouldn't be having a debate today. The government would have five minutes, a mother's working body five minutes, and we'd go home. [[advertising from the hall]] No, not at home, but maybe one of us would go to the offices, and the other one would go to write laws. So much for what we can say and what we can't say. Thank you very much. This is, however, from Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u39	Each other article has a parliamentary practice in the background, which has remained unchanged since the beginning of this term in such matters, and I see no reason to bring it back to life for the last three months. On another matter, however, I explicitly stated when such a narrowing would take place to allow normal work in Parliament, and in particular how matters fall on the agenda of the Parliamentary meetings of the National Assembly. Is there still a debate? Yeah. First Danilo Anton Ranc, then I'll reopen the debate. Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u40	Mr President, thank you for saying so. I must make a comment that I do not agree with my colleague Han to limit some parliamentary democracy and the possibility of discussing, especially the content, the good content and the amendment that I will now talk about. Don't make any mistake. I am talking about an amendment, which I fully support, but of course I reserve the right to speak, within the framework of this amendment, about a successful project by the Ministry of the Economy, which is tourism, which is a good part of the management approach, the project approach of the Minister of Economy and Technology, which comes from tourism, and has been able to put good practices into practice in the field of tourism, which is also part of this law, including this amendment, which I will now explain in detail why I support it, gives new opportunities and puts tourism in a place that also belongs to it and creates us all some additional prosperity. I am saying this because in the past governments we have had a bunch of strategies that we did not know how to put into practice. Today, we also use this amendment, which we support, to apply legal practice that enables the development of tourism. We have adopted, within the Ministry of Economy of Minister of Restoration, a strategy for sustainable growth in the development of tourism, in which we have recognised the natural characteristics of nature, environment and also set the goal of promoting tourism, the goal of raising travel from 3.7 billion to 4 billion, then increasing tourism visits to 5 million nights, then from 16 million to 18 million nights, visits to 5 million tourists. So we're talking about a new form of tourism organisation. This amendment and this law provide the legal framework for this strategy to be applied in practice in tourism and for tourism to become one of the most successful industries in our economy. Let us not forget what tourism means to generate jobs, to promote infrastructure development, regional development, sustainable development and that this was not an accident. The Ministry is also increasing funds for promotion, including through the drafting of this law, which I fully support, to increase funds for promotion. We are also talking today in this amendment about raising funds, because you cannot apply a strategy in practice if you do not have resources. We know that, in the division of budgets, we have thus maimed this ministry, almost the most, so they have to organise, find and adopt a law that has brought some additional source of promotion. Tourism, of course, represents 12.8% of the social product and also means a production multiplier: 1.75, gives 45 000 jobs and has increased enormously the number of nights and incomes over the past 25 years. So today, as I have already mentioned, we are adding these strategic documents to this amendment and also to this law implementing legislation, which was a lack of past governments that have adopted some strategies that have been embedded in drawers, but there was no operational law that would apply it in practice. Let me reiterate that this is an example of the good practice of the sectoral approach of the Ministry of Economy, which has already started with the establishment of the Slovenian Tourist Agency, its autonomy. And the results are here, of course. However, I cannot go beyond some successful projects that have been specifically implemented. The example of Lipica, who after a long period of playing, living, is becoming a successful project. This law and this amendment are likely to make this possible further, as additional funds may be added for promotion and other funds in the context of the collection of this money. Of course, I would not neglect cultural tourism and technical cultural heritage, even here I see opportunities. Let me mention the underground of Peca in Koroška, which is essentially an abandoned mine, which has become a great destination. Recently, we are also thinking about the centre of industrial history and cultural heritage, which could become an additional content of this successful project and the management of tourism by the Ministry of Economy. Let me stress once again that I fully support this amendment. I also make it public that I can view the Ministry of the Economy as one of the most successful, as well as the Minister, because it introduces, through good practices, some strategic orientations that produce good results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u41	I'm guessing someone else wants to discuss it, so please sign in. Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. My friend Han started very hard, but I don't care. [[Laugh]] In view of this practice, which is a series of years in the National Assembly, when everyone "grabs" about everything, and I think it doesn't matter which member it is now, but it does talk about a variety of things. We wouldn't talk about it that way. But it's true that this hyperproduction has been a little bit lately, I'll say, ridiculous. Let me get back to the point of tourism development. This is one of those interesting debates and laws. I've been here all my life defending tourism. The steps that have been taken are in the right direction. This law will certainly have to be drunk a little longer in order to be as it should be. But there is one thing about tourism, and what you said, Han – tourism is people. And with us, people are very happy with the nice money that comes from tourists when they have to give something, but it's already a problem. We have this tourist tax, which Marinka is probably not aware that hotels do not receive tourist fees, receive them, and then share them. The municipalities then sometimes prefer to promote, more than to invest in infrastructure or investment in the tourism part of infrastructure; but these are other debates. I wanted to say there are a lot of problems in our heads. For example, you won't believe it, our northern neighbours, one small local community is so interested that everyone puts some money into promotions, from hairdresser, innkeeper to shop, and so on, but here we have a taboo topic. If this were to somehow be determined that in the tourist municipalities, each economic shareholder would give his share to this promotion, the entire hall and fire in the house would be. Now this has been achieved, I will say, a compromise, one is right, the other is wrong, but if we want to take big steps in tourism, as well as the objectives set very ambitious to reach these unfortunate 3 billion, it is necessary to work hard and advertise, not in our classic markets, where there are up to 500 kilometers, but to go further – to India, to China, etc. It takes resources to promote yourself. Yeah, you're going together, just like it's been with the Croatian community now. To promote yourself as one of the destinations, however, it is necessary to change even the understanding and concept of this. Slovenia works tourism 365 days a year, Croatia works mainly summer part. We, if we want to be comprehensive and if we want to be some boutique state, boutique tourism representatives – yes, I agree, there is much work to be done and much more needs to be done, here are just the initial steps. I took my stand and still have told the Minister that I am also an advocate of the Ministry of Tourism, because I think it will be one ministry that could really play a leading role in Slovenia against all the other ministries we have. But it is a matter of thinking about how this will be defined. If we are to have this as one of these major development sectors, education and education will have to be subordinated in order to do so, and also pay workers who are quite low, given that each individual working in tourism has at least three to five languages. And that's not appreciated at all. Not to mention working on Saturdays, Sundays, holidays, holidays, and Fridays. This population, which works in hospitality and tourism, is neglected to some extent, and here, if we want to make a higher level, if we want to get this tourism in Slovenia to a higher level, we will have to make a lot of effort and roll up our sleeves. These extensions, which are given in this law, show a desire to do so. Proposals were also taken into account, which was once tried by Nova Slovenije for these educational institutions that carried out professional excursions. Here it was kind of on hand that it wasn't defined as some sort of tourist thing. As far as these tourist guides are concerned. Here, too, they have come to some good compromise. These things need to be worked out, too, so we're not going to be led by foreigners if we're going to work at a higher level. There is much debate on how and what these tourist fees will be used for. I think it's a good way to go in the right direction and pursue some goals. There are also supplements where we have reserves in the gambling law, where it is specified that part of the revenue from gambling should be placed in tourist infrastructure in these tourist municipalities at all. There's an endless possibility of how to work it out. Now it's just a matter of government and a vision of further direction, what we want to do from this tourism. Are we going to cleavage or are we going to be more determined? It must also be made clear and clear that this ministry, and also this government, as far as tourism is concerned, has taken a number of steps forward so as to increase the resources needed for advertising. The results are positive, the trends are positive, it is said, in the right direction that the revenues will be up to 3 billion, which was somehow the goal, as the minister said. This tourist tax is one of the elements of how to get there. There's still a lot to say here. But it's like all laws, and this law can be fixed. There's a lot here. Autodoms, yes, it's also a matter of debate as to what we're going to do about it. I think this is a professional debate first, only then will it come to Parliament. I think this law has some possibility of adding, developing, grinding, as I said before, and the extensions are real. I think this direction should be followed. All these laws can be fixed, added and subtracted in accordance with what the profession requires, what the tourism industry requires, and here I have nothing else to support, because we are actually going into this real vision that we want. So tourism is supposed to be one of the leading industries in Slovenia. I think we have all the options, all the extensions that are appropriate. It's just that we all kind of realize what we want to do, and that we don't stay on the spot, and we throw pollen under each other's feet, because that doesn't make sense. There is, however, a great opportunity, given all natural activities, in view of all the possibilities that we have for another large part of people to be employed, to be employed, to be assigned. But it is, as I said before, a debate on whether this profession is well-valued enough, and there is another broader debate. I'm absolutely in favour of supporting this. But thoughts will be like all things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u43	The text is by Dr. Lázsló Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! My brief discussion in the first part will strictly stick to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and in the second part I will focus on parliamentary practice. As far as the amendment is concerned, I believe that it follows those proposals that have also come from younger populations and some organisations that only cover the interests of young people and other than those of 7 to 18 years of age are now looking for or finding this amendment some solution for those between the ages of 18 and 30. It may not yet be this area or this content is entirely covered, but it is certainly a step towards finding a solution and that is why I will support this amendment. As far as the law is concerned in its entirety, only two comments or views, if you wish. The point is that this bill actually has the basis of a roofing law in the field of tourism and brings some solutions and some basic elements on which tourism can then be built in the long term. From this point of view, this is to be welcomed. This is what we have done within our parliamentary group in the context of the first reading of this law. Secondly, and I conclude with this, we regret that our amendment was not supported by any cultural diversity of areas where the two indigenous national communities live. And because this is not the case, and in our case the amendments were not the case, some explicit emphasis on national ownership, because this was not the cause of our amendments, but, above all, the promotion of the cultural offer and as a new opportunity in this context, it is not clear to us that these amendments have been rejected, and I certainly regret that. As I said before, we are pleased that this law has come and that some levers have been properly set. Regrettably, however, there was no hearing at all about such minimal possible corrections, as the contact in the drafting phase of the amendments was quite limited. Unfortunately, this bitter taste must have been highlighted in the context of this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u45	Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u46	Dear colleagues! Dear President! My colleague Han reminded us to talk about the amendment. So only one amendment was put in place, which speaks of some relief for people, for younger members who come to Slovenia to see it in the form of hostels. We can say that we agree on some things. I believe that the people who study, who come from all over the world to Slovenia as a pearl to look at themselves, may, too, have some positive views of Slovenia, of its beauty, of its endearment as some future intellectuals will most likely come to us in later years, which I find acceptable. Of course, since we are talking about tourism, respected colleagues, I have a completely different view of Slovenia as a tourist destination; from this point of view, the view that Slovenia must cross, move two higher gears, we must start to appreciate and place tourism and position it at a completely different level. For what? Because when I look at our packages, prices, everything else, we cannot afford some mass tourism, low-priced, with which we will never be able to pay people fair, with which people in tourism have a miserable salary, as you find many colleagues, including occupations in tourism – with the exception of rare exceptions – they have an extremely poor image among young people who decide on the educational process in tourism. In all these years, when I am in Parliament, I have indicated some good practices from abroad. Look, Slovenia has, we can say, at this point, more than 150 castles that could be offered to the world. We could give them for 1 euro, offer them to extremely rich people in the world, and here we could start a whole new cycle; for the first time, the restaurants of these castles, the construction of these castles, repair these castles, the introduction of our wood processing industry through building furniture into these castles. Of course, these people also come from their social network of extraordinary — a completely different story of people. We will urgently need this when this cycle is completed economically and where it is already indicated and where our construction or part of the construction sector can go to the rehabilitation of these castles. Slovenia, which takes money from the Ministry of Culture and also uses some European funds to finance or maintain at least a few castles; see, this is devastating in the long run. It's devastating, it's headless, it's not finished, the castles are for rich people who have succeeded in life, so let it stay. The few castles which Slovenia has in its possession, which it has restored, in which it has confused, can be said to have large resources, but to keep, and all the other castles can be transferred, an international tender is made and offered to a wide range of people in the world who have enough money, perhaps even in the destinations that Ferluga has talked about, which we have not yet considered. This is what other countries do, and I will not say exactly in the castle area — say Canada. Someone can come to Canada, get a passport to file 3, 4, a few million euros; see, that's what I want. Someone was talking about Lipica. Lipica is a typical example of continuing some socialist thought; for the first time, Lipica has nothing to do with Slovenia, Lipica is a Habsburg story and Lipico we have maintained on some force at this time, as it is. We can thank some enthusiasts in Lipica for keeping some barns, for keeping some Lipicas, but you should know that because of communism we did not get back to Slovenia after World War II – mostly – elite parts of the herd, almost 300-head herds. Only 17 Lipicans came back to Lipico. Lipica has a third league of Lipicans to know, I lived in Vienna, I would like more, I can even tell a story about Lipica since the Napoleon Wars when the herd was withdrawn, I can talk about World War II, in Hollywood there is even the movie The Miracle of the white passion, where they talk about the Lipicans, where they also talk about General Patton, how he saved the lipicance just to get out of the Russian, so from Czech work to remove them then to Vienna and then they also removed them. Yugoslavia is, like then, a socialist state, as well as the first two years after the war as a satellite of the Soviet Union, we can say, almost the worst part of the herd, 17 Lipicans, maybe 20, but I won't stick to these numbers. Then they continued with socialist experiments; at the 400th anniversary they also made two hotels, which did not even architecturally belong there in Lipico, into this beautiful karst landscape with these beautiful horses. The Grand Hotel, the Hotel Club, of course, has completely failed for several years. A few years ago, I was a guest of Hotel Maestoso, on the floor, where there was also a room in memory of Queen Elizabeth, who visited Lipica, I stepped onto the balcony – on the other hand on the balcony I literally saw on the bars the hanging of workers' underwear and parts of clothes and this is the image of this real socialism still in Lipica! I hope it's been removed now. Colleagues, I want us to do something more. I wish the Slovenians wanted more tourism. We brought half a tournament to Rovinj with our colleagues two years ago. We could bring him to Lipica if Lipica was some kind of story. I have a possible release, I can show you some pictures with Ivana Trump, with complete elite, European elite, the Bismarck family, Habsburg, who were all in Rovinj. Unfortunately, I failed to bring them to Lipica, to make such a tournament in Lipica, and that, I could say, capture a set of Europe, including the world, to start coming to Slovenia. So the Hotel Club is obliged to immediately submit to the international tender in a similar manner as today's government in Postojna Cave, a large privateer who has his social network. I even offered immediate talks with Hotel Sacher in Vienna, which has the Sacher Hotel in Vienna and the Sacher Hotel in Salzburg, that Lipica would give both of them for one euro and set up a five-star luxury hotel to expand the golf course and then set up four-star – they restore this other part of the hotel to Maestoso. We can't do this. In this mandate you are so-called Lipica Tourism, which is in complete loss, which should have long since failed and laid on new foundations, you have literally connected it back to the public institution. Today, these people who are unable to survive on the market are drawing public money from the budget that comes to Lipica, which is for the development of the Lipicas, for the development of healthy Lipicas, to improve our genetic conditions of our Lipicaans, and to draw this money, literally to the Lipicaans, steal this money and finance their incompetence. To your real socialism. So where did we come from, dear fellows? Yes, I agree, with the taxi of Austria, Germany, Switzerland, everyone saves tourism. What about the congregations? The coming of the congregations? What about municipalities that do not have developed tourism, but have great potential? Where are they gonna get them at this point? I don't know what you're doing. I don't know what you're doing. I don't know what you're doing. Look, I don't agree with that. Not to continue that we need a completely different school system, a private school. I was in Switzerland in these hotel schools in private, in Slovenia we have some such private initiatives, we have made a nice step in Slovenian gastronomy, we have some top chefs – I want them to get some Michelin stars in the coming years – I am sure we are capable. Here was one step forward, and everything else continued hopeless, total hopelessness, life in a box of real socialist. Look, we're never going to be able to finance these infrastructures because there's not going to be any added value. We're going down Pohorje, Maribor has to show everything Kangler did when Kangler's gone, Maribor has nothing to show for it. Pohorski tourism would literally go down today. We need a new route to Rush. Colleagues and colleagues from this area, what did you do? Nothing! We need a story. Gold foxes will be gone in a few years, because if there is no line in Russia, but climate conditions no longer allow it, there will also be a story of a high society, a top game that is classic compared to almost Kitzbühl, will fail. With everything else you do, you point to your short-sightedness and this whole mandate you see the views of total ambition, hopelessness and holding some positions, some real socialism, how we will survive something. Look, if we let go if we surround ourselves with better people than ourselves, with richer people than ourselves, Slovenia will live a completely different life, and I hope that this time will come someday, otherwise we will be the oasis of real socialism, where we can show communist monuments, partisan celebrations, and low-priced tourism for 11 euros – swimming together with lunch – where you will not be able to maintain, nor will you be able to buy chlorine for these pools in thermals. That's your model. I hope that if people continue to support this, to support it, then we will have to withdraw from this country now, but I am crying when I hear it, and I will conclude my debate with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u47	We're crying too. Ms Eva Stravs Podlogar, State Secretary, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, thank you very much for your comments and suggestions! In Slovenian tourism, or in the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, we have indeed set ourselves high targets for further developing Slovenian tourism with great emphasis on higher added value, which also means creating better products. Although we have been on the right track for the past few years, we are also told by Banka Slovenije yesterday that in 2017-2017 2017 we also exceeded the travel inflows by 9%, which means 2.4 billion in 201 and 200 million more in 2016. But if I now return to the amendment or article of the law that defines a tourist tax as the primary assigned revenue of municipalities for the development and promotion of tourism together with the work of the collected funds from the gambling concession, then I would like to stress once again that the amount of the tourist tax itself is the reallocation of this tax during the season, outside the season, among the target groups of guests, by the categories of accommodation establishments in the hands of municipalities or local communities that can determine it by decree. These were, for example, motorhomes. At the moment when the municipality has decided seriously to enter the autodomes as a friendly municipality, then make a parking lot for the autodomes, in the first years this fee is minimal, then communicates with the guests and the economy that the fee will be higher so that this parking lot will be given additional infrastructures next year when they visit it. In fact, this is a way that has been in place so far, but given the higher tourist tax, it will certainly accelerate the establishment of an active partnership both between the local community, the tourism economy, destinations and national levels, because it is clear that only one progress can be made together here. It may also be right to say that in the current situation in Slovenia foreign owners of hotel accommodation are even more exceptional than the rule. Almost 40% of Slovenian hotel companies are still owned by the country and, of course, here is also one of the challenges also addressed by the growth strategy of Slovenian tourism, how to find the right owners for the development of Slovenian tourism. I would also like to point out that at the Ministry we are aware that the protection of minority groups is of course extremely important and necessary, but we have estimated that it is precisely because this topic is already included in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and in other laws that it is somehow covered in this part. In addition to monitoring the use of budgetary resources, the Court of Auditors, of course, wants to see some kind of supervision carried out by economic operators as well as by the local population and the local community where they want to devote so much more to tourism. [[…]] Out of 212 municipalities, for example, 50 do not have a decree to collect a tourist tax, about 50 municipalities collect it to thousands of euros and another 50 municipalities to 10,000 euros. Indeed, there are only three municipalities in Slovenia with over a million tourist fees, followed by four municipalities with between half a million and 800 thousand, and then 21 municipalities with between 100,000 and half a million. All these municipalities will, of course, acquire additional development funds, earmarked funds for the development and promotion of tourism in the local area in the proposed way when the law is adopted. And once again, it will be successful only if it does so with all the stakeholders in the city. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, thank you very much. Then I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided tomorrow, which is 15 February, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. I'm breaking the 9th point of the agenda. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is a second defensive proposal for a law to encourage investments in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Ms Eva Stravs Podlogar, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology will do so. But I'm sorry. Okay, last minute. [[…]] Mag. Aleš Cantarutti, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u50	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! You have before you the proposal for an Investment Promotion Act, which will be a system law on investment promotion. But before I touch on the bill itself, allow me a brief leap into history. As early as Athens’ economist and philosopher Xenofont, about 400 years before Christ in his book About Revenues, Athens addressed the maximization of state cash receipts. However, his proposal did not go in the direction of supporting or military conquests, as was the case at the time, but it did seem more appropriate to increase the commercial and investment activities of Athens, including by attracting foreigners who control either trade or trade. He wrote that this will bring greater prosperity to all Athens and Athens. Almost two thousand and a half years later, it is clear that investment for the national economy is one of the most important factors in accelerating economic development. With the bill before you, we want to encourage investment activity in Slovenia, remain competitive compared to other countries in attracting investments, and finally create a simple and predictable system of awarding investment incentives. The draft law adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 16 November last year and forwarded to the National Assembly for adoption following a regular procedure has already been improved by amendments, which will help to facilitate the implementation and achievement of the objectives of the proposed law. Allow me to list some key solutions to the proposed law. Furthermore, the law equates measures to promote investment for both domestic and foreign investors. Under the current legislation, the Law on the Promotion of Foreign Investment and the Internationalisation of Companies only foreign companies or foreign investments are entitled to incentives, which puts domestic investors in an unequal position. Two. It lays down three forms of investment incentives: subsidies, credit incentives, guarantees and subsidised interest rates, and the possibility of purchasing property owned by municipalities at prices lower than market prices. Of course, on the basis of a direct contract, which simplifies the procedure and shortens the time needed to carry out the procedures compared to existing legislation. In doing so, I would like to point out that the decision to sell property under the market price of the municipality is autonomous. The draft law also defines strategic investment and sets out a new decommissioning purpose for the implementation of strategic investment if the public benefit is shown. This is demonstrated if the properties are provided for in the spatial act so precisely that they can be shown in the land cadastral and if the investment reaches 70 % of the points for the criteria in the assessment process. Derogation beneficiary may only be a municipality and the Space Regulation Act shall apply to the decommissioning procedure itself. Let me point out once again here that all the fears about the massive and the potential for afforestation of agricultural land and the like are totally unjustifiable and, of course, beyond the context. [[…]] Of course, the proposal for a law of general action to promote investment and internationalisation sets up a register of high value-added enterprises and a register of innovative start-ups to provide an up-to-date set of companies that have an important place in the country's economic interest. Registers can be the basis for different measures to improve competitiveness. It intervenes minimally in the legislation already in force, as all benefits for companies already in force remain. Thus, the Slovenian economy needs a modern umbrella law in the field of investment promotion, where there will be no difference between encouraging domestic and foreign companies where companies will have appropriate modern investment incentives. We believe that through this approach, which means gradually improving the business and support environment, we will be able to keep already present companies in Slovenia and encourage them to continue expanding their business and attract new investors. This will also further affect the creation of a positive investment climate and optimism, which may mean a new development momentum for the Republic of Slovenia. I suggest you support the bill. Furthermore, if the amendments adopted are less than a dozen articles, we propose that the third consideration of the bill be carried out at the same meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The computer hasn't switched to point 10. [[background advertising]] I'm sorry about something with the Ahasuerus computer, but now it will. [[…]] The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Andreja Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u52	President, thank you for your word. Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on the Economy shall meet at its 32nd regular session. 1. 2018 addressed the above-mentioned proposal for a law. The amendments to the bill were tabled by the SMC, Desus and SD and the NSI Group of Members. At the meeting, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that most of their comments had been taken into account both by amendments and by proposals for amendments to the Committee. However, with regard to the remaining issues, the competent ministry provided mostly appropriate clarifications. The opinion highlighted, inter alia, ambiguities in determining the role of the investor and the recipient of the incentive. There were also a number of uncertainties regarding the normative definition of strategic investment. It could be understood from the Ministry's explanations that only project management can be granted to a strategic investor, but in this case it raises the question why an investor in his role must also, in this case, attach an elaborator with reasons for public benefit and why it must only undertake to maintain an investment in the region for at least 10 years with a certain number of jobs and at the same time provide a bank guarantee for the proper performance of the contractual obligations. With regard to Article 8 of the bill, however, it should be noted that, despite the amendment tabled, it is still not clear how the amount of the building right compensation will be determined. A representative of the Council of State also took part in the meeting and presented some of the issues and opinions of the debaters when considering the proposed law on the competent committee of the Council of State, which had supported the bill, but had some comments, in particular on the level of funding for such subsidies, since the budgets for the next two years had already been adopted. As regards the self-governing local communities, the Commission was asked to consider the proposed solution to sell real estate to investors at non-market prices or even free of charge. Finally, the Commission supports the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce to include trade among the activities for which investment incentives can be granted. The representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia then summarized the content of their comments, in particular as regards the question of whether the trade activity should also be placed among activities eligible for investment incentives. The representative of Omanotere, as one of the members of the NGO network Plan B for Slovenia, pointed out that the proposal for a non-systemic basis for decommissioning, which should be regulated in the recently adopted Spatial Regulation Act, had been systematically regulated. They believe that the bill intends to allow a decommissioning measure already with the promise of economic growth as a pre-uncertain provision of public benefit. In the debate, members and members generally expressed support for the proposed solutions, which are intended to improve the current business environment in Slovenia through various incentives. In particular, the basic intention of the bill was commended, which equates the status and benefits enjoyed by both domestic and foreign investors. Nevertheless, the view was expressed that this proposal is in fact a bad conscience for the government because of the recently adopted lex Magna. There is a stronger social note missing from the basic provisions of the bill. Some have also been disturbed by the regulation of a new non-systemic decommissioning reason for public benefit in the event of a strategic investment. They also pointed out poor media-response cases of direct investment in Slovenia. The Committee voted on the amendments and, at the end of all articles of the bill, adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended amended law, which includes the adoption of all amendments, is prepared. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! One of the major issues that employed Slovenian political, economic and other public in this mandate was, of course, the question of the realisation of the so-called strategic investment of Magna in Hoča near Maribor. This case, you do not want, has exposed the fact that in Slovenia we did not have a strategy of a systematic approach to attracting and making greater private investments. We also poorly hunted the balance between helping the private and protecting the public interest. Its focus on attracting foreign investors was particularly disruptive in the current system, while the potential of many domestic potential investors that are still between us has been forgotten. Let's just remember what happened to Mr. Roast. In order to move forward, it was necessary to recognise that the country must play an active role in obtaining new investments that meant development, new and quality jobs and greater prosperity for all. We need an active country here, not just a free market, as some people like to say. As soon as the state starts to play this role, we run into new issues and new dilemmas – the issue of equality before the law or why we do not equally help all investors, including the local ones; the issue of protection of public interest and private property, which confronts the interests of a private investor, a country or a local community and all people who are residents or owners in the proposed area of investment. Thirdly, issues of respect for the environmental, labour and social standards achieved, which, as Social Democrats, we want not only to preserve but also to upgrade. In order to realise the first such investment in this mandate, it was therefore necessary to adopt a specific law setting out the conditions for carrying out a major investment in an area which was not intended to do so, following procedures that are simpler than the current one, with the extreme possibility of decommissioning landowners, which would impede the implementation of an investment with unreasonable requirements. Let us note in particular that in this case these extreme possibilities, thank God, have not been used. At the time of addressing the so-called lex Magna, the Social Democrats, together with the support of the law, also highlighted the need for this area to be regulated within an integrated legal framework, so that conditions and restrictions in the future will be equal for all and proportionate to the desired effects. The bill, which provides such a legal framework, is before us today. What has proved to be sensitive in the treatment of this law is possible interference with the private property of ordinary people who own real estate in the investment area. A equally sensitive area is the protection of rights that could be affected by the environmental, social or other side effects of the investment made, and it was therefore important for us as Social Democrats to define publicly the general conditions, size and objectives of the individual investment, which could then be assisted in such a law; that it is clearly established, reasoned and also justified, that public interest can even fall into the private property of people at an extreme stage. It is only in this way that we can ensure that the interests of people, the state and the public, but not only the interests of a private investor, are indeed being pursued in support of investment. We believe that a lot of efforts have been made by the Social Democrats to clarify these issues, which are why we today have a relatively good proposal for a law. This law clearly recognises that private investments that will bring new and quality jobs with high added value are also in the public interest, provided that certain conditions are met and are carried out under the watchful eye of the public. This puts them at the side of other major infrastructure projects, in particular infrastructure projects, where it is also considered that the interest of the community prevails over the interests of the individual. What is different in the case of investments is the fact that the investor, the private capital that invests in its own benefit, the public benefit or interest are indirect. It is therefore extremely important that it be clearly defined and checked in each individual case whether and how private investment also follows public interest, which is mainly reflected in new quality jobs. In this way, it is ensured that the limits outlined by our constitution in promoting investment will not be exceeded. In our view, the derogations from the system rules which this law applies in certain cases are proportionate to the objectives and, above all, to this law. We believe that in concrete procedures when the people and the people concerned are activated, they will lay down laws applied with due care that the interests of capital will not overtake the will, the rights of the people. Because of all the above, and because of all the things I have said now, we will also support the Social Democrats' law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Trček will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u56	For the last time, thank you for your word today. The proposed law, which is due, of course, to lex Magna, can be renamed the law on unlimited jurisdiction of foreign capital and its interests. It is the crown jewel of Mr Restovalska's ministry, the private profit is attributed to the public interest and we will vote against the law in Levica. Why? Spatial and environmental standards and work rights are not intended for themselves and they are not investments that hinder sky-digare – Restoration would be said by eco-terrorists and so on – are the expression of social consensus. These standards are here so that the economy is not destructive to the environment and people, Article 74 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states, quote, “economic activity must not be carried out contrary to public benefit”. In Article 67, I quote, "the law defines the way and acquisition of property by ensuring its economic, social and environmental function." Although the proposed law does formally destroy domestic and foreign capitalists, it is clear that it is primarily foreign investment, the desire to attract foreign investment in the countries of force to adopt for the majority of citizens and citizens harmful legislation, the competition between individual countries is becoming a competition in reducing labour rights, for example by deregulation of professions, which is a popular approach of this government and coalition, with lower labour costs, the loosening of environmental standards and the reduction or even the abolition of capital and profit taxes. All of this lowers the standard of living of the entire population and puts the tax burden on the shoulders of the workforce. Workers, unlike capital, cannot escape to Cyprus or to the Republic of Serbia. We live in a globalised world where capital is almost without obstacles. For working people, the only thing worse in capitalism is that capital is drawn from them by profits, just by not being unemployed. Acquiring investments in the way the law introduces is a race to the bottom for the whole country. The bill is also harmful directly. The main problem is the introduction of a new decommissioning purpose to dispossess real estate owners for the implementation of a strategic investment. It intervenes in a constitutional right that can only be taken for the public benefit, and we propose the deletion of this Article in Levica. Dismantling is not the only issue in this law. The criteria for strategic investment and the granting of subsidies show that the country does not have a clear concept of economic development, since the MGRT, the minister or the minister, as stated in the law, should, according to the opinion, propose when a country with a financial injection should encourage investment. And the government will then – what? Confirmed by the National Assembly? Which is an example of the anti-constitutional kidnapping of the powers of the National Assembly by the executive branch of power. So much for the transparency and new policy promised by Mr Cerar. The criteria relating to the environment and space are even more problematic. These criteria are already taken into account in the spatial planning process, as incentives are once again taken into account, thus opening up the possibility of changing land use by blackmail and or political trade. Nor does the bill provide an answer to how the interests of work, of employment, will be protected. There is no protector anywhere to ensure that investments from which people can live with dignity are promoted, paid for their work, and, of course, have the possibility of union organisation. Are we going to budgetaryly support investments that will continue the employment exclusion policy? There is also no mention of the promotion of youth employment. Are we still going to be without policies for under 40 years? The threshold for granting subsidies is so high that it largely prevents the law of the domestic Slovenian economy or of the company, if you want. The coalition, as well as the right part of the opposition, has a full mouth of the Industrial Revolution 4.0. At the same time, this law clearly shows that you do not understand the fact that in the future the work organisation will be numbered smaller, but will unite and grow, even in new forms of society. Where is this marriage? Nowhere! In view of everything, it is clear that we will not support marriage in Levica; we cannot support it! Today we will hear high-flying words, but we must not sit on them. When we put capital on one side and on the other, the environment and people, the political decision should be very simple, because we are told this, as I have already quoted in the introduction, our constitution. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Dr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u58	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! Investments are certainly a driver of development and are very important for every society and therefore the proposal for a law brings some positive changes, particularly the equalisation of foreign and domestic investors. However, we see a pattern in the proposals: otherwise it is a good idea, details spoil this idea, we do not know which stakeholders are behind these details and what their interests are. You know, after that saying that the devil is hiding in detail. One European directive, the necessity of updating the law, the financial consequences that follow – in a negative sense – is cited in such a proposal if this is not accepted. And then you hide some more technical details inside and what's most important: the interest of someone to earn. It is good that we have a legislative and legal service, interest groups, the State Council to draw attention to mistakes. However, they should also be taken into account. We can nomotechnically point out that certain regulations and provisions of the European Union are summarised. However, not entirely because it asks for legal certainty. This is an infringement of property law: a conflict between capital and, on the one hand, people and the environment. He already realized capitalism had gone too far in his predatory version. It goes to the detriment of people and to the damage of the environment and is also capitalism in transition into some new modern form. And it is these modern forms of the Scandinavian model that this bill does not allow, it does not allow guards for people and the environment. The definitions regarding State aid are unclear, the responsibilities of the investor are unclear and the problems will arise if the funds obtained are to be recovered, how this will be implemented. I stress, therefore, the implementation of the proposal and the financial implications are problematic. That is why we will not support the proposal in the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Ms Andreja Potočnik will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! During the government of Dr. Mir Cerar and the ministry of Zdravka Počvalska, the Republic of Slovenia made a remarkable success in attracting foreign investments. Together, we have succeeded in attracting some of the great names of the world economy. Domestic labour, infrastructure, quality of connection with foreign markets and quality of life enjoyed by citizens of the Republic of Slovenia is increasingly interesting to our economic environment. We are convinced that Yaskawa and I have managed to obtain a highly technologically sustainable investment in Kočevje. Yaskawa will satisfy around 80% of the European robot needs by opening a new robot manufacturing company in Slovenia. We are convinced that despite numerous complications and political backstage games, Magna attracts the largest investment in the history of the Republic of Slovenia. In this process we have achieved much for Slovenia and enormous for Maribor with its surroundings and most for the working man who wants to work in his country. What will the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have to do with the investments? With the arrival of investors, we especially hope for greater demand for labour and thus pressure to raise wages, as said Minister Restoration for the Saturday Annex, in addition to all other indirect effects. For the domestic economy, it is also important that this is the first time we will equalise domestic and foreign investors. We have laid down the conditions and criteria enshrined in the law that the company will have to comply with if it wishes to obtain one of the forms of assistance provided by the State provided for by the law. The fact is that the basic conditions laid down in the law for strategic investment are high. Among other things, the investor must provide a minimum of EUR 40 million in processing or service activities or EUR 20 million in development and research activities. The strategic investor must create and maintain 400 new jobs in processing or service activities or 200 new jobs in development and research activities. The investment must remain in Slovenia for at least 10 years. The proposal for a law on investment promotion and decommissioning in the case of strategic investments provides for the ultimate measure for the acquisition of real estate needed for these types of investments. At the same time, the proposal of the law provides that a clear decommissioning purpose for strategic investment must be laid down if public benefit is to be shown for this. It is also important that the law provides for the approval of the investment by a decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which includes, inter alia, a list of land plot properties that may be subject to decommissioning. In this way, the Government will have to carry out, in accordance with the proposal of the law, an assessment of the eligibility of private property intervention, while at the same time showing a reasoned conclusion that the strategic investment in public interest, which promotes economic growth and employment, is consistent with regional development, which will give rise to the argument that the dissuasion is proportionate to the intervention in private property. In the SMC Group, we added an amendment, which included the contribution of investment to the transition to the circular economy, based on natural resources, causing lower greenhouse gas emissions and allowing production with a lower carbon footprint. This follows the trend in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and the commitments to target responsible policies, including the content of strategies adopted in the Republic of Slovenia. We also expect that our amendment proposal will also be part of the content of the regulation, where individual parameters for the allocation of investment will be identified. In the SMC Group, of course, we support the long-awaited proposal for an Investment Promotion Act. On this occasion, I would like to congratulate the Minister and the Minister's team on the great efforts that we have been able to make in this mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In front of us is the last third of the so-called three absurd real-socialist laws. Here's the third one. This is the Investment Promotion Act. The Government of Mira Cerar has, we can say, made efforts to make the Slovenian business environment worse as much as possible by the end of this term. High VAT, income classes, added value, i.e. large income scales, on the other hand abnormal bureaucratic barriers, increasing these bureaucratic barriers, a country with 20,000 laws and sub-laws, a government that has employed the last year and a half of almost 8 thousand 500 people in the public sector and has been spreading Slovenian bureaucracy at a time when the whole world is talking about artificial intelligence, entering the fourth industrial revolution, linking data, where every normal economist knows the first sentence about the lean country, talks about the moderate use of public and state finances for the needs of the country or for the management of the country and, on the other hand, the development of entrepreneurship. All of these are signs that show that this country has an extremely poor business environment with several aspects. To this end, we can list the fully monopolized position of the educational process, which does not put on the human resource market to meet the needs of emerging technologies, such as bionics, mechatronics, nanotechnologies, engineering. This government has completely distorted the law on the dual school system, we have only four professional groups, we have 54 signed contracts on the dual school system, in the whole world around us, in particular Austria, Germany and Italy, a dual school system is working extremely well. Now it comes to an end when everything is destroyed, with some law that only those who are to be, we can say, blessed will give them special conditions for an investment. Then I'll tell you what the Magne procedure was. What a literally controversial procedure, the constitutionally contentious procedure, has also been brought before Magna himself. So far, I have not said this, but now I will literally prove to you, this is an abuse, this is a constitutional dispute, the complete ride of all legal articles, including the regulation of space and everything else. Then you'll say I'm against Magna. The man wanted to bring Magno back in 2012, not against Magna, but it's about the special procedures you're using. This is a typical case where procedures will be misused again – what is also absurd, I agree with the United Left or now with the Left, because that is true. [[…]] So, at the moment the business environment is destroyed, we literally, on the other hand, scare Slovenian workers by even cheaper labour from the south, former republics. So Slovenia will be fully known, we can say, closed work, on the one hand, due to poor business conditions and, on the other hand, we will import low-priced labour. And that's our added value! Two more laws before that we are all talking about social entrepreneurship. And people of God, we're putting a billion euros into the school system to make our final product social entrepreneurship! Yes, social entrepreneurship as an addition to some serious economic system. See, the Investment Promotion Act – this is even administratively controversial. This is also discussed by the Legislative and Legal Service, Article 69 of the Constitution, speaks, this discharge is not fully clarified which will take place. As someone before me said today, yes, and this law also allows Slovenian companies. What companies? What companies have so much capital standing before the Slovenian government today and say they will invest in the Slovenian business environment and employ so many people? How many small entrepreneurs do they have so much money to get into this marriage? How many small entrepreneurs today, if they were given better conditions, would hire maybe two or three people, and there would be 10 or 20 thousand such small entrepreneurs, and in the end this could be 40,000 new jobs in some relatively medium term. And maybe it would be entrepreneurs who would be more in IT systems, in nanotechnologies — all I'm saying — and these people today could be hiring people where there would not be a minimum wage to talk about far over a thousand euros of net wages and so on. This is where it starts! It starts with a good business environment, debarcation, liberalisation, the sale of that state property that we don't need – of course to institutions that are, I can say, in a chain or in the same industry. This is where it starts! Finally, the Minister of Economy, who had no power in this government, finally says, and now we will adopt this law on investment promotion – look, this is absurd! You have destroyed the business environment, and the Slovenian Democratic Party will not, of course, support this law because of all that I have listed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Gantar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Chairman. Good-bye, everybody! We have before us a proposal for a law on which we share opinions in the Desus Group. We can all agree with the basic purpose of the law, with which the proposer wants to encourage and accelerate investment activity and, of course, also the existing unequal position of investors or the distinction between domestic and foreign investors. In any case, we want to encourage this investment activity and maintain Slovenia competitively in attracting investment and ensuring further economic growth. The proposal for a law follows at the same time the commitments made at the time of the consideration of the law on the strategic development area of Hoče-Slivnica, when the opinion prevailed that there was an urgent need for systemic arrangements to promote investment, and this law is regulated in some way. In order to promote investment, an investment incentive also introduces the possibility of purchasing property owned by a country or by self-government local communities under the estimated value and on the basis of a direct contract, which undoubtedly allows for shorter procedures and more flexibility. However, in the Desus Group, we point to caution and proper supervision so that abuse and irregularities do not occur. If domestic and foreign companies comply with the conditions laid down in the proposal for a law, they will be able to receive additional incentives in the form of subsidies, favourable loans, guarantees and subsidised interest rates. The funds will be provided in the budget and from other domestic and international resources, and a multiplier effect is envisaged, in view of the Ministry of the Economy's analysis of the contribution made in this way, to be reimbursed repeatedly over several years to the state budget through taxes and contributions. There will be a great deal of attention in the preparation of a government regulation setting out more detailed conditions for the granting of financial incentives. In the Desus Group, we also welcome the support of sustainable investments and support for the activation of degraded areas in Slovenia, which are over a thousand. In these areas, the country will promote investment and, as a result, will make it easier to rehabilitate it. Much more concerns are raised by the decommissioning of strategic investments, which are intended to contribute to public interest and public benefits from economic development. As a public interest, only the implementation of a strategic investment in public benefit is considered to promote economic growth, create new jobs and ensure coherent regional development. The general law of expropriation, this is the Law of Preservation of Space, does not provide for such options. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that public interest is not only an investment, but also environmental protection, water protection and nature conservation, which is the goal of sustainable spatial policy, which will sooner or later be in conflict with the economic dimension of development. We've already witnessed this in the case of Magna. We therefore believe that such a possibility of decommissioning would be more reasonable to regulate and provide for in the Law on the Regulation of Space, which we have recently adopted. However, the envisaged way of disposing of strategic investments does not convince everyone in our parliamentary group and, in particular, the proposed law for some of us is unacceptable. Therefore, our support for the bill will be uneven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In order to understand the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats on this Proposal for a Law on the Promotion of Investments, allow me to present very briefly in the beginning the programming platforms for the economic development of Slovenia prepared by the New Slovenia Economic Club. Surely this law, which we are considering, has a good purpose, there will certainly be a good debate today, and we want it in New Slovenia, about the economic development of Slovenia. The New Slovenia vision is an active individual who accepts responsibility and hopes that success will be rewarded without unnecessary stumbling and envy. The key lever is not only to crease on the ground and not to see how we are being rushed to a recent less developed nation or country, but to create changes that are open to ideas, for investments, for investing in development and for stimulating more successful and diligent people. Our proposed measures for lower taxes and greater productivity are aimed at increasing competitiveness, encouraging individuals to create their own and thus the added value of the community through their activities. We want to establish a modern, social and family policy based on facilitation, not subsidies. We are working towards fair and fair burden sharing and increasing the efficiency of state bureaucracy. The New Slovenia economic programme is based on the sound conservative foundations of Christian democracy, which enable the success of the most original solutions. It is time to sober up, it is time for economic policy, which is rooted in the centuries-old experience of a Slovenian man and which strives for a fair and balanced management of the goods he has created. We encourage citizens to take responsibility for themselves and not put it at every step in the country. We are aware of the responsibility we have at this point in history to the Slovenian people and to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. By our actions, we confirm the authenticity of the words we utter. Our compass is a socio-market economy, our vision is a fair entrepreneurship and positive evaluation of entrepreneurship, our conviction – Slovenia can do more, our commitment – without excessive tax burdens, our promise – we will limit excessive bureaucracy, our principle – budgetary balance and the New Slovenia Economic Club, business founders, visionaries and inventors are part of our society. Colleagues and colleagues, solutions known by this Investment Promotion Act are not in line with our views on the development of Slovenia. We're not for subsidies. Why not? Whatever we look at, any government, but it's happening, maybe not in general, but there are special cases where subsidies are shared with political partners. Here, we insist on this and insist on this claim, so these anomalies and subsidies need to be reduced to a minimum. But, as we have already said, we are for optimum, stimulating, if you will, taxes. The proposal lays down State aid only for certain investments. So it's only for investments that have enough value. Here we fear that the backbone of the Slovenian and European economies, which are micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, will not always be able to reach these incentives that are available. Of course, it is also about investments that will be supported, encouraged, but only those that bring enough jobs. The negative aspects of this law, seen through the optics of our economic programme, are the following: First of all, it's actually just one more or a new lex Magna marriage. Such a law is proof that we do not have a functioning business environment. We need a favourable business environment for all, not just subsidies for certain. More than subsidies, once again, tax reliefs or optimal tax or incentive tax policies are. In terms of the protection of property rights, the possibility of leniency for the exercise of the private interests of the investor is also disputed. That and many more reasons why we won't support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u67	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of 13 February. The amendments of the Left Group to Articles 7 and 24 are substantively linked, so we will treat them together. So I am putting to the debate paragraphs 7 and 24 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Please sign up. Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u68	The trailer! [[turn off microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u69	No, it's coming.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u70	Yes, it will. Okay, thanks. Well, technology is sometimes a nuisance, too. I've got plenty of time, lots of points, and I'm gonna take some time. Our amendments We propose to delete those articles which are in conflict with Article 69 of the Constitution. [[…]] Here, see, even the whole opposition, despite the diverse views on the economy, agrees with most of Desus, if I understand correctly. But let's start with Athens, where the Secretary of State started. I don't know if it's a very good point, even though I know it was well-intentioned. You know, Athens was not an excessively democratic system, even during their formal democracy. They were similar to what has been happening in Slovenia for 25 years – more pajdak-kleptocratic looting. But unlike us, there was a so-called brisket judgment or ostracism. They wrote on a piece of herd who would be expelled from the democratic process. These are elections in constitutional parliamentary democracy. Let's touch this unfortunate Magne. Unhappiness in the way it was carried out. You know, we, in this society, we're always in some sort of lost state. Now the government is bragging about it. Unlike my associate in SDS, I don't explain who I know. Just because someone is a member of the Left doesn't mean he doesn't have access to some important information about the economy. The fact is that Magna first came to the congregation, and that it wasn't even some crazy interest in Ljubljana, but then you smelled, and then you were on fire, and now you're going crazy bragging about it. Then our Fishtrek was on fire, and everyone brags about it. But what's the problem here at the starting point? Magna per year converts almost as much money as our GDP — 38 billion is some of the latest information I have. You should ask yourself, of course, coming out of the constitution: wow, Cefizel, how are we going to negotiate with someone like that? What knowledge do we have that we do not have? Where are we gonna get them? At least based on that TER 6 you could know that. But you know, because on the one hand, you have a lawyer from Mozir, on the other hand, you have three leading, global, if you want, law firms. Good morning, Slovenia! How is this law written? Perhaps even one piece would agree with Mr. Beznik. It is real-socialistic in that part that some narrow peak, which will be at the core, will decide these investments on its own. You know, investments like this have to go through parliament. In Levica, we're not really up against the way you finance the second track, like you kick it in the SMC, but we're up against the other. [[…]] But I can honestly say, the Hungarians said to me, "Yes, you know, because I have to excuse the 200 million in Parliament." Here's the thing: a little government is going to burn them up and we're going to move on. The autonomy of the municipalities mentioned by the Secretary of State of Veste is autonomous when it has autonomous money. [[…]] In a way like this, let's say you're going to have a couple of municipalities where there's going to be a flag where you want to invest, someone's going to be in a coalition, someone's not going to, and then you're going to be twisting the mayor's back. Some foreign corporation that has billions of dollars, of course, what it's like to give them two or three million for pierre, for lobbying and so on. So I think, let's stop fooling around with some serious stuff like this, it's a total rejection of the work of the National Assembly, which is what we actually see in this reference. There will be no mistake, but you know, whoever will be in the government, in the coalition, of course, the economic essence is essential to any society. Yesterday I spoke to a Slovenian banker at a reception and I said this to an economist; see, if we are looking at the development of Slovenia, I mentioned three companies, Domel, Krka, Kolektor. Why? Domel Železniki – the longtime director Mrs Jožica has now retired, if I say so myself – the place where our Luka comes from is an example of how to privatise. Employees, former employees are 100 percent owners of a successful company. And there are other cases. Yeah. And we'll have this problem on Friday. By the end of the 1980s, pollution had been known, the co-owner should have remained a local community in the privatisation process and the local community could then – all of this could go to rehabilitation from dividends. In short, those of you who were “ablasted” as the Lord of the Grief would say should have done so in the 1990s. Why not Krka? I worked alone in New Town, and Krka's almost 50 years old. Krka prizes, Krka has had 50 years of respectable positive staffing, which is the problem of this society and the country for 25 years. It is attributed to Mr. Oman: It does not matter what he is, it is important that he is ours. It's probably a little out of context. Why the Collector? Of course, as a leftist I don't like the way to privatize the Collector, I don't like that two players there from that grappa fought among themselves, Petrič-Cvetlik, but I actually like that it didn't happen in the Idrian end like in Maribor. The Idrian end is due to the mine some end of Slovenia, which has the longest technical tradition and knowledge and is provided over 260 highly educated people and more quality work and also a pattern of how you essentially disperse the activity. Why am I saying this? Because we are dealing with this issue at the wrong end, because the political caste of Slovenia in the quarter of the century was not capable of a serious debate on – as I have beaten Mr Počvalška – a strategy of smart specialisation. In human language, let's talk about what we're going to do here so we can live better. And this should be some kind of debate, not of course in the way that in that form of strategy in writing, we'll do smart, this, that, third, fifth. That's how I can cynically say who's gonna do stupid, one, two, three, five. You know, another story if we go to see science. How much have we been funding science lately? But you know, this is this connection, smart specialisation strategy, science, including the financing of basic science, education, including the role of trade unions, including the role of housing organisations, others and, of course, tax policy. We still have a tax policy that is based on excise work, because those who are already poor are even shorter, according to their own words. We would need another, a different, smart tax policy that essentially stimulates different developments and restricts excesses through tax policy. In this respect, too, this mandate is somehow free of mandate. Now, if I am to go on, as I have already said in my position, we do not have in this section of the bill any clear starting points which must come from the Constitution on all three dimensions, in particular on labour rights and also on the environmental dimension. What will be such a starting point when the state co-finances some new quality jobs? You know, say, ah, because this is going to be regulated in some of the rules, by the law – we know what it's like! We have a rich tradition of formal legal destruction in the direction of kleptocratism, when an area breaks down from the system law into three laws, and you get so many sub-legal acts, so many regulations, and then the stains in this mollusc get sucked into public money if I put it that way. That's kind of the problem. And in this context, of course, this law is written from some ideological position, as Bojan said, whose interest groups are behind, which is, to put it mildly, bad. Of course, Slovenia cannot solve all the problems of this world, but it must work as long as we are in the European Union, as long as the reduction of social differences remains in the direction of the social union and must think about itself. This law, as it is written, is somehow a law for a foreign investor who will come to Slovenia, of course with his own interests, especially the maximisation of profits, and will be facilitated to the detriment of the vast majority of us. Perhaps a politician who will then be able to hire a child, such as a pioneer, will be well - served by lobbyists, such as lawyers. It's already stopped here. Then the corporation will perform tax or other optimizations and we will get the story of Henkla Maribor again, which you put in cash millions for one year, and the second year just because you are publishing something in the Netherlands rather than in Maribor, it falls to one tenth of the previous amount. We should also learn from such stories of globalisation some story that we must take care of ourselves and that we must promote the domestic economy, including in the various mixed ownership structures. We are, of course, in Levi, that those who work also have within economic democracy the right to co-ownership, that they also have the right to co-ownership of local and regional communities. You know, then you have a minister of the department who says, "What did he say recently? -: Whoever doesn't do it, don't do it. I mean now, if you were cynical, I can say, wait, Mr. Rest, now down under, I don't know, in New Zealand, if you don't work right now, it's not. I mean, people like that, and I'm so fast on my tongue, but someone has to be a little careful about what a paw is, I can't really say another word, I'm sorry. It's kind of a big debate, the one you've been in politics for a long time than Levi, and we're basically a half tax haven. This happened during the period of the Janša government 2004-2008, when, as also in New Slovenia, their finance minister, the end of the tax on paid salaries, after which, I will say, a very restrictive method means a drop of about half a billion per year, which we have to cover in the pension register. Taxation of profits in Slovenia is much lower than in some comparable countries, effectively, then there are some reliefs, and it falls down. You know, that's the logic that everyone should be yelling at us and not yelling. The payload, you know, recently a unionist said well. If you listen to Slovenian employers, they will somehow explain to you that the difference between the net underpaid and the gross salary they from some of their own Smurfs “scan” out. No! No! The wages are the wages; the wages are the gross part; the wages are the net part; and the one who does the kicking deserves it. Pika! It's over! And employers in Slovenia are very low burden. Let us also speak honestly for once. It is true, however, that through the transition and every transition, if you do not take good care of the place, from the Sumerians forward, people who do not know how to go about responsible property, who cannot do what the Fishermen say, the fishing euro. And Mr. Tanko knows more about it than I do how to make two out of one. That's the key problem. A key problem is also, as we would say, where the south is where they have been “grabbed” and they do not even have to learn. A good example of this is the SMC in Parliament. 35 votes, and they've translated four years, except for rare exceptions to learn a lot. You can see that clearly. I mean, I'm embarrassed about this term, and I'm not embarrassed, but maybe I've been working too hard to harm my own health, because in four years nothing major has happened. We got – half a win – spatial legislation where architects overpowered everyone else. What's the matter? There was little change in the guarantee law at Dars, very little social protection was being saved in the middle, and that is more or less in four years all that this new policy has done. Excuse me? [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, and that's kind of it. [[…]] Then, say, the right-hand man likes to speak, a dual school system or, if you want, apprenticeship. Of course, not apprenticeship in the way a young man is used there. At the age of 14, we'll send him to work, and he'll be working until he's 67. Hold the wire in your hands and exercise it for 50 years — how long will it take? A dual school system with some serious mentoring! Comrade Breznik will confirm that in Austria the apprentice gets 600 euros in first year, the second year 900, the third year is 300. But then you have to think politics too – here, if I go back to my favorite topic, to local energy self-sustainment. Of course, you have funding for this at national level, you have a country level and the story is very simple, because every slightly larger Austrian village is burning some wood, according to your household and it rots. You have 10, 20 meters, each invests 30 euros, you have all the property, you have co-ownership of the municipality, co-financing with the country level and the story of the deck and are the rates lower. You don't always have to, I'll say, discover some warm water – I'll take some time for a replica. Christian democracy says New Slovenia. You know, right now the only serious Christian democracy left in this House is the Left. And New Slovenia, which I wish her well, because we need one conservative party, or I will make it myself, to go to the library of the National Assembly, and find the book by Franco Trček about association from the 1930s, and let her read it, and then we will somehow start communicating and basically talk. Of course, when you read those items when there are strategic investments, it is very clear that in Slovenia with fair money you will find it difficult, even so – here I agree with my colleague from Nova Slovenije – with instigation and envy, we will find it very difficult to cut so much money together in Slovenia so that this law will even be taken into account. But you know. We had one last item on the agenda, a partnership. Comrade Prikl was also referring to social entrepreneurship where we are. The United States has more societies than Slovenia has, and we had a strong and rich tradition of actually doing so. At the beginning of this week, I was talking a little bit about the Austrian economy, and a friend from Maribor told me, but you know, because in Austria, the economy of the deal is essentially. Basically, what we are defending in Levica is what we call democratic socialism, because otherwise it is not. You're just one person to fix capitalism a little bit, see, already serious people who are more pro-capitalistic have begun to cry out that it's not actually possible. What does that mean? Of course, an agreed economy means that in a region — in the people’s language — money circulates — that you provide people with some employment they can live in, but not that at the expense of reducing the cost of work, at the expense of — what I said about net gross wages — you somehow stigmatize people. Some worker who leaves his soul and heart there is guilty because he is too expensive, but he is not guilty of wrong politics in the National Assembly, not guilty of incompetent managers, not guilty of selling lawyers and bankers and so on, who have destroyed this society for 25 years. There are also some new political roads that will say, but I am for firefighters – I come from a family that has established firefighting in Slovenia – that young people live in a comfort zone. Please kindly, whoever says this should be destroyed by the media in a second. This society and the country do not have serious policies for under 40 years. In such a law, I would expect an article, where it will also say something about where it will also be written about the mentoring system, how someone with knowledge — including informal knowledge — will go to a retirement that he deserves, transfer these knowledge to young people, and how we will encourage and invest in such things from a common brush so that we can all live better. There's nothing here. Also because this matter was going to the wrong end because there had been no reflection for as long as possible. We will have a 30-year-old Slovenian in the middle of our next term, and I am afraid that there will be no such reflection. But I'll be very happy if I'm wrong about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Franz Duck. Mr. Franz Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I'm not an offensive kind. I can say at least at the beginning, now I have a little more time to explain something, to point out some insights that we also have in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as regards a better business environment and as regards some foreign investment strategy. The first is a matter that we can agree that Slovenia, as we have also found in the last crisis, lacks equity. This is a naked fact in finance and we need foreign investment. Foreign investments aren't just about someone bringing in some kind of capital and opening up some company. It is important for us in what rank this company is: whether it is a high-tech company, whether it is suitable for our image, on the one hand, of our country, which we declare as a green country, for an extraordinary country that has an extremely woody biomass, or whether, in the end, this investment is such that we, too, will be able to acquire some new knowledge that we do not have in Slovenia, which is needed, where we can say that this fight continues. Of course, anyone who decides to invest in a country that has a relatively good geostrategic position has several different perspectives. First time. At the moment, we need to look at what is going on in Europe, what is going on in countries where we are also strategically bound, or whether we are part of their high multinational companies. Germany has problems, especially labour problems. It is true that, and that most of their companies, at least the larger ones you know by brand – especially the automotive industry – are already coming, their internal processes are all taking place in industry 4.0. It means that they are perfectly compatible to do so-called Internet things. It means that it runs from the external logistics chain through internal mechanics, robots, humanised robots, all running lanes, along with controllers, the latest, especially Simatic or Mitsubishi, is all drawn into the chain along with internal information systems, including development, along with its supply chain. All of this takes place in some process and this process then continues in the output of this company; that is, when a customer receives a product or service at home. Why and what must Slovenia do in the first phase, if it wants to become, to have a high added value in the industry that it can partially bear? It's an investment. Slovenia, for the first time – we can repeat all the phrases we repeat on the right – an encouraging tax environment, an enabling tax environment. What is most difficult in Slovenia, what the law also says and where the law recognises, are bureaucratic obstacles in Slovenia. Perfectly liberalizing the environment, which is a result of long-standing bureaucratic thinking and, on the other hand, the result of our school system. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, since we have been producing the personnel that no one in the market has produced in the last 20 years, we can say that he did not need it at all and that the staff did not find a position on the market. One and the other policy opened abnormally some institutions in Slovenia that no one needed and employed this staff in these institutions. She was making up a whole series of laws, sub-legislative acts and spreading, we can say, the public sector indefinitely. This is also why the public sector has a major problem today. On the one hand, the institutions that the state urgently needs are mostly talking about the health system, the undernourished army that is before the collapse, the police, the other systems, particularly regulatory agencies, which are needed in certain areas. On the other hand, we have a whole range of agencies and public institutions, which no man in the world needs, which, we can say, are nonsense in this space and destroy any relatively fast process in many investments. He spoke earlier about the dual school system. I'm sorry I can't talk about this again. I was a mentor myself when I was in Austria, in many companies or at least partly a mentor, where apprentices also came into the education system. How's it going in there? So there someone signs a contract with a good company, with a good private person with a name that has an image, has a name on the market that has extraordinary knowledge, and the market allows him this knowledge. What do we have? We still want the Slovenian Ministry of Education in all areas to have a perfect monopoly. So, you sign with them some kind of contract, not with a private. And now, look, this latest implementation of this law on secondary vocational education, which speaks of a dual school system, where they signed a pilot project for some four professional groups, will now spread it. Professional groups, which, on the one hand, I think are unnecessary because many professions in the dual school system are being re-established. You also have exercises in bionics, you have exercises in mechatronics, you have exercises in nanotechnology, you have them in internal system tools in a number of companies coming into the fourth industrial revolution. So you have a whole series of new attractive professions that go into apprenticeships. Now this omen of apprenticeship to go into it is some people who are not too bright, who have worse grades and so on. Just the opposite! You come to the BMW and there you are awaited by the president of the board, who started in the BMW as an apprentice – as an apprentice, respected colleagues! Now I am talking about the next phase of the school education system, which speaks of so-called lifelong learning; that is, from the apprentice, master. The master is recognized as a high school, he can go straight to one of the colleges, and this study can be completed with a doctorate, a subdoctor study, maybe then he can go to a new study, the NBA, he can go to other chains, and so on. Austria has about 30, sometimes even 40% of the population in the dual school system. Why am I talking about what's saving us all this? So someone gets to know this profession if he doesn't answer it, if he finds out that it's not a profession for him, he can at 18, say, cancel a contract and go on another matter to find. Then it's a demographic way. Look, we have a catastrophic demographic picture. If people start working at the age of 16, getting to know their profession, they will pay part of their contributions; this must be of interest to Slovenian pensioners. We have a whole type of population that will study until the age of 30 or longer, and then find that they are not interested in it, but that they have inadequate education for things that are happening on the market. Then she'll stay and go as a structural unemployed person and be there in some numbers at the employment office. And irony, there they raise you to show them, they have CV writing classes and so on – for people who have masters, they have diplomas and so on! So, a completely flawed concept from the start! We need a dual school system to save us the demographic picture to give us the right personnel the economy needs at this point. Through the dual school system, we have to demonopolize the educational process in Slovenia because it has stopped and because it is not going to be time; and the time ahead of us, the time of the industrial revolution I am talking about for years and years, I can say that I am a pioneer in this area, a whole range of professions will die out if there is no competition in this area unless there are rapid changes in education and education, there will be no, and there will be no foreign investments. I say all of this — why? We need to adopt a special law because the supportive environment and serious investments, the highly technologically demanding investments are not for him in addition to taxes which are non-stimulating, besides bureaucratic barriers, the human resources pool is also inappropriate. [[…]] An inappropriate human resources pool. Look what America is doing, see what foreign countries are doing, what Austria is doing with structural unemployment. Why do they have 70,000 people on the stock market now? Why don't we send these people together with European funds into the re-education processes? Now! Every man who has been on the stock exchange for more than two years, his knowledge has fallen to half, must go straight to reeducation. The re-education in Germany goes to people who have their colleges completed, and they go from college back in, we can say, part of the apprenticeship or at least part of the process to go completely into another profession. It may then be found in the company and with the knowledge it has from the university, then it can also make a career and it is also a completely new business model in this process that will take place. So it's an extremely dynamic process that's growing exponentially. And Slovenia has completely stopped. Look, we're talking, Miro Cerar goes to Davos and talks about the circular economy. People of God, the circular economy can be created in 30 years when all companies are on the same platform! Not that there are companies with 40 years of age, disputed machines, which are also environmentally unacceptable, or devices, and today they will be connected. How? We have some companies that are at a high technological level that have, we can say, digitally fully internal processes, and on the other hand some companies that have a literal production at the level of another industrial revolution. In the circular economy, if we want to use maximum raw materials and everything you say, we need a company that is on the same platform. It's like we're communicating. I communicate with the most intelligent phone, a colleague from SMC interacts with Nokia 6300 in 1996 and a colleague of Trček has Iskrin Eta phone, which was awarded for design in 1985 or 1982. At what level can we communicate with each other? Right on that level, at the lowest level of the weakest article, that's Duck's phone in this case. I mean, hypothetically speaking, I'm proud of what I'm up against. When Minister Restingšek came to this function – my respect for him, what he did in the field of tourism, especially thermal tourism. At that time, I asked him as a member of the hearing, if you have the assurance of the Prime Minister that you will be the third most important minister of this government, that you will be, in addition to you, the third Minister of Finance. He said, "I think I do." He didn't. Look. He didn't. He didn't have it! And I've never criticized you. Can also Secretary of State Cantarutti says that we have supported many marriages, unanimously, Magno and everything else, but we've been missing because we've seen Here I have, look, a whole series of papers for Magno, for spatial plans. [[…]] A whole series of, we can say, constitutionally controversial acts that you've committed in this area. Maybe not you, at the Ministry of the Environment and so on; the congregation and everything. And I don't want to interfere with Magno now, but I don't want you to think about it; but the problem is that you're going to drive this along with such a law, that the UN will be accepted through one congregation to another congregation. One congregation will return to three congregations with the UN, as it did here. In the middle of the Not to mention matters that are also constitutionally controversial, and that is the problem with such a law. You with this law on foreign investment, which you are now extending to companies in Slovenia, which are very few who will be able to enter this law, so almost none. We have even smaller companies at a lower level of development, and those few better IT companies have already gone abroad, respected colleagues and colleagues during this time. And now we are working out of these dedicated first-class and also drug-grade enterprises and entrepreneurship; that is, dedicated and unconscioned people. Such a marriage can also be a reason for corrupt acts. I mean, there's some sort of order in all this, respectable colleagues and colleagues. There's some sort of order in all this, respectable colleagues and colleagues. There is a sort of order: first, business environment, human resources pool, stimulating tax environment and everything else, so that at least a few people can be gained in Slovenia. And then you can start building everything else. Now, everything else destroys and then you come with such a law and only the consecrated, and you will go. The law is so absurd that it even says that the entrepreneurship agency will even take you through all the bureaucratic obstacles. That's me, look, like a mob. You pay me something, so if we take you in, then I'll set it up in all the ministries. Excuse me, every entrepreneur in Slovenia who has hired himself is worth something to me. Every entrepreneur should have the exact same treatment. We have thousands of espions in Slovenia without social security. Why can't these people get that kind of treatment? Those are the questions. This law covers relatively very few enterprises. That's the biggest problem. That's the second problem, and that's the last problem we have. These are all my concerns, but why do the Priors, literally, want to say it, but now I'm against it. I do not object to Minister Restoration and the Secretary of State who is here with us today. I don't think we've worked very well on this mandate. I can't say. I oppose the government of Mir Cerar with complete bureaucratic thinking and maintaining the monopoly of certain entities in this country. It's not your punishment, it's the government's punishment, and you've been the scapegoat in some of these matters. You've shown a lot in your field in all such a kick under your feet as you had in your own coalition. Not in the opposition. Do you agree? This is precisely why I want us to change this and to start working in the normal order that is necessary in order to release foreign investments, especially those of high technology. Because the high added value will come because they will pay a little better wages because we will not have to argue for 625 or 650 euros. Because I am interested in a thousand, a thousand, 500 euros to get a worker behind some machines of the fourth industrial revolution, in which he will be able to work in a healthy environment. It's just the story of Slovenia! In this healthy, beautiful environment, we cannot build some real-socialist companies with Serbian labour force, what you have just started. But I respect Serbs, everything, but I want Slovenian workers, workers to have a better salary. I speak of these practices, I speak of myself, because I have experienced them, because I have created them, and I believe that we are able to do so, because all of our people, masters, engineers in a foreign environment can, look, be so successful. Only successful stories from abroad. This is where it stops. Finally, because I am too long, I will say just one more thing: The biggest problem of Slovenian transition, respected colleagues and colleagues, was the destruction, but above all, we can say the degradation of Slovenian technical intelligence. [[…]] After June 2018, if SDS wins, Slovenian technical intelligence will receive the first application in Slovenia. The one that gave the most, which is why today we have exports that have proven themselves most and have done the most for this country — from apprentice, master, technique to that last top engineer. There's this potential that's hiding, and everyone else is gonna have to join this once. When Slovenian technical intelligence comes into force, this country will also become meaningful – it will be more sane and so on. Even in law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please sign up. Let's see if this thing works now. Not again. All right, now? [[…]] Well, please, if you'll sign up. Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, again. I thought buddy Ranc would be the first to get the word. Well, let's just give it some time to finish, if we're talking. There was also talk about school systems. But you know, it's very easy to say politics, uh, these young people, professions are going to change, you're going to have to invent yourself again, up and down. If I touch the technical intelligence of all Members and Members we are invited on that day of the Engineering Chamber, but I was alone twice, no one else has come, but last year I was very sorry that I had something else abroad. [[…]] It is very often heard because I am a sociologist myself, although by basic education I am a natural-mathematic technique, direction applied mathematics. There are too many sociologists; in fact, there is little critical opinion in Slovenia. This needs to be developed, this is what we talked about in the morning about Erasmus at eight when most of us are probably still asleep. This is a problem, for example, this is some story that the Krka already mentioned leads very well because half of my classmates or classmates worked there or actually work there. The problem, of course, is that you have dismembered the issue because you were not essentially responsible enough. Here too the SMC came very quickly to taste, let's be honest, for the first half of the year you didn't know what to do, but now you have, I have to say, I will tell SDS very far away from me that SMC has almost exceeded the vehementity, by the way in which you take the last year. If this is a new policy – I don't know, then we're really done. But I also agree with you on this apprenticeship, but you know it. We are all apprentices in politics, and one term can be a slightly better or slightly worse apprentice, and some are very long in this policy, but they are still apprentices, they have not reached the status of mastery, this is Richard Sennett, rule of 10,000 hours. You used to be an apprentice for 10,000 hours, then you went to do a master's test, but then they told you you'd have to work another 30,000 hours to really become a master. I always tell my students where I teach or teach. I always tell them, look, most of you would probably be a lot better than me, but I've invested so much in this for ten thousand hours, and you're not yet. These are some of the marginal conditions set by policy. The economy, as has been the case in Slovenia in 25 years, and the dominant influence in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia will be the hint of the cost of work being too high. Politics must lay down the conditions for where we are going to move, the policy in this country, because in this pacifist plundering, this has not been done in almost 27 years if you want 30 years, and this is essentially the responsibility of a policy. And it is only then that we can adopt some appropriate legislation, and this law is only a fine case that policy has not done so in these four years, that an important resource has been given to a party that has neither had experience nor has much to do with solidarity. This is the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. This ministry is seriously not dealing with economic development or technology, and here is the problem. The problem is also that in this country we are almost unable to find another serious finance minister or minister who would actually understand this whole story and also through appropriate tax policy. In short, they're looking for people, others and different for MGRT and something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u76	Dear President, colleagues, fellow Secretary of State, Mr Cantarutti! Perhaps I will tie the debate back to the law and to some systemic regulation of matters in our Parliament, as well as the adoption of legislation that is becoming more and more applicable or more concrete. I have said in the debate before that the lack of previous governments has been the adoption of huge beech strategies and various strategic documents, which have been placed somewhere in drawers and for themselves. However, I think that we are increasingly coming into the laws that try to put these strategies in place and implement them by means of laws and translate this strategy into a system, an operational practice. Because to write some pesos, one philosophical debate or dream about a strategy in Europe and so on, if there are no laws below that would make this happen. That is how I see this law in this light, in particular eliminating one discrimination, as if it were afraid of domestic owners to invest. This law eliminates the error of past laws that have regulated this, which have only been an incentive for foreign investors. I don't know, home money, money. So here's one of those important things. It also introduces an investor-friendly environment, and I think this law has worked very well for the Ministry of Economy. I would also like to highlight something else – this environmental aspect. Here, my colleagues from Levice and I often catch up, even sometimes we support the same environmental content. And it is this law that offers these solutions in Slovenia to encourage investment in some natural resources. We have previously discussed tourism, we have somehow been able to recognize it, but there are also opportunities under this law. I will also touch on greenhouse gas emissions and emission reductions and energy consumption per unit. This law allows precisely this because it provides for the possibility to introduce a scoring system in the context of the allocation of these funds, which stimulates these so-called low-carbon investors and investments based on domestic sources. In particular, I mean here, of course, the wood and the cold which we are exporting now. This law offers an opportunity to introduce into the scoring system criteria by which investments that have a more favourable impact on the environment or on the circular economy and a contribution in a low-carbon society or a low-carbon economy will have greater potential for the allocation of these funds. And here I see this very strategicity of this law, which directs investment opportunities to those natural resources that we have in Slovenia. I think it is also true that the law specifically delimited that certain sectors in previous legislation were bound by this aid to the added value of the employee. [[…]] We know things that some activities create low added value because of their specificity or lower. This law establishes a starting point to take account of the added value in a specific sector. This, of course, also provides an opportunity for the wood industry as such, because it is in itself difficult to compare itself with an electronic activity or whatever, but this law, of course, makes it possible. So, regardless of some of the debates that have been quite critical if we look at the small print of this law and its objectives, I think it is good and that it offers, above all, opportunities for investors as well as for the country, that some of the funds in promoting investment are directed at those activities that we have in Slovenia in abundance. And here I am referring to the elimination of energy-intensive industries such as Kidrič's, and other factors based on plastic based on sources that we import and which are energy-efficient and not based on our sources. So I see here one great novelty of this marriage. Of course, what I mentioned earlier is that it also equates domestic investors and that it literally invites investors and supports those who invest in environmentally friendly technologies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. Yes, of course, who wouldn't be in favour of having some single law to promote investment, and who wouldn't be in favour of having more jobs as a result. It's all good and good here, but if I take the words of my predecessor - the strategicity of the law. He sees here the great strategicity of marriage. And I see the problem right there in the part where strategic investments begin. And if we first look at when we're talking about strategic investments. Investments are worth 40 million when it comes to processing or service activities, or 20 million when it comes to developing research activities and where at least 400 jobs are to be created in processing or service activities and 200 in development and research activities over the next 10 years. However, the problems are beginning because Article 7 of this Act also introduces the possibility of disqualification for the benefit of private investment, which I cannot agree with in any way. Indeed, the Law on the Regulation of Space provides, not least, that leniency is permissible only when it is for public benefit. You will say, yes, of course, because that is also what we have foreseen in this Article 7 of the Law, and it is true. It is beautifully written here: “It is believed that the public benefit for real estate is shown, if of course this is already provided for in the spatial act of the congregation. If not, however, if this act is not prepared with appropriate precision, then the Municipal Council for Real Estate shall adopt a decision establishing that the construction of the facility is urgently necessary and in the public interest.” So, what can we imagine? Of course, all the municipalities, especially those less developed municipalities from areas where jobs are actually lacking, the municipalities from which people are going to larger centers, and given how we already have centralised Slovenia in one way or another, of course, each congregation will strive to get as much and as quickly as possible an investor. But if the congregation does not have the proper space, the mayor usually has a majority in the municipal world, but eventually he will be able to leave individuals for the benefit of a private person, which I actually find really controversial. And I think that this article would necessarily need to be withdrawn from this law. In practice, it will look more than obvious that the investor will choose a location, and then the mayor, together with the municipal councilors, will certainly try to change this, spatial acts to suit. As a result, they will also be followed by the disenfranchisement of individuals, which is truly controversial. And yet I appeal to you Members, this is that article that you should actually put out, because it is completely inappropriate. I'm hoping for a little sanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u79	The State Secretary, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, mag. Aleš Cantarutti. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'll try to answer some dilemmas or questions raised. First of all, thank all Members, Members for your debate. First, the law, once again, is not the continuation of Lex Magna. On the contrary. We started with the preparation of this system law, as I originally said before Magna happened and we, I admit, were hunted on the left leg, as they say, or unprepared, because we haven't had everything worked out yet. In preparing this law, we have followed a number of solutions in comparable countries, especially in our neighbourhood or within the European Union. But what we learned in the so-called Lex Magna, of course, was to try to put into it now, so that we would never be forced by such ad hoc laws to solve similar situations. And here we have taken into account this possibility of decommissioning manoeuvre, so to speak. But let me explain right away. Look, it's very clear when, under what conditions, decommissioning can occur. First of all, as far as the dilemma is concerned, this should be enshrined in the Law on Spatial Planning. At the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, in the process of inter-resortment coordination, the ILO proposed to add a comment or guarantee for the systematic treatment of the decommissioning institute, according to the ZUREP, a new decommissioning purpose would be added, which could also be decommissioned for the purpose of carrying out a strategic investment. The answer from the ILO was very clear. This is argued by the argument that the ZUreP is a statutory law on the field of decommissioning, but this does not prevent any other law from providing additional dispossessing purposes, and the ZUreP explicitly refers to the fact that the dissuasive reasons are regulated by specific laws. That is why, of course, this law for the implementation of a strategic investment or purpose has been incorporated into this bill. I think it's perfectly clear here that we haven't overstepped any laws. On the contrary, this was done in cooperation with colleagues with the ILO who are responsible for the environment or the ZUREP. That's one. Secondly, when you say that an investment must be so big and so many jobs that there can be potential decommissioning. Here you are forgetting something else: that this initiative, investment, guarantee or have, must be assessed by at least 70 points, based on criteria that are very clearly set out in Article 5, are the highest evaluated and, among other things, talk about the impact of investment on the environment, the added value on the employee, the degree of technological complexity of the investment, and not least on social responsibility and so on. 14 or 15 criteria, the criteria are very clear. And an investment that does not meet them does not come into the further process of dealing with the Ministry and also not further to the Government. That's also the answer to those of you who spoke, I think it was Dr. Duck that it was the Minister's free judgment. It is not a matter of the Minister's discretion, since Article 5 very clearly sets out what investments are eligible for aid to support. And that's what I'd say about Article 7 or being abused. In this bill, too, we make it clear about degraded or those areas that are How exactly is it written? [[…]] Thus: "replacement to a devalued area with appropriate intended use". Here we are pursuing the goal that we have at the Ministry to bring together in these thousands of 81 degraded areas and to concentrate, we are focusing on investments that will come into the future. Therefore, I would like to point out that the possibility of decommissioning is very small, only for truly exceptional cases, where this public interest is strongly expressed, where the investment is so great, that there are absolutely no fears of any realisation. Here, indeed, we are merely enduring this experience that we had with the Magna case into this law. I would also like to comment on who the law is intended for. You're wrong to say very few companies. See, the law is intended for all companies, now also in Slovenia, you will not believe, Slovenia and abroad, which meet the following conditions: at least EUR 1 million in processing, 500 million in service activities, I am talking about the value of investment, the new 25 jobs, 10 in service activities and so on. This then builds on strategic investment, which, as you rightly said, requires 40 million investments and 400 jobs. Otherwise, there is already a million thresholds over which this law applies and on which the company can apply for assistance. So it is a mistake that very rarely anyone is touched by this marriage. On the contrary, we currently have about ten Slovenian companies waiting for this law at the Ministry. The second is how much resources are available at this time. This means that they have designed projects to meet all the criteria and criteria for requesting assistance under this law. However, for those who do not come into these criteria and those criteria, we will have at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology this year a total of €265.7 million of development incentives, most of which for SMEs, i.e. medium and small businesses. In fact, there is a key source of resources for which companies can run and apply for financial assistance. As far as financial incentives are concerned, I would also like to comment on New Slovenia's position that we are giving too much direct financial incentives, that is, money to say at home. Here, however, the trend is very clear, and these direct financial incentives are diminishing, as this is also the policy of the European Union that we are following. There has already been a reduction in the co-financing rate for Western Slovenia, which is more developed, from 15% last year – as of 1 January – only 10% of the eligible costs. And our ambition is to reduce this, actually, I will say, direct incentives in the form of finance, but we are looking for other ways. There are also ways to enable businesses to be taken by hand from process to procedure, what has been said, what has been written, even in this law, gives them an opportunity. Otherwise, this is one way or another arranged through a new concept of points All in one place that we have introduced this year and we are now actually introducing it as a test and it is valid for all companies: for especies, for micro, for small, for all. Here is a new concept, a new approach to address this problem. I have really described on the committee a little bit longer and wide that this law is just one piece of the whole story of measures, so to speak, with which we are really trying to make this business environment a friendly, effective both for domestic and foreign investors. These are the key concerns. It's true, there's not enough critical opinion. I agree, but here I am, with Dr. Duck, even where our society is at the moment, from the perspective of the human river who does not work, should not.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u81	We've got another interviewer. Mr. Primoz Hainz, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I have to say in this bill that one thing is somehow close to me, that the government has finally come to know, this government, which is dominant, regrettably, sometimes before the vote neoliberal, and has realized that the market economy does not work on its own, but that the state has to cut into certain areas and regulate them. This, of course, is undoubtedly good. What is somehow not close to me, and I must say this, is, of course, the question of how do you make one private interest for a common, public and, of course, a crowd of private interests of small people. Of course that's my problem. I'm not going to explain because we all know the problem. We know why it's going. Of course, I'm a little sensitive here. In fact, we have very different investments that we have had problems with, as some have said, Magna. But with Magna, I have to remind you, with Magna, the main problem was how to land the farm. That's when we accepted an exception, and we said one thing. With Magna, that was the main problem, if you remember. Yaskawa had no problem in Kočev, as far as I know. In short, the matter came, it was discussed and it came into effect. Those who do not deal in more detail with the economy did not know what was suddenly close to realization. The oven you mentioned, of course, is a special problem. And of course, there's a bunch of interests not only cultural, but also the gardeners from that block and so on, things are much more problematic there. The question raised in this law is, however, the question of the derogation of the National Assembly, as mentioned by Dr. Trček, because the Government is, in fact, deciding on these matters. And what is definitely lacking in some way is, of course, the attitude towards what I have already mentioned today, and I mention several times, namely, the question of society, which we do not in any way bring into this economic system, but this is what traditionally lived in Slovenia and we do not want to renew under any condition, but it is somehow inherent to our society and I know that it would work very quickly. What is the issue of subsidies. So that the state has to do something is a fact. But on the other hand, no one mentions and, of course, some are against subsidies, say, the SDS today very much against subsidies and the free market and how it will work, but in Revoz, even during their government, no one mentioned that there are huge subsidies. They've got them. Why? Because we have simply employed people and we continue these subsidies from government to government. There was no discussion. So I have to say that some of the discussions have encouraged me to say some things today. In any case, however, I agree with those who have discussed in the sense that these large mechanisms need to be broken down, the subsidies stopped and small workshops, preferably five, seven people, and this will then work in Slovenia and that this is the only solution for the Slovenian economy. In short, I must say that the basic principle, which is the one that bothers me the most and therefore has great problems with this law, is that one private interest, of course, prevails over a multitude of small interests and, after a short process, of course, imposes its position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u83	The Secretary of State has the floor. Aleš Cantarutti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I'm just going to comment on this for a moment, because you're right, they're basically the problem of land. Here. And we've been dealing with this problem with Magna. And just because it doesn't happen again, we put so many guards into this law, I don't think there's really a dilemma here. See, the public benefit – now we are talking about a decommissioning purpose – if the public benefit is shown, but this is shown first if the property is provided in a spatial act, so let's say a municipal spatial plan, so precisely that it can be shown in a land disaster. This means that we cannot interfere with agricultural land; we cannot interfere with land of other purpose than with any economic activity. There's a big security guard here. Yes, you can say that, and then the congregation will change the OPN. It's not working. Even in the case of Magna it didn't go so fast, you know, and of course it doesn't go through. I don't think there's any fear here. Once again, the second thing we have clearly stated in terms of criteria is this criterion of degraded land, which has priority and is an important factor in this context. I think we have written down quite a few security guards very clearly that we do not interfere with those lands which are not intended for industrial or economic activities. With regard to decisions in the National Assembly or the Government, I would say the following, since 2008, when the current law on the promotion of foreign direct investment is in force, this is the responsibility in the hands of the Government, and this is in fact also the practice of the European Union. Therefore, in this proposal of the law now before you, we have not changed that. Therefore, these investments are considered to have a final say or a decision by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. As we say, here we follow the practice of the European Union. As for incentives, allow more for a joke than indeed if I started with Xenofonte in ancient Greece, what he wrote down and thought about how to encourage the arrival of foreign investors or those who could have added something economically to the state of Athens. It reads: “It would be good and nice if we were honored with honorary seats in the theater...” So the ones who come. “And sometimes we would show them hospitality. With such honor we would rush to us not only for our benefit, but also for our reputation and for our friends." I'd agree to give them a good place in our theater, because it's good.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! As I said in the introduction, I would really like an in-depth debate on the economic development of Slovenia to develop here. We need this debate and such a debate should provide answers to questions about what Slovenia will be like in 2030. Time is running so fast that we can say 2030 will be tomorrow. I also agree with many of the issues that Mr State Secretary has said or read, which, by the way, I highly appreciate. Yes, even 2,000 years ago, smart people wrote things that hold for all mankind today, at the beginning of the third millennium. Yeah. And I sign it or I can just attach myself to it. Of course, I also agree that this law alone cannot be the only measure or law to promote domestic and foreign investment. This is actually, if I look at the government, a very cross-cutting issue. The issue of the state of the spirit in our country, too, is the issue of stable tax policy. Who's going to invest in Slovenia? Here I refer this question to domestic and foreign investors, for me virtually all are equal, equal conditions must be enjoyed by all. Who will invest if they do not know what the VAT will be tomorrow in Slovenia if they do not know what the tax will be tomorrow from the income of legal persons if they do not know what the income scale will be? And more importantly, who will invest in Slovenia if one day this national council can adopt a law, and you will immediately find out which one I think might affect retrograde and investors ten years ago? So I repeat, our compass is a socio-market economy. Social means there's a man at the forefront. And when we walk on the ground, the parliamentary group and the leadership of the party, we have a number of cases where the owners of family or other companies or directors tell us very clearly: My or our largest capital is people. Of course, there are also abuses that will not immediately be sneered at me, that I am the sole advocate of employers. That's not true. Those who do not know what the socio-market model of the economy means, but who need to read some textbooks or even see better how this model lives in practice, how it works not least in the most powerful European economy. And here we have said several times in this mandate, if the employer, if the owner of the company, at the end of the year, wants the workers, who are its largest capital, to upgrade with Christmas, with 14 wages or whatever, then the state must not be greedy here. We've done something in this area, every honor to the coalition to at least listen to a little bit of income, at least a little bit. But the country can't be greedy of things, but wow, and there the workers get what they've created in a year, one part of them participate, and now the country sits on this seat and puts a relatively large pot under this financial asset. That's not right. Look, this isn't right. We once adopted a law in the 2004-2008 mandate to regulate the participation of workers in profits, unfortunately this matter has not been or has not yet been well received, which does not mean that the law is bad, but we simply need to understand once what this socio-market model of the economy means. We also suggested, remember, a social cap, and we said a development cap. I am pleased that today some of the left political spectrum are also saying that they will do so. I am glad, it doesn't matter because New Slovenia itself cannot do this, it can be done by some majority in this national assembly, certainly not in this closing term, but, I hope, at the beginning of the next term, because it is also an investment promotion. Who will come to invest in us when they know that a good development engineer has to pay so much and so much, but that he is gross or grossly gross enough to simply make this firm's initial competitiveness. For warm water is revealed; examples are, good solutions run, established in some developed countries. Why don't you take it from me? Not everything can be copied by the principle of copy-paste, because we are some different environment, such as Germany or Austria, such as the environment in some old European democracies, but in some ways the idea can be passed on and adapted to the Slovenian situation. We claim and somehow make our commitment, we have also worked in this area, and this is also our commitment to the future, we claim and we commit ourselves that there will be no excessive tax burdens. Excess tax burdens are not good, because sometimes we call Capital a shy bird. You know, an entrepreneur goes and opens a business in a neighbouring country or in any other country today without any major problems. That's not a problem at all. Even more so, if we do not have a good business environment at home, if we do not stop this exodus immediately, especially young people, educated people, this country is not doing well. We see for ourselves, the European Commission also notes that we are the fastest growing society in Europe, which also represents an extremely large fiscal challenge or fiscal risk. Today you have agencies that operate very strongly in Slovenia and encourage and invite people to come to Austria. I get — I don't know where they found me — on the e-mail virtually every month after two or three such invitations. The agencies are calling. They're offering. Apparently, we Slovenians are good in the eyes of our northern neighbours and others. It's obvious. I believe our graduates have good and high knowledge, and such a frame of reference is sought. Why don't we hire them at home? It is true that we still have problems with public finances, and the cost of interest on state loans is still too high. I commend all those who have managed to reduce this cost in any way, but nevertheless, close to one billion 800 million, about, for interest each year is a fantastic cost and a fantastic developmental bar of this country. It just can't be saved overnight. That'll keep us warm, unfortunately, for a while longer. Because we've either made mistakes or, more specifically, bastards, of course, I mean bank holes. Slovenian bureaucracy is too severe. Who will invest in Slovenia if, as entrepreneurs tell us, you need five years to get a building permit to expand a hall, don't God, for some farm land? And I am the first of those – and New Slovenia know how she acted about Magna – we are the first to say that agricultural land needs to be protected because it is the basic resource for food production. Last but not least, we can't eat our shares, we can't eat our money, and neither can our craftsmen. But I don't know why, probably, this is my diagnosis, probably this state apparatus got so rich that it's necessary to have a document or a question, solve some process running through too many doors, then pass from one office to another, to another, and so on. Of course, it takes five years to get, as I said, a building permit. Yeah, something happened in this area so I wouldn't be critical. I don't want to be critical just like that, all right? Something's happened, but you'd expect more. If these bureaucratic obstacles were reduced, this would already be a big signal to investors, domestics and, above all, foreigners, that it is worth coming to Slovenia. Because whoever wants to invest, he wants to invest today and tomorrow, he wants this investment to come back. That's all logic, and it's very simple. Many times I feel that employers are just as simple as that of a social evil. When we want some small solutions for them when we want, but in this area we really haven't done anything, in the field of labour law. [[…]] It's a shame if the secretary isn't here right now, I'd be talking for a while. Employers simply do not hope to hire new people because this is too much of a risk. We wanted these risks with our marriage solutions and we still want them, it is not over, we have the Pension and Disability Insurance Act in the parliamentary procedure. We'd go here at least a little bit towards the employers, so that it wouldn't actually happen that there would be an accident in the construction site, that it would be more plastic, that the employer did everything and everything he had to do to ensure that this worker was wearing protective clothing, that he put a helmet on his head, gloves, and so on, that he was educated in the field of protection at work, but there was an accident. But then it can also happen that this employer, this independent entrepreneur, has lost all of the assets that he's created for 30, 40 years. Is that right? It's not right. And it is logical that something has to be done here by the legislator, so that perhaps insurance companies can come across with their insurance products and insure such disasters. It's not today because it's too risky. Yeah, there's too much risk for insurance companies, but it's not for the employer? We should have more of that feeling here. And once again, because I know we're going to talk about this a lot more, it's not about lowering some safety standards in the workplace. No, we're against lowering standards. Let's keep them high. But if there's an accident and the employer's absolutely not guilty, I repeat, he's done everything, then we can't hang everything on him. If we put a 100, 150 grand ticket in his pocket, I don't know if anyone has one in their pocket to pay for it. We expected that this Investment Promotion Act might be less based on subsidies. It is not the only measure, yes, there are others, there are guarantees, there are loans, there are subsidised interest rates and so on. But here in subsidies, hand to heart, those who may have been observing this for a long time will quickly find an example that after some sympathy then these subsidies are divided, despite strict rules, strict criteria and so on. But look, in the end, there's a man who says, "You get it." Or, "You don't get it." Or, "You're out." Have you ever heard of a case where someone has fallen out, as they say on a symbolic level, because of a wrong comma or a dot? Yeah, that's what's going on. Yeah, well, the criteria have to be, like, exactly when there are some values and so on, but that's a bad feeling. He won, but he didn't win. This may not have so many capable coworkers who could write a role for this investment or for the grant quality, but it will fail, otherwise it can do fantastic products for some car multinational, has satisfied workers and so on, but it just falls out. I must say, there's a bad will here. It would be better if we had, I don't know, 500 million for some subsidies to reduce all tax burdens by 500 million. What's the problem here? For everything. What's the problem here? And we also proposed a tax relief at the level of the annual risk threshold for a single-member household at the income tax rate, because it does not seem morally necessary for the country to tax the income it needs to spend the year. To survive. But they said the accountants at the Ministry of Finance, huh, that's not going to work, that's going to be $490 million. We can't look at accounting, we have to look at development. Why would you take this 490 million? Why don't we just leave it with people? It is also our political agenda, our political vision that everyone is free even with the money he deserves and deserves as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u87	Anybody else want to discuss this? Yes, please report. Mrs. Andrej Potočnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u88	President, thank you for your word. I won't be too long because we've been talking about this subject for quite some time, even though I feel like we're talking about everything else today, just this law that we don't have on the table. My colleague Jože, before me, whom I also very much appreciate and very much participate in the Committee on the Economy, mentioned that our staff have good and high knowledge and why we should not hire them at home rather than go abroad. Therefore, with this bill we want to hire them at home because the strategic investment defined in this law says that the investor has to hire 400 new workers or 200 workers if we are talking about development and research activities. I will personally support this law because I wish such personnel would remain at home. Surely this law is not enough to keep the staff at home now, but it is a fraction of it. There was a lot of talk about Magna, and once there was even a comment that what was meant for Magna would be better given to workers as social support. Really?Oh, my God! We want to give social support to workers or we want to give them jobs so they can earn their own bread and milk. Then there was a comment that it felt bad because someone got on the call and someone didn't get on the call. Regrettably, it's normal to place boundaries and criteria somewhere, so someone gets a grant and someone doesn't get one. We can't do a little bit over or maybe even better – now that Joseph has left the hall – what to do a little bit after feeling, an official at the ministry, I like this one, we're going to give it a subsidy, and this one's not so good at heart, and this one won't get a subsidy. Well, there's a line to be drawn somewhere. There was a saying that, in fact, our Slovenian economy was not doing well. Now, today I have an article in my hand from Finance or yesterday, 13. 2. where it is said that we have a surplus of the current account, the real difference between exports and imports is 2.81 billion euros, which is the most so far. And here it is commented, Mr Bojan Ivanc of the GZS comments that this is the greatest surplus on the Netherlands and Germany. I think that's very encouraging. What does he continue to comment on? It says that surpluses are usually a sign of great competitiveness in the economy, and it also shows that with the price and quality of products and services, we are competitive compared to our main competitors in the EU. In the coming quarter of Slovenia we expect an increase in investment and private spending, which can also lead to an increase in imports of goods, and this can lead to a reduction in surplus. According to our assessment, this year between four and five percent of GDP, this still means that as an entire economy we are reducing external debt or paying off net external debt. From the point of view of the stability of the financial system and the country's credibility, such a surplus in the balance of payments is desirable, and we must strive to preserve it in the future. I think that the data that some people provide is not so bad and, of course, I absolutely reject it. I believe and I know that the government of Dr. Mir Cerar has been working and will continue to work, work well, and that we have encouraging data on the economic side by the end of the term of office. We will certainly try to keep this data at this level with domestic and foreign investments that are still under way. However, I would like to inform my colleague Franz Breznik, who has given a very long speech, that this law speaks of domestic and foreign people, not only foreign investors, so as to ask him to read the law more specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u89	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking the 10th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, this is, on the other hand, a proposal for an additional measure to remedy the consequences of the injury caused by the redistribution of the subscribers' population within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Marjan Podgorska.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u90	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Natural traps have always been present in the forests and are an integral part of the natural cycle, which must also be taken into account in the management. The Slovenian forestry sector has developed successful approaches based on sustainable and co-natural principles precisely to minimise the risk of forest management brought by natural catch. The success of such an approach is also recognised by forestry experts in Europe as well as wider. Nevertheless, natural captures in Slovenian forests have caused much damage in recent years, the consequences of the year 2014 were 20 times higher than those of the 1980s, which has long been considered the biggest catch in Slovenia. Last year's windshield has also been twice the size of windshields in recent decades, similar to the effects of overcrowding since forest rehabilitation has already exceeded 6 million cubic metres of wood in the last three years. Such an extent of affected forests in the area of Slovenia has not been recorded in the last 100 years, and we are certainly facing very different environmental conditions today, which have occurred in an extremely short time. Such changes also require different measures in forest management and, in particular, a rapid response with a view to reducing damage and restoring affected forests. As far as legislation is concerned, the forest management regime provides an effective response to damage by natural means, but measures are primarily aimed at ensuring effective recovery of affected forests, allowing the forest owner to have as little cost as possible for the reforestation itself and to ensure restoration as soon as possible. However, when we talk about the exceptional magnitudes of the consequences of natural forests that we have witnessed in recent years, we must be aware that the forest owners are also experiencing this extreme damage. Their forest holdings are affected on a substantially larger surface, on a substantially larger scale than in the previous captures, with particularly damage caused by the overcrowding in the forests as a rule due to extreme weather conditions or damage caused by previous captures. This is precisely why the bill we are considering today provides for additional measures to remedy the effects of direct damage caused by the overcrowding of the population of subscribers, as well as damage to the captures that may cause overcrowding. The purpose of the law is to enable owners to rehabilitate their forests even faster, which is a condition for restoring biodiversity in forests, and to reduce, at least to a lesser extent, their costs of rehabilitation. It should be stressed, however, that the measures themselves to restore forests, in particular the provision of forest tree orchards and the co-financing of part costs in the recovery, are already being successfully implemented. With the proposed Act on additional measures to remedy the consequences of the overcrowding of the population of subscribers, we provide: exemptions for the determination of sanitary cuts; reduced deadlines for the issuance of consents, permits and other acts of public authorities and holders of public authority; exemptions for obtaining agreement on the construction of forest roads; reimbursement of costs for the closure of public and municipal roads for the execution of protective works due to the overcrowding of the population of subscribers; special arrangements for the reduction or write-off of contributions to pension and disability insurance for farmers under the Law on the conditions under which farmers are subject to reduced or cancelled contributions are considered paid. We believe that these additional measures will contribute to an even more effective recovery and thus faster restoration of forests that benefit all of us. Therefore, we also propose that the third reading of this law be carried out at this meeting, which is possible under Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u91	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. Hello, everyone in the hall! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the draft law at its 28th meeting, on 1 February 2018. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which made some specific comments to the article of the bill; a large part of these were taken into account in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, which were also adopted by the Committee. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supports the proposal for a law. The amendment was tabled by the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the coalition parliamentary group. The Director of the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy of Slovenia participated in the discussion, which presented some of the contents for which the Chamber estimates that they should be supplemented in the draft law. Thus, the Chamber proposes that the Institute of Forests assess, in addition to the damage caused by the overcrowding of the yards, the damage caused by the natural disaster of December 2017 to forest owners. Furthermore, the exemption from the payment of the income referred to in Article 26(3) of the Income Act (ZDoh-2), the reduction or write-off of contributions to pension and disability insurance for farmers under the Law on the conditions under which reduced or cancelled contributions are deemed to have been paid. Additional reimbursement of excise duty on the purchase of fuel for forestry machinery. The Chamber also proposes that the minimum requirement for beneficiaries that may apply the individual measure provided for in this Act, which, as a threshold, provides for the necessary restoration of the forest to more than 20% of the forest ownership of each forest owner, should be reduced to 10% of the forest ownership of each forest owner. The Chamber also considers that the State authorities and the holders of public powers must issue the consents, licences and other acts necessary for the implementation of the measures to remedy the consequences of the damage within seven days of the receipt of the application. It is also proposed that the insurer may apply to the competent tax authority for write-off or reduction of contributions within two years of the decision on sanitary cuts for damage and that the means for additional measures to remedy the consequences of damage in addition to the funds from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia shall also be provided from the solidarity fund of the European Union. The representatives of the Union of Forest Owners of Slovenia and the Union of Farmers of Slovenia also agreed with these proposals of the Chamber. The Director of the Slovenian Institute for Forests also participated in the debate, which supports the proposal for a law by expecting the institution to address other issues that will and will continue to arise as a result of climate change in the forests in the future. In the debate, the members of the committee supported the bill as it was intended to help to remedy the damage in the forests as a result of the underprivileged. However, most members agreed with the warnings that the problem of natural disasters in agriculture and forestry should be addressed systematically, especially as more similar disasters are expected in the future due to the consequences of climate change. It has also been pointed out that in recent years the Committee has repeatedly addressed the problem of dealing with the consequences of natural disasters, which range from 2015 onwards. A number of conclusions were adopted with a view to the early recovery of forest damage. An amendment to the Forest Act was also adopted to ensure that sanitation is implemented as quickly as possible. In 2014, the Act was adopted to remedy the effects of greed between 30 and 30. 1st and 10th. 2. In the opinion of some, however, it could also be used for intervention measures that are now proposed in the proposed amendment to the law or that could be amended by a statutory law to remedy the consequences of natural disasters, rather than re-adopt a specific law to remedy damage caused by subscribers. Some members of the Committee agreed with the opinion of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber in order to address the damage caused by this proposal in December 2017. After the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups, but did not adopt amendments to the New Slovenia and SDS parliamentary groups. Some amendments have not been defined because they have become irrelevant. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u93	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the left-wing group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In February 2018, we are adopting the Act on additional measures to remedy the consequences of the overcrowding of the population of subscribers. We can read in the explanation of the law: “The fundamental objective of the law is to ensure timely and effective implementation of sanitary sections and preventive protection works in forests.” Now, let us look at the chronology of a natural disaster called the reproducing of the underlings. The glands, thanks to which there was an attack on the underpasses, we had in 2014. As early as 2015, the number of basements was multiplied. We had our first emergency meeting of the National Assembly Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food on the subject of the sub-collects in September 2015. By then, due to the attack by the underlings, the Institute of Forests had already registered nearly 850,000 cubic metres with the underlings of the attacked igraves, and then we had at least four more meetings of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, at which the problem of the underlings had been raised loudly and we appealed to the Ministry to do something. Well, we are now going towards the end of February 2018, and the government is proposing a law to ensure timely and effective implementation of sanitary sections. That would be really funny if it wasn't real, but it's particularly tragic and absurd. Otherwise, it must be acknowledged that the law that we are considering today is not the first law to be adopted for the sake of the spouses and that the adoption of this law would not even be necessary if it were not for the political prestige and merit that the Government wishes by adopting this law. This is no longer unusual in this national assembly, especially in the field of agriculture, and it seems that for every natural disaster we will adopt a special law. We have already adopted a new Law on Forests, already in 2014, on measures to remedy the consequences of the greed between January 30th and February 10th 2014, which, as with the Law-Legal Service of the National Assembly, could also apply to the intervention measures now proposed here. As proposed by the Legislative and Legal Service, we could also amend the roof law on the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters, but no, we are again adopting a very special new law to remedy the consequences of natural disasters, i.e. overcrowding of subscribers. And it was four years after the acorn, which was the reason for such a multiplication at all, and three years after the first reenactment, which had already been known to break all previous records. Of course, it's ridiculous. But only until we remember that we're in pre-election time and that we're obviously going to be competing in who's going to make a better intervention law to save the country. And, but it is not nice that the elections are just the end of spring, that heroes will probably be able to save Slovenian farmers again because of the consequences of perhaps even spring frost, probably even sooner than it will be known who will be entitled to state aid due to the consequences of last winter's cold. But let me get back to the basements. For a long time, it seemed that this government's strategy in dealing with its supporters was to starve its mates. In short, let them eat all the spruce and then let them die of hunger. Well, now that it seems that we are almost at the goal with this strategy, the government is proposing a law on additional measures to address the consequences of the damage caused by the overcrowding of the population of subscribers. Tragic and absurd. The law comes at least three years late, but perhaps by adopting this law we will be able to maintain at least another spruce in this country. The law was supposed to speed up the preventive work in the woods. It also provides tax reliefs for farmers most affected by the proliferation of tents. Above all, we will support the proposal of the law in Levica, regardless of the delay it is coming from, and irrespective of the deviation from systemic solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u95	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u96	Your Honor! In this mandate, the National Assembly and the competent Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food have repeatedly addressed the problem of the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters, which date back to 2014, and which have caused considerable damage to the forests, first of all due to the agglomeration, resulting in overcrowding. At the end of last year, however, the hurricane wind ravaged the forests and caused a windstorm. Injury in the forests caused by windstorms is the largest in Kočevska, Notranjska and Koroška. The heavily damaged areas of the forests are also located in Lake and Solčavska and in the Upper Savinja Valley and in the Drava Valley. There have also been injuries in some other parts of Slovenia. According to the latest estimates from 18. 1. 2018 is a total of nearly 2.2 million cubic metres of wood damaged. According to some expert estimates, owners will not be able to expect adequate income from forest revenues for almost 30 years due to the damage caused by the damage, so last year the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, in cooperation with the Association of Associations of Owners of Private Forests, launched an initiative to draft a law on measures to remedy the consequences of the overcrowding of the population of subscribers and also drafted the text of the intervention law, which was then recast and finalised by the competent department. The aim of the law is to ensure that damaged and attacked forests are restored as soon as possible. The new law will define the concept of a natural disaster in the forest, which will require 400 thousand cubic metres of damaged wood. It wants to ensure and promote timely and effective implementation of sanitary sections and preventive protections for the repression and prevention of the spread of sub-divisions in forests and to simplify certain procedures. Exceptions shall be introduced for obtaining agreement on the construction of forest roads, shortening the time limits for obtaining opinions and agreement on the construction of forest roads, and reimbursement of costs for the closure of state or municipal roads shall also be provided. This law also proposes derogations from the procedure for the reduction or write-off of contributions to pension and disability insurance for farmers under law under conditions under which reduced or cancelled contributions are deemed to have been paid in order to enable farmers who have suffered damage to their spouses to reduce or write off contributions to pension and disability insurance. In the SMC Group, we are aware that the proposed law constitutes a derogation from the system regime, as the system law governing natural disasters does not recognise the overcrowding of the population as natural disasters, so there is no legal basis at this time for the granting of the necessary aid from the State budget to affected forest owners who have suffered a great deal of damage due to the value of forests and the loss of income, nor is it possible to use European funds from the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme. In addition, the law with the amendments adopted will also address other issues that took place last December, i.e. windfall, and will continue to appear as a result of climate change in forests in the future. Thus, the law will also apply to the latter, and to the future, to natural conditions, such as snow, wind, acorn, flood, snow, or earth’s beach, and to other natural phenomena that cause damage or physical weakness to trees in the forest. We are aware that this will create an additional system for determining and regulating the consequences of natural disasters in forests. Nevertheless, we have decided that, due to the dimensions of the damage, the underlying reasons, and probably also, we can support the self-critical, late response of the Government or the competent department, to reduce the damage or to help the injured and to support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u97	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u98	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! On 1 February of this year, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the proposal for a law on additional measures to remedy the consequences of the overcrowding of the population of subscribers submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. However, it occurred in the last days of January and in the first days of February 2014. This is an indication of some update of the government's operation and, last but not least, of the Ministry itself. In the meantime, a huge meeting of the Committee on Agriculture took place to address this issue with a faster recovery following this 2014 acorn. Also now the law was written by the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, almost a year ago and the law, instead of a quick procedure, remained in the cabinet drawers. Today, the proposaler wants to present himself as the great solver of the problem of the underprivileged just before the elections. In short, it is too late and, as the Legislative and Legal Service warns, it is a non-systemic approach. Indeed, throughout the last term of the government, we have heard that all laws must be resolved systematically. This government rejects the opposition's law by arguing that they are non-systemic and that it will itself prepare systemic solutions, and then we get on the table this proposal, which is of course non-systemic. Otherwise, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we agree that additional measures are needed to rehabilitate the Slovenian forests, which are caused by the acorns and the underdogs. We've been pointing that out for three years. We agree that it wants to ensure and promote timely and effective implementation of sanitary sections and preventive protections for the repression and prevention of the spread of sub-divisions in forests, to simplify certain procedures and to ensure the conservation and enhancement of bio-equity in forests. On the basis of the above, the question is whether to approach that issue in a timely, systematic or sufficiently professional manner. We are in the Slovenian Democratic Party with amendments, of course we also thank the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, and we also wish to include the last windshield from the end of 2017. However, even these proposals were not adopted at the committee meeting, amendments from the opposition, which would solve the windshield and address this natural disaster more systematically. So far, about 4.2 million cubic feet [4.2 million cu m] of wood have been cut down because of their basements. If we include other adverse weather conditions in recent years, disasters after rain, floods, drought and last windfalls, the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture is not aware of the breadth of the problem or what it promises Slovenian forests. The Ministry spends a lot of time with the company Slovenian National Forests, where we have been listening for more time to the fact that wood is our great natural wealth. Due to the slow, inadequate action of the Ministry in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we fear that government strategies on what we will be doing in 2030 by 2050 will not have the weight of forests as they are now, because we will mostly export wood, and partly lose because of the wrong strategies of the approach to solving and maintaining this biological natural value. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, despite all the perceived shortcomings of the law, we will not object, since in this case the principle applies better late than never.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u99	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u100	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague, welcome to all! Natural disasters in recent years are increasingly devastating throughout our country. And with their consequences, we face and stab many years later. One such case is the 2014 gland, which, in combination with subsequent favourable weather conditions, resulted in an excessive reproduction of the population of subscribers. December's windshield has once again destroyed the vast amount of forests, especially the igures, which means that we will surely be meeting again this year if the damaged trees are not removed in time. The purpose of this Act is therefore to allow for timely and effective implementation of sanitary sections and preventive protection works in forests. The bill is also intended to provide assistance to forest owners as it is intended to allow farmers who have suffered damage, inter alia, to reduce or write off contributions to pension and disability insurance. The proposal for a law should also shorten the deadlines for the issue of consents and authorisations from state authorities and holders of public powers. We probably all agree that natural disasters in the future in the light of climate change will become more and more frequent. We should therefore prepare ourselves as a country for this in advance, as we are once again finding that the removal of the consequences of natural disasters is not systematically well regulated and therefore we must adopt non-systemic laws, such as those of today. In the Desus Group, we are pleased that the bill was created on the initiative of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, the Association of Associations of Owners of Private Forests in cooperation with the State Institute for Forests and the competent Ministry. Therefore, we hope that forest owners, whether this country or private owners, will remove damaged trees more quickly this year and that the subscriber will not have the opportunity for development this year as he has had in the last three years. Members and Members of the Desus Group will be supported by the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u101	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u102	Your Honor, hello! The law we deal with is coming, unfortunately, too late. It's too late. In Novi Slovenija, we have been pointing out the danger of overcrowding in the basements from the time that the stomach creaked and broke the trees in Slovenia. This was in winter, February 2014. The first emergency meeting of the Committee on Agriculture was requested at the end of 2014, as soon as the brown foxes began to show up and it was clear that the development and multiplication of the root cellars after the acorns became a very serious problem for us, when it was clear that the large amount of damaged wood is after the acorn and will be a difficult recovery or removal of wood from the forests. At that time we talked about about about about 9 million cubic meters of wood in private and state forests. Today the government is talking about approximately 4.5 million cubic metres of cut wood in 2015 and 2016. However, the data for 2017 were not provided by the Ministry in the draft law. Clearly, then, many of this timber was left in the woods. Experts have warned and continue to point out that one of the main causes of a large number of subscribers is the fact that forest owners have not cleaned up the damaged eel quickly enough. In Novi Slovenija, we wanted to draw attention to the problems facing forest owners, which are approximately 460 000 in Slovenia. We have also proposed a number of measures and incentives by which the Ministry of Agriculture could also help private forest owners with faster and more efficient rehabilitation, and unfortunately we have not been heard here. We have suggested, for example, that the amount of fuel consumed in harvesting this wood should be raised as a reimbursement of excise duty for forest owners. At the same time, a lower cadastral income would be accounted for for by forest owners who have damaged forests after the agglomeration, and consequently damage due to the excessive development of basements. However, for those with the greatest harm, we have proposed a 25-year exemption. According to data from the Slovenian Institute for Forests, the spread of ground-dwellers has been detected both in unscanned compositions and after the appetite in the restored compositions, as we have repeatedly warned in Novi Slovenija that action was not fast enough. We could look at how these things are handled in neighbouring countries, where they have also been faced with pharynx and excessive replication. We requested another urgent meeting in 2016, unfortunately again without listening to the Ministry of Agriculture or the Government. We have tabled a number of amendments to this bill for consideration on the Committee, prepared by the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, and the Ministry has not been able to take account of the forest owners who have suffered damage. These people are the most lost because of the current condition when the skull has already multiplied and the price of wood has already been halved. Who benefits from this? Otherwise, Members of New Slovenia will support this law, although it is too late.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u103	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u104	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues in this crowd! The law before us today is the result of a major problem, a largely broader dimension, which we call global warming and a long-standing, multi-year decline in sustainable management of resources and life beyond the capabilities and opportunities that this planet offers to all who live on it. It should therefore be pointed out that even if hybrid laws between intervention and systemic laws in the future are not sufficient to solve the essential problem, and this is that the climate change environment in which we live has changed significantly and that we can, in fact, address the problems of forest owners and the challenges they face, for example, the proliferation of subscribers, only respond with a completely recast and boldly worded radical environmental policy and that we are essentially addressing the issue of our own resource use and therefore redefine also the objectives and orientations that we as a country have in the area of environmental protection and sustainable development. The fact is that centuries-old floods, heat waves, acorns and winds now appear more generally than exceptionally. And one of the options we have is to redefine each year that someone should intervene earlier, despite the fact that the measure we have today is not the first. At the same time, we do not ask how and in what way we contribute to global warming, which is the real reason for us today to face the proliferation of subscribers. In this respect, proposals brought to the table to improve this law and to help forest owners should also be critically assessed. One of the latter is the reduction of excise duties on fuel fuels, and, of course, increased consumption of fuel fuels is one of the key stakeholders and co-builders of global warming conditions, which is a fundamental reason for us today to adopt a law that is something between systemic and interventional. If I focus on the law itself. Of course, even if the delay of any day comes at the initiative of those who will benefit it most in order to do the necessary remedial work and to address not only the issue of the economic damage that has arisen and will arise due to the multiplication of the subscriber, but primarily to ensure the rehabilitation of forests, to ensure that there will not be an increased risk of habitat and that the living space, which is not only economic and social, is preserved, upgraded and, above all, protected. Therefore, aid to forest owners who have already contributed significantly to recovery, while at the same time many could do more to eliminate a good part of bureaucratic obstacles by allowing them access to European funds and helping them with solidarity, something that is really impossible to support. Social Democrats will be the law that goes to those who live and support from what the forest offers. At the same time, we point out that this law cannot be and is not an interventional nature, only by saying that it needs to be saved and helped, but is a real response to the need for this law elsewhere, and this is in a radical change in environmental policy and in a substantial reduction in energy absorption not only by our country but by societies as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u105	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the Review of the amendments tabled. 13 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Chairman. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have prepared an amendment to improve or somehow help those forest owners who have actually suffered damage by three additional measures. These include: tax exemption under the Income Act for plots for forest land where there was actual damage; further exemption for land outside the forest that was damaged by the rehabilitation because of the rehabilitation of forests; further, the proposal of our amendment for additional reimbursement of excise duty for the purchase of propulsion fuels, because we know that there will be much more work and therefore much more cost for propulsion fuel in the rehabilitation of forests. And irrespective of the provisions governing the property tax, the tax for 2018 and 2019 on the basis of a decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall be written off for the affected forests. Why are we suggesting this? Because in fact, the question is basically whether all these natural disasters that occur in agriculture are solved under the basic law. Furthermore, the question of what is actually a natural disaster in agriculture is also being asked. For certain weather inconveniences, as the weather shows, are repeated from year to year. It is the power to predict. Each year, more precipitation falls, it can be predicted that, I don't know, floods, with certain measures, this damage, with the right measures, can be mitigated by timely approaches. That's exactly the way it is with the cold. The cold is happening almost every year and with certain right measures, this weather discomfort, which causes damage to agriculture, can also be a favorite. But we do have natural disasters that we can't influence. This is a windshield, a snowfall and, of course, in fact, this damage differs substantially from those that could be softened or reduced to a large extent by proper measures. And as a result, since windshield and acorns cannot be prevented from taking the right action without taking the right approach, it is indeed the true meaning of a natural disaster that is not affected either by prevention or by previous measures. So this amendment follows that, in fact, these victims, of course, as opposed to the type of damage that cannot be somehow mitigated, we help them more than the others who might be affected by the subsidies and the restrictions on taxes in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u107	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mag. Marjan Podgoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u108	Thank you, Chairman. The government has complemented in the work relating to the last 4th indent, which is the content of the supplement, does not support, because if I go in line, by indent, tax exemption for the cadastral income on plots where the forest is being renovated is already possible. Point 18 of the first paragraph of Article 73 of the Income Act provides for an exemption for the cadastral income of land which are affluent for a period of 30 years following the leasing. The rules on forests do not define the concept of afforestation, but this term has been used unchanged for tax purposes for many years as a synonym for the new planting of the forest, both in the case of new planting on until then on agricultural land and in the case of new plantings due to the reforestation of the forest after the holosec, for example for reasons of sanitation. In accordance with the provision, therefore, it is now possible to apply the exemption of income on condition that the whole area of the affected parcel or part of the whole area was subjected to the reforestation of the forest as well. The exemption is linked to the fact that the new planting of trees on the holoscope or new plantings on the farm area to the owner or user of the forest makes it possible to obtain income from forest management for a period when economic use is again possible. The Income Act 2 provides that after a period of 30 years after the new planting. It is also reasonable to recognise the exemption on surfaces with golosec, for which the decision of the Forestry Office imposes natural reforestation, since in such cases it is also impossible to obtain income for a certain period. This is in relation to the first of the 4 proposed indents. On the other hand, it would explain that owners are already exempt from income payments for forestry and climate services and forest conservation, which also includes resources to co-finance long-term investments in forest restoration. Pursuant to the provisions of Article 26 of the Income Act, income payments for forestry and climate services and conservation of forests, including co-financing of long-term investments in the restoration of forests, forests with an environmental component, are now exempt, in relation to the seventh indent of Article 26 of ZDoh-2, and payments for agricultural policy actions resulting from long-term investments in the basic forestry activity in conjunction with Article 26(3) of the ZDoh-2. Therefore, in the case of reforestation on the single surface, new plantings on the single surface are already exempt from income on the basis of the provisions in force, as they can be regarded as payments made in respect of long-term investments. With regard to the third indent, as regards excise duty, I would like to explain the following. The level of excise duty has already been regulated by the Regulation supplementing the Regulation on the reimbursement of excise duty on energy products used for agricultural and forestry machinery. The Ministry of Finance has promised to supplement the Rules and 30. 1. I think that the Regulation on supplementing the Regulation on the way in which excise duty is refunded on energy products used for agricultural and forestry machinery has been adopted and, of course, the increased quantity recognised at 60 litres per hectare of forest, as soon as possible, I think, one of the interlocutors mentioned that there is a problem, this problem is not. It's increased. And in this regard, of course, the Official Journal was number 8/2018, on 9. 2. 2018 published that Regulation on the way in which excise duty is recovered for energy products used for agricultural and forestry machinery. With regard to the last indent, in which the applicants propose that, irrespective of the provisions of the law governing the property tax, the tax for 2018 and 2019 should be registered for the affected forests on the basis of a decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Somehow we don't understand what it means. The real estate tax law is not in force. The Constitutional Court’s judgment annulled its implementation and, therefore, such a provision in the law would make no sense. On the basis of the above, it is assessed that the amendment, as proposed, is neither necessary nor appropriate, since it would double the content of other laws already governing this area in the proposed or desired manner as well as those which propose. On this occasion, perhaps some have explained the preceding questions. If I may, the chairman? With regard to reactions, it would be necessary to clarify the quantities first at the level of the accident, as there are several uncertainties. The stomach caused about 9 million cubic metres of damage in the forests, while the basements, after completion for 2017, accounted for about 6 million; the windshield, according to data quite definitive; and the windshield, at the beginning of December 2017, 2.2 million cubic metres. Several mentions were made of the situation in other countries and how Slovenia faced it. The Ministry of Agriculture, in cooperation with the professional institutions, carried out an international comparative analysis. This is one of the first to be found in this area, covering five surrounding countries, and the results of the analysis show that we are comparable to those at the top of those who have been dealing with sub-bases in terms of efficiency, and we also have a fairly comparable regulatory regime. The analysis, which is longer, is also available on the Ministry's websites, I think also the Forestry Institute. With regard to the response to gastric damage itself, it should be said that it was 7. 3. 2014 Act on measures to remedy the effects of the acorn between 30 January and 10 February 2014. So, the government reacted quickly to the pharynx itself, which, of course, today we know, or that is how it is expertly assessed, to a large extent increased the size of the attack by the underlings. With regard to the defence system itself, the current legislation, as I have already said in the presentation, from the perspective of the organisation of the Institute for Forests and Activities, which is necessary for faster harvesting of wood, is quite appropriate and we have only two minor additions in this law, which otherwise help, but that would now substantially change the course would be excessive. However, there are some measures in this law that allow European funds to be used more easily. The concept of natural disaster is also defined for this set of measures, which enables us to access the resources of European funds, which have so far been limited only to areas with acorn. This law will also bring harm to those who have been caused by their mate and also by natural disasters or by those that could cause the multiplication of their maters. It's 90 species, it's kind of rated. So it's a fairly wide system that will allow the consequences of this law or in a smaller part also to prevent a rather wide range of natural disasters. The importance of this in detail is also mentioned that it will allow for a much faster issuance of documents. In this respect, the Ministry is competent, we are a little proud, but because we have managed to achieve this exception, which is otherwise very difficult to achieve in, we will say, interdisciplinary and also interesting coordination with other professions, in particular with environmental interests, where somehow they do not like to give hands that are less than 60 days, and there have been problems in this regard in the past. The law now requires all relevant documents to be issued within fifteen days, allowing for an effective fight also in areas that do not yet have built roads, as this will make it very easy to build trains and forest roads. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u109	Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State, for your answers. Of course, your answers hold, but we both have one problem. Today we are discussing a system-wide non-systemic law. We know that we could solve this naturally in 2014 under the basic law, but nothing has happened or, I would say, has happened, but very little. It is not enough for these measures to protect the further spread of forest damage. Now we've chosen something from the basic marriage, but not everything. Now just for this segment. And we're both right about each other, and our amendment is just to actually separate everything. This is also said to be the additional measures already covered by the basic law. I know they are. But now the question is how is this implemented in practice. Does it work or does it not work? Now, if everything were to work in practice, then this additional law alone would not be necessary for this understanding, because we could have solved this problem already under the basic law. But practice actually shows that those system laws that are, I would say, very broad do not define exactly each capture individually, do not work in practice. This gives us a table of non-systemic proposals that solve one segment and another segment in one third, one half, one quarter and so on. It's not being solved as a whole, and that's what this is really about right now. Our amendment merely summarises the remainder that is already under the basic law, that this natural matter from 2014 is actually being dealt with or added to this law, if we have already summarized something, let us take it all together. It was only our intention and our approach to actually trying to round up some integrity, only that was a good purpose, because we went into a really systemic non-systemic law to sort it out in some way.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u111	Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u112	Dear President, the distinguished Secretary of State and a few of us Members! It's not a strike today, but very few of us are here, but the darkness is very important. I will also repeat my debate, which I have been drawing here for four years in Parliament. I have repeatedly pointed out the natural conditions resulting from the global warming of the atmosphere. This will have to begin to live, and that is also why so many discussions are on the subject of trappings or bilionaires in the forest. It's basically become part of our everyday life, we won't be able to avoid it. Look, back in Davos the last time there was snow. We live in a society that has a global overheated atmosphere, and that will be more and more, and the consequences will follow, the glands, the winds, and in the final stage of the skull, which is then very active in the forest, the Secretary of State himself has mentioned that there are already about 200 of them. He has also counted numbers, and over the last few years we have come to believe that about 15 million wood has been damaged in one way or another, which attacks in the forest and remains there, and of course our skull is expanding. I understand here, of course, some reaction from the ministry to the drafting of the law has responded to some measure that is, of course, necessary and is essentially solving the consequences of a situation that is repeated to us indefinitely and that we are in a vicious circle. We spoke earlier when we discussed the Investment Promotion Act in Slovenia, which was at the second Ministry, I also stressed that we need systemic solutions, which will prevent, after a long period of personal inertia, certain laws from being passed each year. In this case, whoever it is. Of course, I understand, the response is, yes, but if we had a systemic solution, I see this mainly in the need to take advantage of this situation as a business opportunity and this attack on a wood that is being attacked every year because of different concepts, somewhere to be spent. A farmer, if his timber is torn down, if it is repeated, established an industry or a wood chain to process it, would in fact increase demand by inertia itself, a higher price for this wood would be established. This would essentially stimulate forest cleaning in itself and, as a result, would, of course, be in the final stage of less lobularity. I cannot oppose this law because it solves an acute situation, which is due to the fact that, unfortunately, Slovenia is ten million or, let's say, the growth per year does not create a wood industry that would produce this wood and have literally cleared forests would not do so. For the last time, I witnessed an event in Austria where we are recognized by the cold. Now they want to build some sort of logistic center to export the log. I've said that many times before, we're becoming a colony for other countries. That is why I see the strategic nature of measures and laws, and this law on the management of state forests is such a system law that prescribes the establishment of timber collection and processing centres. This would be the right measure to prevent, on a long-term basis, that every year we should adopt laws that are now very large. I would conclude my debate in this direction that I am of course in favour of the law. I say, however, if we systematically establish the consumers of this wood in Slovenia, such laws should not be adopted because, after some kind of inertia, the wood would be processed, the forest cleaned and the skull could no longer be so intensively developed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u113	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. Here we have a case where the government came with a new, additional law governing an area, and here we see that this mantra of “systemic”, “whole”, I don’t know, “finally”, also falls on the government, and this problem is called the solution to the consequences of the rehabilitation of overcrowded subscribers. What you've done more or less in all the debates, whenever we've passed some kind of law, you've asked us to do, now you've demented it and you've come with a new law. This is, for the first time, criticism to all those who, whenever we suggest something, oppose this solution because it is not systemic, because it is not comprehensive, because it is not completely aware of what comes with the same mistake, when the Government comes along, but who owes much more to any opposition party than to come up with systemic, comprehensive, timely and so on, but goes straight across, there is no problem in the debates, there are no critics, no one is reading government opinions and materials and so on. That's two-faced. That's one. Secondly, it would be expected that at least the measures are summarised in this part as they should be. Not that we have four laws or five in place to remedy excessive damage to our subscribers. We could make a marriage if we went systemic. And whoever's in there will see all the action that follows from this set. No problem. But it's like that now, you find something in this marriage, something in the previous marriage, something maybe in the incoming marriage, something in the Cadastrian Income Act, and so on, everything scattered. And from some farmer, farmer, forester, whatever it is, you expect it to be systematically and systematically processed. That's hard. And even the approach, I think, is not right. The other thing is, the problem is the next one. The moment we begin to engage or talk about rural issues, and when we propose some good measures, there is always a blockade, a reason, an excuse: “This is not possible.” However, let it be the farmers' pensions, let it be the payments of farmers' contributions, let it be the consideration of farm work, let it be the reliefs after they experience basic accidents, damage and so on, there are always some restrictive measures. All those who take the forest a little more seriously, you know, that a 30-year-old relief for a destroyed forest is nothing. The economic use of the forest destroyed after a fundamental accident will begin in 50 years. Until then, economic use is almost impossible because you have trees like that, and you don't have one. I am therefore surprised that the Ministry of Agriculture comes with measures that are half of what is normal time to begin the economic use of the forest at all. That's what I think, I'll say, unusual. And to allow any farmers, even when they've had some kind of basic accident, to have that, I'll say, defensive position, but it's a problem at all. If we talked about migrants and pockets here today, it would easily fly out with government support, coalition support, press conferences would be, there would be 4 representatives in room 117, or 3 coalition parties, and another civil association would stand and say what had been done in this area. Now that we are talking about the problems of the Slovenian farmer and the Slovenian countryside, as well as the measures that are actually normal, they are difficult to overcome. And there's no understanding about these things. That, I must say, surprises me very much. The reliefs that farmers have, say, in the case of elementary accidents are relatively low in my view, even the problem of payment of insurance premiums occurs in certain agricultural products or production. All possible restrictions are found not to be guaranteed to some people. It is our man and our Slovenian land and that this landscape will be treated, that someone will grow on this earth, that he will rule with it, and that he will live with it. But we will find a thousand reasons to finance everyone around us, all non-productive activities and so on. In this case it is not a social entrepreneurship or because prices are low, or if it is not possible, but it is something from which something emerges. And it grieves me very much, I must say this again, that such a partial approach to addressing problems related to the Slovenian countryside, agriculture, the situation on farms and so on. However, I would suggest that the Government's distinguished representatives support this amendment, as my colleague Žnidar said that at least one article will systematically or comprehensively cover the measures intended to assist in this fundamental disaster. It's a minimum standard. Also in terms of the transparency of the law, the transparency of the measures, in terms of regulatory arrangements, this is likely to be normal and expected. I don't think it's in anybody's interest to crush these things on, I don't know, 5 items to copy, half to let go and then immediately ask the question what's going on – Is what happened before and was that, or what's this half that's here now? Then what's the deal? If a law is adopted that has provided for certain measures, then additional measures and half of them are missing in the course of these additional measures. You should also change the title of the law. These are not additional measures, but they are additional restrictions on the implementation of the measures for the rehabilitation of basements. Since you deleted the measures, you deleted 4 measures from the previous law. These are not additional measures, but are additional restrictions, additional blockades, additional reservations that some developments will not take place in this area. I will support our amendment, but I will also support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u115	Anybody else want to discuss this? Then I conclude the debate on this Article and the amendment. I am also putting to the debate Article 13 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. After no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby terminate the 13th item of the agenda and also the 38th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
