ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 60th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Iva Dimic, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer from 3.30 p.m. to 6 p.m., Mrs Vesna Vervega, Violeta Tomić by 1 p.m., Mrs. Marinka Levičar by 12 p.m., Dr. Vinko Gorenak, mag. Matthew Tonin, Mr. Jan Škoberne, Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc by 3 p.m., mag. Branislav Rajič by 12 noon, Mr Peter Wilfan, Mr Igor Zorčič by 6 p.m., Dr. Matej T. Vatovec by 13 p.m., Dr. Franc Trček by 11 a.m. and Matjaž Hanžek by 12 noon. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the law on divination and hunting after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Mrs Strniš.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! With the amendments and additions to the Wildlife and Hunting Act, we clearly define the reasons for the revocation or non-extension of the validity of the hunting card and regulate the financing of public tasks carried out under the law by the Hunting Union of Slovenia. The amendment to Article 63 specifies the reasons for the revocation of the hunting organisation, since the fifth and sixth indents of paragraph 1 of this Article allow for a different interpretation of the reasons for the revocation of the hunting card. After amending the law, the valid hunting card will only be revoked if the hunter is legally sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for offences in the field of animal torture, illegal hunting and fishing, illegal treatment of protected animals, pollution of food or feed, destruction of forests, production and trafficking in arms. This will, for the first time, eliminate the situation when, in the same way as in the exercise of the right to hunt, hunters who have committed a lighter offence, for example, have forgotten to take a valid hunting card and hunters who have committed a crime, such as poachers. Another time. As a result, it has ensured more stable wildlife management, since most hunters who have been deprived of their three-year hunting rights under Article 63 of the Law have actually committed a lighter offence and will be able to continue hunting. The age of hunters is gradually rising, so active hunters are becoming less and less. In certain areas, it is precisely for this reason that the disproportionate penalties are already difficult to achieve the planned discharge. As a result, the failure to achieve this means an increase in the damage caused by game on agricultural surfaces and in forests. With the amendment of Article 63 of the Law, the number of active hunters will be increased, which means more effective implementation of hunting plans and consequently less damage to game. The second amendment of the law concerns the possibility of financing public tasks carried out by the Hunting Union of Slovenia from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Hunting is a union of hunting families, both those who have been awarded a concession for the sustainable management of game in hunting and those who do not manage fishing. In accordance with the law, the Union performs several tasks in the public interest. Among other things, care is taken for training and environmental awareness of hunters and communication with land owners and the public. This is a key task, as it is necessary to raise the level of competence of hunters, in particular with regard to communication with landowners in the field of prevention and assessment of damage to game. It was also mentioned in public consultations carried out for all 15 hunting areas. Participants highlighted the need to improve communication between hunters and injured operators, and in particular communication between hunters and the local population, so that everyone is informed about how to manage the game in the hunting grounds where they live. For this reason, it will also be possible to finance this task from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We estimate that the amount of funding for these tasks will be up to €50,000 per year. As has already been said, the amendment of the law will help to better manage wild game and improve communication between hunters and the local population, so honourable Members and Members hope that the law will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u3	Mag. Tanja Strniša thank you for the additional explanation. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Tomaž Lisc.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u4	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. Good bye to all of you! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Wildlife and Fisheries at its 70th emergency meeting on 12 April this year. The Committee first took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which made a concrete comment on Article 2 of the draft law which had been complied with and the amendment adopted by the Committee. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the State Council and the Hunting Union of Slovenia, which support the proposal for a law. A representative of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia participated in the discussion, stressing that the Chamber with regard to the amendment of Article 63 of the Law does not have substantive comments, but supports a more detailed regime for the withdrawal of the hunting card. The Chamber also has no comments on the amendment of Article 23 of the current law. However, it expresses its concerns about the conditions for obtaining these funds from the State budget. The representative of the Hunting Union of Slovenia presented the reasons for the initiative to amend Article 63 of the current law. In a short discussion, members of the coalition and opposition parliamentary groups supported the proposed amendment of the law. It is only noted that the age of hunters is increasing, that the offspring is getting smaller and that certain hunting families have problems with shooting or fulfilling the prescribed quota. In addition, if the relationship between hunting families and farmers with regard to the payment of damages is exacerbated, this conflict will deter people from entering hunting families, which will endanger wildlife management. Thus, the number of game will increase, and damage will increase. And hunting families won't be able to pay for that. In the debate on Article 2 of the draft law, the members of the Committee agreed with the proposed solution set out in the amendment of the Levic Group to this article concerning the indication of fishing-related offences. The Committee has therefore drafted and adopted its amendment to Article 2 of the draft law summarizing the content of the amendment of the coalition groups and part of the text of the amendment of the left-wing Group. The representatives of the Left Group and the coalition groups announced the withdrawal of their amendments. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the adoption of the amendment, the text of the amended law, which includes the adoption of the amendment, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u6	Your Honor! The key task and responsibility of the hunters is to ensure the economic management and protection of the game. Hunting has both natural and social and economic functions, and therefore the fundamental objective of the change is to ensure the financing of the tasks performed in the public interest by the Hunting Union of Slovenia to ensure those functions of hunting and some of them as a public mandate. The amendment to Article 63 of the current law will also remove any confusion as to when a hunting card may be revoked or not extended. The latest solutions are also key solutions to the proposed novels. The hunter can become anyone who takes a hunting test and swears to respect the ethical code of Slovenian hunters and does not violate the applicable legislation. It is appropriate that the right to carry out such an activity is subject to very high standards. Of course, it is fitting that such a right be lost by those who show that they are morally and ethically contentious and commit illegal acts. Why is it that despite the high standards mentioned, changes are justified for someone to become a hunter? It follows from last year's consideration of the rejected proposal for the adoption of the authentic interpretation of Mr Janko Vebra that the language and intentional interpretation of Article 63 of the Law on Wildlife and Hunting is not possible that the text of the law is unclear and that changes to the law are necessary and necessary. For the law in force allows for an interpretation whereby a conviction which results in the termination of a hunting certificate is found in any proceedings, both criminal and, lastly, in legal proceedings. In fact, the termination of the validity of the hunting cards means the cessation of the right to pursue a hunting activity, where the offences are generally unrelated to the activity of a particular hunter. However, for many hunters the prohibition of hunting is significantly worse than a fine, so a proposal has been made to exclude warnings and offences from the conditions of withdrawal and insists solely on offences related to hunting, hunting and, as such, to be defined in the Penal Code, namely “criminal acts of animal torture and illegal hunting and illegal treatment of protected animals”. If a hunter with a valid hunting card commits one of those offences and is legally convicted, the Hunting Union of Slovenia shall revoke the validity of the hunting card until it is deleted from the criminal record in accordance with Article 82 of the Penal Code. In this case, it is not the so-called double punishment, but only the loss of the conditions for that right and the withdrawal takes only as long as the sanctions last. In this regard, we would like to point out that, in the SMC Group's debate on Article 2 of the bill, we also agreed with the proposed solution from the amendment of the Levic Group's amendment to this article on the indication of crimes related to hunting. Members of the SMC also share the view that all crimes committed that are related to either hunting or possession of weapons are unacceptable in assessing whether an individual has the right to engage in hunting activities. The President of the Hunting Union and the Secretary of State at the Ministry also agreed. In the SMC Group, we believe that the regulation so far has been inappropriate. We believe that it is wrong for hunters to have their hunting card revoked even for unrelated fishing offences, so we support the change and we want the hunters to continue to work successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u7	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support this law or novelty, because it defines those offences more precisely or, we can say, the crimes for which a hunter could be on the card, or whether it would not be extended or taken away from him. So far, many injustices have been committed here. Someone who received a warning from a hunting inspector could have been deprived of a hunting card for several years. And there were many such and other anomalies. But we're just putting out a fire. In the introduction, the Secretary of State said well that the age of the Hunting Union of Slovenia is increasing, young hunters are becoming smaller, and this is a long-term problem. For those of us who are aware of the situation, the problem, for those who see the opportunity, is certainly a solution. What am I talking about? It is certainly the goal of some in the Republic of Slovenia, that one day hunting should be arranged according to the example of Croatia, Austria, some other countries, in short, following the example of countries in which you go to forests and practically savages no longer because they literally exterminated it. This should not happen in Slovenia. However, we must be careful that in the coming years we will do two things, so that at the same time we will manage the game well, on the one hand, and on the other hand we will do everything possible to minimise the damage caused by the wild. Here farmers rightly and rightly point out the damage, sometimes they are enormous. Yesterday in the State Council there was excellent consultation on the subject of the beast. Unfortunately, nothing has been done in this area. There's a jackal, there's more wolves, there's a lot of damage, and farmers are justifiably angry about it. The hunters are also reminded of the wrong policy of dealing with beasts, but in this area bureaucracy in ministries does not listen to farmers or hunters. And that's definitely one of those things that's gonna have to be done in the future. It will also be necessary to change the title that comes in the municipality and then remains in the state budget, the title of the concession fee. There is a lot of damage, and a lot of hunting families don't have enough money to make up for this damage, so some of the money that the hunting family gives for the concession and 50 % of the municipality, 50% of the country, should be returned. I also personally believe that the level of age should be discussed, which should be the limit for entry into the hunting family or entry into the Hunting Union of Slovenia and thus the acquisition of a hunting card. I personally believe that if 16-year-olds can drive a car accompanied by an adult, I do not see why, for example, 16-year-olds could not once be members of the Hunting Union of Slovenia, of course they should not be able to hunt on their own, but they should be able to hunt with a hunting mentor, and the weapons could not be obtained under article 14 of the Weapons Act until they are 18 years old. We will have to speak in the next term and also take concrete measures in this area, or in the area of game and hunting, which will go in the direction of raising interest on the one hand in the tasks carried out by hunters and on the other hand in the measures that will reduce the damage. I'm sure a formula like that can be found. I am sure that we can get those effective solutions that will be useful both for the game and for the farmers we need to understand and support in their efforts to reduce the damage. We will support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Since it's coming on May 1st, when the hunt starts, I want a good look at all the hunters.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u9	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A nice welcome to the distinguished Secretary of State with her co-workers and Members and Members. I will present the position of the Desus Group on the amendment of the Wildlife and Hunting Act. Allow me to say at the outset that our Group of Members will support the bill in a uniform way. One reason for support is that, by supplementing Article 63 of the Act, which lays down the conditions for withdrawal or for the non-extension of the validity of the hunting card, the practice of fishing cards has been inconsistent. It happened that hunters were treated in the same way as easier and for more serious offenses. For example, a hunter who forgot to take a hunting card with him for his sentence received a three-year hunting card. Also, for three years, the hunter who dealt with poaching was, of course, much worse broken than the forgotten hunting card. At the meeting of the home working body, an amendment was adopted to the committee introducing a more clear statement, which acts are considered to be so severe as to take away the hunting card as a result of their infringement. However, it is common to all that a person must be legally sentenced to unconditional imprisonment. The second reason why we will contribute votes for the adoption of the law in the Desus Group is that the amendment regulates the financing of public tasks carried out under the law by the Hunting Union of Slovenia and then by members of the hunting family. According to the law, the hunting union of Slovenia is already carrying out several tasks in the public interest for which it receives no payment by the State. Among other things, care is taken for the welfare of game, which is considered a natural asset and is considered to be the property of the country, training and environmental awareness of hunters and communication with landowners and the public. This task is one of the key, as the level of competence of hunters needs to be raised, in particular at the level of communication with landowners in the field of prevention and assessment of damage by game. At the meeting of the mother's working body, the Hunting Union also noted the rise in the average age of hunters and the lower number of juveniles. Even in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we have already pointed out this issue of the ageing of hunters when we consider the previous novelties of this law. Therefore, in the parliamentary group, we expect that, by regulating the financing of the tasks of the Hunting Union of Slovenia from the budget, it will also be possible to pay more attention to the acquisition of new members, as we must be aware that hunters represent an indispensable element in the protection and conservation of nature and the natural environment. In the parliamentary group, we will unitedly support the law. However, since we represent the views of the Group of Members, and my speaker also spoke about the participation of young people in the hunting family in order to reduce the age from 18 to 16 years, I will take advantage of the fact that I am speaking, because there will probably be no discussion afterwards, and say that I do not share such an opinion. I believe that a person must be of age when he is able to join a hunting family that has specific tasks and therefore engages in hunting, also through the use of weapons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u12	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. The amendment to the law we are considering today regulates the financing of the tasks performed by the Hunting Union of Slovenia in the public interest. These tasks include training and environmental awareness of hunters, communication with land owners and the public, participation in scientific and research work related to wild animals, care for the development of hunting cinema, organisation of exams and so on. All of this will be subject to new funding or co-financing from the state budget. What is more important for us in Levica is that the amendment of the law will define more precisely the reasons for the revocation or non-extension of the validity of the hunting card, which will allow the Hunting Union of Slovenia to better carry out the whole process of revocation of the hunting card and, above all, define the conditions for withdrawal more clearly. The initial proposal of the law we are considering has identified animal torture, illegal hunting and illegal treatment of animals as the reason for the withdrawal or non-renewal of the card. In Levica, we are pleased that the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food has also adopted our proposal to increase the number of criminal offences which are the reason for the failure or failure to issue hunting cards. First, on the offences of food pollution or feeding and destruction of forests. We have proposed this because hunters must have a positive attitude towards nature and it would be inappropriate to treat with a hunting card persons who deliberately contaminate animal feed or destroy forests that are the living space of animals for which these persons should care. Secondly, we have expanded the list of crimes that have led to the failure to extend the hunting card by two other crimes. These are weapons acquisitions and illicit production and trafficking in arms or explosives. It is already stated in the current law that the hunting card shall not be extended to a person who is legally convicted of weapons offences. In this sense, our proposal preserves the spirit of the original law only if it is more clearly and definitively written, in which cases it must not be extended. That's why we're going to support the law in Levica. It makes it possible to finance the tasks of the hunting union carried out in the public interest while sharpening the provisions relating to the non-renewal or withdrawal of the hunting card, which will, on the one hand, facilitate the work of the Hunting Link in these procedures and, on the other hand, give a clear message to holders of hunting cards in which they will lose their cards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u13	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 24th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking the 8th item of the agenda. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is a bill on amendments to the Act on the Recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for Business Excellence after the cut-off procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Eva Štravs Podlogar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u14	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! Allow me to present to you the objectives and solutions of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for Business Excellence, which was approved by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as a proponent on 2 February this year. The Act on the Recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for Business Excellence regulates the procedures for awarding the highest national award awarded to organisations in the field of quality of business, both in the public and in the private sector. The recognition is granted by a committee appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the professional and administrative work for the purposes of the committee is now carried out by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for metrology, which is the body of the Ministry of Economic Development. The purpose of the Act amending the Law on the Recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for Business Excellence is dual, the transfer of competence to the recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for business excellence from the Ministry of Science to the Ministry responsible for the economy, with a view to the substantive and procedural harmonisation of the area concerned and the transfer of competences for professional and administrative work to the Committee of the Republic of Slovenia from the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for metrology to the public agency responsible for entrepreneurship, is SPIRIT. This brings in the implementation of the Business Excellence Strategy 2018-2030, which aims at setting up a business excellence organisation with the institutionalisation of business excellence as a first strategic objective in order to make activities in this area more competitive for Slovenia. As the models of excellence in the world have clearly demonstrated that organisations can create higher added value and thus preserve or improve the market situation, such approaches are also necessary and necessary for the Slovenian organisation. In order to ensure synergies, it is reasonable and economically optimal to transfer tasks related to the management of PRSP procedures to an institution that will establish mechanisms to promote the principles of business excellence through entry schemes, recognition of business excellence or already established for the economic sector, which is the agency responsible for entrepreneurship. This will enable the successful introduction of excellence into organisations and also the recognition by the State of excellent organisations through the PRSPO award. I am convinced that changes in the law bring good and well-founded solutions that will contribute to enhancing the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. As it is said, the adoption of the law is essential for the implementation of the business excellence strategy and the early implementation of the strategy itself is expected. The transfer of PRSPs to SPIRIT will allow business excellence to be promoted through all possible mechanisms implemented by SPIRIT following its adoption. I therefore propose that you support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u15	The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Andreja Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u16	Dear President, Secretary of State with colleagues, dear fellow Members! The Committee on the Economy is at its 57th emergency meeting. 4. 2018 as a parent labour body treated the above-mentioned proposal of the law. In addition to the proposal for a law, the Committee also received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Committee of the State Economic, Commercial, Tourism and Finance Council. Within a specified time limit, qualified investors have not tabled amendments to the draft law. In its opening statement, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology explained that the law in question regulates the procedure for the recognition of the Republic of Slovenia as a business excellence and that the main objective of the proposed amendments is the transfer from the Ministry of Science to the Ministry responsible for the economy. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained in explanation of the written opinion of the Service that the service had no comments on the proposal for a law. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the main proposals of the law. Since no amendments have been adopted to the draft law on the home working body, the Committee on the Economy of the National Assembly proposes that the proposed Act amending the Law on the Recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for Business Excellence should be adopted in the present text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u17	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the Government, distinguished President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleague and colleague! The recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for business excellence was designed in the first years of Slovenia's independence under the national quality programme, following the example of other European awards, in order to offer support to the economy in the fastest possible recovery and increase competitiveness. In cooperation with the then European Foundation for Quality and Management, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the European methodology and criteria for the model of excellence and incorporated them into the system of the State Award for Business Excellence. The proposed amendments proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in a reduced procedure essentially allow for the transfer of competences to the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for business excellence with the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for metrology in order to promote entrepreneurship, internationalisation of foreign investment and technology. This will put in place the solutions set out in the business excellence strategy 2018-2030, which has the first strategic objective of establishing the organisation of business excellence or institutionalisation of business excellence, in a way that will enable activities in this area to contribute to greater competitiveness in the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, let me say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, any legal proposal that went towards raising the business excellence of our companies in this mandate, to recognition, we can also say that we support the internationalisation of Slovenian companies through the system of business excellence. We have always supported this law, and despite the water running down our throats, we will support it. Dear representatives of the Government, I hope you are aware of this, that the Slovenian economy, the Slovenian craftsmanship in particular, seems very important to us that the recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for business excellence is in fact the highest national recognition in the field of quality of business as a result of the development of knowledge and innovation and continuous improvements that make Slovenia successful and competitive. As I said, we will support the draft law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u19	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Honorable President, dear colleagues and colleagues! New business models require continuous investment, new knowledge, business ideas, upgrading digitisation and consequently monitoring and evaluation of effects. We could say that changes today are the only constant and it is right that this is so, because we estimate that it is only in this way that it is possible to keep pace, contact with competition and develop and advance in the business world. In Slovenia we have been awarding awards for business excellence for two decades. The Desus Group would like to see as many companies as possible among the recipients of such awards, especially the private sector and, if you ask me, as many companies as possible from Maribor and the surrounding area. I believe there are a lot of such companies in our places. This also follows the vision, as set out in the business excellence strategy, that only by the growth of excellent organisations can we contribute to improving the global competitiveness of our Slovenian economy and to raising the level of prosperity in Slovenian society as a whole. The bill removes, and I am not sure that the only one, but certainly the main flaw that has so far proved to be, is also an obstacle to the ease, faster realization of the vision and objectives that we know in the strategy itself. It is necessary to transfer competences from the Bureau of Metrology to SPIRIT or to the Agency responsible for entrepreneurship and consequently from the Ministry of Science to the Ministry of Economy. We assess and believe that this is a necessary step, which will eliminate any administrative and other obstacles that have been identified so far, that the matter will become faster glass, that it will be effective and bring new value primarily to the economy and consequently to all residents and residents in Slovenia. Because of the above, there is virtually nothing to add. Members and Members of Desus will be unanimously supported by the amendment of the draft regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u21	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Ivan Škodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members! Slovenia has recognised business excellence as an important basis for achieving global competitiveness both for the economy, for public administration in the broadest sense of the individual and for other areas. We believe that through this, many great stories will be created in the future, where innovation, creative cooperation and lifelong learning will be important. The future is in linking, disseminating good practices, sustainable models, innovation, creativity and in strengthening the excellence of all of us. The country's concern for excellence is recognised through the procedure for the recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for business excellence, which is the highest national recognition under the national quality programme of the Republic of Slovenia for achievements in the field of product and service quality and the quality of business as a result of the development of knowledge and innovation. Procedure for granting the procedure under the auspices of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for natural science. Statistical data on the number of applicants and the number of awards granted in the business excellence recognition process of the Republic of Slovenia show that we have found ourselves at one of the lowest, if not the lowest, levels of excellence in the national recognition scheme. The approaches so far do not yield the desired results. If it is to be maintained, but even promoted, this highest national recognition of private and public sector organisations for their efforts and achievements in the path of excellence needs to be made more radically. In order to regulate the area of excellence, a systematic approach is needed which will allow better support for private and public law entities to decide on their way to excellence. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall meet at the 166th ordinary meeting on 2. 2. 2018 set out the text of the proposal for a law amending the Law on Recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for Business Excellence. The proposed amendments concern only the transfer of competences for the performance of professional and administrative works from the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for metrology to the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the promotion of entrepreneurship, internationalisation, foreign investment and technology, and the transfer of competences from the Ministry responsible for science to the Ministry of Economics, which has in practice been transferred by law amending and supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia when the field of metrology has been transferred from the Ministry of Science to the Ministry of Economy. With the proposed arrangement, the area is adequately located and we will support the amendment of the law on the recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for business excellence in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u23	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, and I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 24th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking the 9th point of the agenda. We're moving on to 10. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Consumer Protection Act after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology Eva Štravs Podlogar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u24	Dear Members and Members of Parliament, Mr President! Thank you so much for saying that. You have before you a proposal for a law that builds on the current regulation of travel arrangements in the Consumer Protection Act by the rules of the European Package Travel Directive and related travel arrangements. The draft law regulates package travel and related travel arrangements offered or sold by companies to consumers or businesses. The bill also addresses minor shortcomings in the transposition of the Consumer Rights Directive, which the European Commission has pointed out to the Republic of Slovenia in the pilot project. On 22 February this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia laid down the text of the bill and forwarded it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for adoption following a reduced procedure, as it is less difficult to amend and comply with the European Union rule. The proposal for a law was on 9. 4. Also adopted at an urgent meeting of the Committee on the Economy of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We believe that, in cooperation with all stakeholders, we have drawn up a law that will ensure a high level of consumer protection without imposing unnecessary additional burdens on the economy. With regard to the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act, the Ministry carried out two inter-ministerial coordinations and also organised two public consultations, which were attended by all the major stakeholders. We have taken into account many of the comments and proposals received both by the economy and by independent consumer organisations. The key objectives pursued by the proposal for a law do not change significantly compared to the regulation in force. It is a matter of harmonising Slovenian legislation with European legislation and harmonising rules between the legal order of EU Member States as regards the rights and obligations of consumers and travel organisers. Update the area of consumer protection when purchasing a combination of travel services for the same journey or vacation by solving the scope of the different forms of online purchases of packages and ensuring effective protection of consumers in the event of liquidity problems of the travel organiser. In the Government, we expect that through legislative proposals we will increase consumer confidence and enable them to make decisions more easily and thus encourage the functioning of the market, organisation and sale of package travel, so I propose that you support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u25	The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Andreja Potočnik for the presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u26	Thanks again for saying that. The Committee on the Economy is at its 57th emergency meeting. 4. 2018 as a parent labour body treated the above-mentioned proposal of the law. In addition to the proposal for a law, the Committee was accompanied by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law were tabled by SMC, Desus and SD. In its initial supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology explained that the main purpose of the proposal is to harmonise Slovenian legislation with European legislation. This should allow for a higher level of consumer protection when purchasing a combination of travel services for the same journey and in the event of liquidity problems of the travel organiser. It stated that the draft law would not give rise to additional burdens on the state budget. The Secretary of State also supported the harmonisation of the provisions of the bill with the amendments tabled following the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service further explained that the amendments tabled by the coalition groups are appropriate and fully in line with the views of the Legislative and Legal Service. The Committee did not discuss the content of the resolution of the bill, but considered and adopted amendments from the SMC, Desus and SD groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation is prepared and the amendments adopted are included. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u27	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u28	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everybody! The Novela was proposed by the Government mainly because of the transposition of the European Directive into the Slovenian legal order and relates to package travel and related travel arrangements. The rules in this area have been in force since 1990, but the development of the Internet also adapts to the increasingly difficult needs of consumers. Due to the growing trend of direct and rapid selection of tourism services, which has changed the current marketing system, further attention should be paid to better and clearer consumer information. In the first place, there is detailed information on the characteristics of a wide range of tourism products, and the requirements for clearly defined rights are also increasing. Consumers should be provided with adequate protection to respond, inter alia, to the question of the liability of the entities. The proposed novel also extends a set of information on the travel organiser in cases where his business is illiquid. The adoption of the bill is also necessary in order to comply with the recently adopted Tourism Promotion Act. Let us recall that in the Desus Group we have been advocates of the system of organisation of school excursions in the direction of a clearer and broader definition of the tourist package due to problems in practice caused by unequivocal provisions. Today's bill also adequately defines the concept of a tourist package and at the same time lays down exceptions under precisely defined conditions. For all of this, Members and Members of our Group will support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u29	The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! We won't object to the law in the Left. The aim of the directive is good, as today's tourism product market situation requires greater consumer protection. However, a serious question is raised whether the text of this Directive is appropriate and whether the transposition of the Directive into the Consumer Protection Act is optimal. The former, currently in force for us, the Directive was adopted in 1990. Since then, the supply and marketing of tourism products has changed considerably, and in the 1930s our lives have changed to a great extent. The 2015 Directive thus finally tackles digital tourism. As this same digital tourism confronts the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, we have recently seen the amendment of the Law on Promoting the Development of Tourism. The areas have been further deregulation and liberalised, the situation of tourist workers and workers has deteriorated, and tourists have been charged a higher tourist tax. They added a new promotion fee, with which they will especially hit those less wealthy, domestic tourists and others who are on vacation with us. From 1 January next year, if a four-member family with two teenage children arrives in Ljubljana for 7 days, it will pay €87.5 only for tourist fees, which is mildly insane, regardless of the differences between the different categories of tourist nights. It is no different in the case of the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act, which we are currently considering. The Ministry did not take into account the proposal made by the Slovenian Consumers Association that the seller of the tourist package, which was composed by a travel organiser who is not established in Slovenia, should be considered as a travel organiser and thus also responsible for the implementation of the tourist package. The reply of the Government or the Ministry of the Interior, I quote: "The duplication of responsibility of various companies would impose disproportionate burdens on the Slovenian economy." End of quote. The second proposal of the Union of Consumers was that, following the example of the neighbouring Croatian Ministry, the proposed law would add an undertaking's obligation to provide the consumer with proof of the guarantee in cases of liquidity of the same company's problems in hand at the time of the conclusion of the package travel contract. Why? In order to enable the consumer to exercise his rights directly on the basis of proof of his rights. The response of the proposer, the department of the department, is quoted as follows: “Considering the proposal would be an additional administrative burden for the company.” End of quote. In short, over and over again, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, which in this mandate is not what the name itself says, puts the interests of capital ahead of people's interests, in this case, against consumer protection. In the area of tourism, especially travel packages, there are very frequent abuses, setbacks, non-professional services, and therefore consumer rights, rights should be strengthened if you want, travellers, tourists better protected, while at the same time strengthening supervision and sanctions in this area. One directive, which has a good purpose, with this team that has once again turned into a fiasco on MGRT, which is why we will be held back in Levica. However, in the next reference, there will also be a necessary reflection on the area of tourism by means of more appropriate legislation, which we will be working on in Levica. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u31	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Marko Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to the secretary state and everyone else in the hall. The applicable rules on package travel were adopted when the internet was not yet available. The airlines were not liberalised, and the travel market mainly offered pre-prepared trips and package travel. However, today's consumers are increasingly interested in the personal selection of various elements of travel packages, often produced by several individual operators. This is why the tourism industry has developed a number of new products in the last period, and in particular has changed the marketing method, which we need to be aware of. That's what she's done. She's been rerouting all things to the world's web. Since the existing rules of all these elements do not cover or are unclear about them, consumers do not know exactly what protection they have in this case and legal entities do not know what their responsibilities are. Legal differences in the field of package travel can be observed in the European Union, primarily due to the fact that a number of Member States have taken advantage of the principle of minimum harmonisation in the transposition of Council Directive 90/314/EEC of 13 June 1990 on package travel, organised holidays and excursions and have legalised decisions that provide consumers with a higher level of protection than Directive 90/314/EEC, which provides only a minimum level of protection. The EU has therefore adopted a new Directive 2015/2302 of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe of 25. 11. 2015 on package travel and links and travel arrangements that adapt to the development of the tourism market and thus respond to the needs of consumers in the current digital age. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is at the 169th regular session of 22. 2. 2018 sets out the text of a bill implementing the amended rules at EU level. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act thus provides for a wide range of information to be provided by the company before the contract is concluded to the consumer, thereby ensuring that the consumer is better informed about the services it purchases. The law also specifies the appeal procedure in the event that the service is not performed in accordance with the contract. Uniform rules on liability will also facilitate cross-border cooperation between organisers and sellers. The consumer will also be able to address his complaint to the seller, who will have to contact the travel organiser immediately. Consumer protection is also ensured in the event of insolvency of the organiser or seller, which is extremely important. Thus, the travel organiser will only be able to raise the price after the contract has been concluded if it has been agreed or the agreement will also have to include a way of calculating the price change. The law also contains exceptions to the agreed price rule, but only up to 8 %. The travel organiser must also guarantee all advance payments if liquidity problems have arisen between the time of conclusion and the performance of the contract and therefore there is no travel. Amendments that followed the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service were tabled for the meeting of the home working body. This considers that the amendments followed their opinion accordingly, so that individual nomotechnical irregularities have been corrected. Therefore, no additional amendments were necessary for the meeting of the National Assembly. In the SMC Group, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Consumer Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u33	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u34	Thank you very much. As you know, dear colleagues, usually my discussions or suggestions may be somewhat taken from some of the standard issues. That is why today, before I submit my proposal – and I must admit that the Slovenian Democratic Party will also support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Consumer Protection Act – to the general Slovenian public, as well as to those who do not know European civil law, why the regulation has been implemented and what has happened. In the case of package travel, the Court of Justice of the European Union, in which Professor Verica Trstenjak was also a state defender, brought about one case that changed the course of package travel. The case was called Leitner v. Germany. It was a trip by Simone Leitner in 2002, where a company travelling with a tourist agency infected Turkey with salmonella. On this basis, the Court of Justice of the European Union adopted a decision at that time and also recognised the intangible loss of pleasure. This was one of the grounds why the European Parliament has also begun to amend a number of laws on the basis of this judgment. With regard to the proposal for a law, I must say that in 2007 we introduced Council Directive 90/314, then the European Economic Community, into the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act, of 13 June 1990. This content was regulated by the Bond Act in the framework of the travel organisation contract. Directive 2015/2302 amends Regulation (EU) 2015/2302 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repeals Council Directive and requires the Member States of the European Union to comply with the adopted Directive by 1 January 2018 at the latest. What is the essence of compliance with this Directive? The substance of the harmonisation of Slovenian legislation with the European Directive is, therefore, the transposition of Directive 2015/2302, which is the complete harmonisation and transposition of Article 6(1), second and fifth paragraphs, of Article 8 and Article 10 of Directive 2011/83, in order to address the deficiencies in the transposition of those Articles. In particular, it is a matter of harmonising the rules between the legal order of the Member States of the European Union as regards the rights and obligations of consumers and travel organisers, updating the scope of consumer protection when purchasing a combination of travel services for the same journey or holidays by extending the scope to different forms of online purchase of packages and assisting in organising travel. Above all, it is also about ensuring effective consumer protection because many examples of package travel, where some insolvency proceedings have also occurred and consumers themselves have been extremely damaged. In this case, therefore, there is also a case of liquidity problems for travel organisers. As I said at the outset, the Slovenian Democratic Party will confirm and vote in favour of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u35	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, which is half an hour after the end of the 24th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking the 10th item of the agenda. We're moving to 11. At the time of the day, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the laws on the collection of health protection data after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Jožica Maučec Zakotnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u36	Mr President, thank you very much. A good greeting to all Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed law will provide a legal basis for the functioning of Dora and Svit state screening programmes, the information upgrade of the Zora screening programme and the active registration of cancer in the cancer register. Closer data on the quality of diagnosis and treatment of cancer patients in clinical registers will be made possible and appropriate registration of test subjects from families burdened with hereditary cancer can be carried out. The objectives of the bill are to enable the management and monitoring of the registers of Dore and Sweet screening programmes, to establish a renewed screening policy and new functionality of the built-in Zora information system, to ensure that the quality of the treatment of cancer patients and their owners is monitored, to link the implementation of treatment with their effects, and to enable the objectives and actions both in the general population and in the case of highly vulnerable cancer in hereditary cancers, to establish a register of rare non-lingual diseases and endoprotetics for regular monitoring of services and control of the quality of services and for the endoprotection registry also for the control of used materials. All the objectives of the proposed cancer law are also included in the national cancer control programme adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia 2017 and other strategic documents. Svit and Dora screening programmes, which are still national programmes, do not have a legal basis for Swit and Dora databases. The handling of personal data, the establishment of both screening databases, the selection of the programme and the monitoring of the outcome of the examinations in the Swit and Dora screening programmes shall be conducted on the basis of the approval of the Office of Information Authorised, which has already called for the legal regulation of this area on several occasions. Without databases, it is not possible to implement screening programmes. The screening programmes detect pre-cancer changes and early forms of cancer and save lives. The Dora programme started this year throughout Slovenia and is now accessible to all women in the target age group, and Sweet has been working at country level for nine years, including men and women aged 50 to 75. Let me list some of the benefits of Sweet. Before or prior to the application of this programme, colon cancer was detected in limited form only by 15%. All other cases were cases of dispersion either into the environment or into further metastases, which meant worse treatment options and worse survival. More than 2 000 600 cancer cases have been detected during the Sweet programme and advanced adenomas have been removed in more than 21,000 people, which poses a higher risk for cancer development. Therefore, after three years of implementation of Sweet, the number of cancers detected has also decreased by 300 cases, which is also confirmed by the cancer registry. Of the 2 000 600 cancers detected in Sweet, more than 70% of all cancers were detected at an early stage of development when no additional cancer treatment is needed. Svit behaves not only with high health efficiency but also with high cost-effectiveness, as World Health Treasury can save €20 million at the annual level, with already included programme costs. Changes in the existing register of cancer of the Republic of Slovenia will allow monitoring of the quality of treatment of individuals and their cancers at the level of the operator and the updated registration of cancers and the simultaneous monitoring of the incidence, prevalence and mortality. In addition to this record, it also introduces a register of endoprotetics to record all actions of insertion of artificial joints, arthroplastics, allowing monitoring of the quality of implants, achievements and comparisons between individual populations. In all the areas of cancer control and screening programmes listed above, rare non-malgable diseases and endoprotetics are subject to the collection of sensitive personal data, which must be defined in the law in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. As already mentioned, some of the collections are not covered, while others have significantly changed their needs and requirements since the adoption of the law and are therefore necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u37	The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u38	Thank you very much, President. Say good-bye to everyone again! At its 43rd emergency meeting, the Health Committee considered the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Databases in the Field of Health submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. Members and members of the Committee have received material which has also been published on the website of the National Assembly. Amendments were tabled within the deadline of business, namely the Coalition's sent groups and New Slovenia's second Article. On behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary Jožica Maucec Kokotnik submitted the supplementary explanation and presented the content and significance of the draft law. The law provides the legal basis for the functioning of the Dora and Sweet State screening programmes and the information upgrade of the Zora screening programme and the active registration of cancer in the cancer register. Closer data on the quality of diagnosis and treatment of cancer patients in clinical registers will be made possible and appropriate registration of test subjects from families burdened with hereditary cancer may be made possible. The opinion was also given by the Legal and Legal Service. He was represented by a magus. Sonja Bien Karlovšek. Regarding the proposal for a law, amendments were tabled by coalition parliamentary groups, which took account of the legislative and legal services' comments to a greater extent or, in the light of the comments given, the explanations contained in the explanations of the amendments. The opinion of the State Council was presented by the Mag. Mr Požun stressed that the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons supported the proposal of the law. Representatives of the Oncology Institute, the National Cancer Control Programme and the National Institute for Health Protection, the Svit Programme and the Health Data Centre presented the position on the bill below. There was no debate on the bill. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 1 and 2 of the Coalition, but did not adopt the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 2. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report.Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u39	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendment to the Health Databases Act will, according to the applicant, provide a legal basis for the functioning of Dora and Svit State screening programmes, an information upgrade to the Zora screening programme and the active registration of cancer in the cancer register. Closer data on the quality of diagnosis and treatment of cancer patients in clinical registers will be provided. This will allow for the proper registration of test subjects from families burdened with hereditary cancer. The objectives of the bill are: to enable the management of the register of screening programmes of Dora and Sweet and to monitor their effectiveness; to enable the establishment of a renewed screening policy and new functionality of the upgraded Zora information system; to ensure quality monitoring of the treatment of cancer patients and their properties; to link the implementation of treatment with their effects; and to allow targeted action both in the general population and in cases of highly endangered cancer – hereditary cancers; to establish a register of rare non-malignant diseases and endoprotetics for regular monitoring of services and control of the quality of services; and to monitor endoprotetics also for the control of used materials. The upgrade of the Zora database will finally provide a legal basis for the collection of HPV data, which, due to inadequate legal basis, has been carried out only on the basis of the consent of the patient. After the renewal of the Zora information system, the change of the collection will allow for the adaptation of women to be informed of the important dates and content of the recommended reviews and the results of these reviews. The establishment of a database of Dora will provide a legal basis for the management infrastructure of the programme, the recruitment and monitoring of the target population, the collection and storage of data, the provision of adequate information flows between programme operators and operators, the evaluation of programme performance and the basis for clinical and epidemiological research. The establishment of the Svit database is necessary as the programme processes a comprehensive database of personal data. All of this is absolutely necessary and we want to help to ensure greater efficiency and timely treatment of the patient. Even though it has been chewed so many times here in this place: waiting types need to be reduced to a minimum, so much more in these categories of patients. We want and we need to ensure that these databases, this collection, the processing, help with a more efficient system for the elimination of waiting periods. This novel is purely technical and represents an upgrade to the eHealth system, so we will not oppose it in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u41	The word is given by the Left Messenger Group, followed by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u42	Good-bye! The proposed law will allow for better implementation of preventive health programmes in the field of cancer prevention and other diseases. The proposed amendments are of a technical nature, but they must be adopted at legal level in order to protect personal data. The proposed law will be supported by members of the Left. This does not mean that we support the health policy of the outgoing government. Far from it. The conditions in the healthcare system are such that no new register and no technical change can correct them. Only a radical change of political priorities can save them. It is unacceptable that the most difficult patients in Slovenia are still being treated in buildings that were built during Austro-Hungarian times. It is unacceptable that Maribor still does not have a clinical centre that is equivalent to Ljubljana’s. It's a shame that disabled youth in Stara Gora are still being treated in saloon barracks. If we want to achieve the objectives of this law and the health system in general, it is said to ensure that all citizens receive both preventive and timely treatment, we will have to allocate more public funds to health care. In Slovenia, we allocate 6.7% of GDP to health, while the EU average is 7.1%. Comparable countries also make a substantial difference: the Czech Republic, 7.4% of GDP, and Austria, 8% of GDP. On the other hand, both Czech Republic and Austria have lower military expenditures than Slovenia. If we want more health, we need to do two, on the one hand we need to increase our income and on the other hand we need to reduce unjustified expenditure. If we want to increase our income, we must abolish supplementary health insurance as soon as possible and replace it with a solidarity public tax that will be socially fair. In this way, the insurance companies would be ripped out of the EUR 60 million they unjustifiably adopt each year, and they would devote this EUR 60 million to the treatment of our peoples and peoples. On the other hand, we need to stop harmful investments. Every euro that is spent needlessly is lost to invest in a better health system. What are these harmful investments? The largest would certainly be the armament of two new battalion fighting groups planned by the Government under the NATO dictatorship. In order to arm these two battalion groups, they are expected to spend as much as €1.2 billion over the next eight years, more than the budgets of the Ministry of Health in the last eight years, or they could build 12 paediatric clinics for this money. That's for comparison. As long as the interests of foreign centres take precedence over the needs of the people and people of Slovenia, the health situation will only deteriorate. Although new registries and technical laws are commendable, they cannot solve the underlying problem. You know what they say on the other side of the Atlantic Road your money where your mouth is. If you promise people better health care, you have to provide money for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u43	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Mrs Vlasta Wait.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u44	Thank you very much, very good-bye to everyone. Data collection and processing of healthcare and eHealth data and their operators and beneficiaries are governed by the Health Databases Act adopted by the National Assembly in 2015. This law was the basis for the introduction of a central register and other eHealth databases such as e-reception and e-procurement. The current law therefore lays down the types and content of individual healthcare collections, their purpose, similar reports, who must provide the data and when, the database operators, the way in which the data is provided and the time in which the data is stored, as defined in Annex 1 of that Act. With the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Databases in the Field of Health, we are interfering precisely with this table, which is supplemented by additional databases. The latter is complemented in particular by the fact that the progress of information technology and the increased need for health care demonstrate the need for the urgent establishment of new databases and the modernisation of some still existing databases. The law therefore introduces or complements the legal basis for the implementation of the State Programme for Cancer Control until 2021, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in 2017. Amendments to the Health Databases Act are urgently needed, as it can only achieve the objective of the state programme, which includes top cancer diagnostics through effective implementation of screening programmes to ensure quality diagnostics and treatment of cancer and their monitoring, rehabilitation, palliative care for cancer patients. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Databases Act mainly governs the databases of Swit and Dora screening programmes. These are screening programmes for early detection of pre-cancer changes in the colon and the DNA and early detection of breast cancer. The Swit and Dora screening programmes, which are national programmes, do not yet have a legal basis for the Swit and Dora database, and therefore the information officer threatens to terminate, prohibit or collect data for these two programmes. Without databases, it is not possible to implement Sweet and Dora programmes. The screening programmes reveal pre-cancer changes and early forms of cancer and thus save lives. They also regulate the urgent changes to the Zora database, a screening programme for early detection of precancer changes and cervical cancer, as a new test method is being introduced. Changes are also introduced in the existing Register of Cancer of the Republic of Slovenia, which will allow monitoring of the quality of the treatment of individual cancers at the level of the individual operator, while at the same time updating the registration of cancers and direct monitoring of the incidence, prevalence and mortality of cancer in Slovenia. And lastly, a database for non-malignant rare diseases is introduced, allowing rare diseases to be registered and providing quality and safe diagnosis, treatment and treatment for children with these diseases. The registration of these diseases or patients is important and allows centralised diagnostics and treatment in national reference centres, which are linked to international centres for quality assurance. The adoption of the proposed law will help to improve the effectiveness of preventive health programmes in the area of early detection of cancer and consequently successful or timely treatment of individual types. In order to assess the effectiveness of screening, it is possible to link these programmes with cancer registers by law. In addition, better identification and treatment of rare non-lingual diseases and the provision of quality and endoprotetic treatment will be possible, so we will support the bill in the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u45	The text is given by the Desus Group, Mrs Maria Antonija Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Honourable representative of the government, honourable Members, Members of Parliament, everyone's welcome! We have yet to see the last government proposal on health in this turbulent mandate. It is a new law on databases in the field of health care, which is one of the rare laws prepared by the Ministry of Health, which received support without a vote at the meeting of the mother's labour body. This is mainly a technical law that we need, as the State Secretary has explained on the Committee, to develop information technology and to increase the need for health care in the field of cancer. With this novelty, we will therefore provide the legal basis for the functioning of the state screening programmes of Dora and Svit, the information upgrade of the Zora screening programme and the active registration of cancer in the state cancer register. If the novelty is adopted today, and I am not doubtful that it will allow for more detailed data on the quality of diagnostics and oncology-treated patients in clinical registers and the proper registration of test subjects from families burdened with hereditary cancer. Two new registers will also be introduced, namely the Register of Non-Liquid Diseases and the Register of Endoprotetics for the regular monitoring of services and the supervision of the quality of services. In the case of a register of endoprotetics, control of the materials used shall also be added. The Desus Group will unanimously support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u47	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. Since the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD to Articles 1 and 2 are substantively linked, we will discuss them together. I therefore put to the debate Articles 1 and 2 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 24th agenda. This concludes the 11th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 13. PERIOD OF THE DAY, IT IS FOR A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION LAW ON THE SLOVENIAN FILM CENTER, THE PUBLIC AGENCY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AFTER A PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Culture, who carries out the current business, Anton Persak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u48	Mr President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament. It's short for you, but for creators and film producers, it's a very important law. The existing law lays down the conditions within which producers who obtain a subsidy from the Slovenian Film Centre, public agencies, should be required to make and complete the film, slightly rigiden. It is a matter of stipulating that a contract should be concluded within a relatively short period of time following the decision and that the film should be completed within two years. In most cases, this deadline turns out to be completely unrealistic. A Slovenian film producer who generally receives about a third of the funding for film production, when he receives this decision, can actually start to raise the funds of other co-funders, generally foreign, which, according to tenders in other countries, is generally delayed, so it is not possible to start many times, let alone finish within two years. As a result, the producer and the Slovenian Film Centre are forced to conclude annexes to the film completion contracts, for which there is no basis in the law. For this reason, we propose to extend, on the one hand, the time limit for the conclusion of a contract to one year, because within one year it will be demonstrated whether funds will be available or not. If it turns out that it will not be possible to obtain them, then the Slovenian Film Centre does not need to conclude a contract and the project is postponed or dropped. At the same time, we allow contracts for those films that are difficult and for which it is clear in advance that they cannot be completed in two years (mainly for animated films longer than 24 minutes, which are physically impossible to complete in such a short time) and for those projects that should be played, to be documentary, which already presuppose a longer period of filming (especially for certain documentary films relating to certain processes, and these films have recently been made in Slovenia) to conclude four-year contracts, so that at least as much as a realistic deadline for the completion of the film. At the same time, the law allows the legal conclusion of annexes to contracts for those films that have two-year contracts, on the basis of some real reasons: if one of the co-funds, producers cancel the contract or because of some unforeseen circumstances that we might consider to be some kind of force majeure. That's basically the whole content of this law. As it is said, it is not extensive, but it is extremely important for Slovenian film production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u49	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Maria Antonija Kovacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u50	Again, thank you so much for your words and good bye to everyone. The Committee on Culture is at its 26th emergency session 3. 4. 2018 examined the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Slovenian Film Centre, a public agency of the Republic of Slovenia, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at the 122nd ordinary meeting of 12. 3. 2018 decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified procedure. In the light of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects, the proposed law has been examined by the Legislative and Legal Service and has made some comments to it and its representative has explained that the amendments tabled follow their opinion. She also gave her opinion to the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which supported the draft law and considered that it supported the efforts of the competent ministry to enable Slovenian film projects to be implemented and to justify budgetary financing in the completion of the project and its public broadcast. In the introduction, the bill was presented by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, Damjana Pečnik. The Committee then adopted, without discussion, amendments to the coalition groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u51	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Left Messenger Group, for her Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u52	In Levica we will support the law on supplementing the law on the Slovenian Film Centre, the public agency of the Republic of Slovenia. The extension of the deadlines for implementation from two to four years for individual types of animated and full-length documentary films makes sense because the practical production circumstances of these film genres are such that these films simply require more time. At the same time, the conditions of cooperation between the Slovenian Film Centre and the producer are changing, which is linked to uncertainty in foreign co-productions. However, this law, which contains only a small technical or administrative correction, is an opportunity for me to briefly mention two other related issues, first of all, what is the situation of the film with us and what its future is like. For example, if we look at RTV Slovenia. As early as 2010, he financed the production of seven feature films, which is now completely neglected. Slovenia is not a tail by the amount of funds allocated to film production, even compared to the countries of the former Yugoslavia. Less than Slovenia devotes only Kosovo to the film. For example, neighbouring Croatia invests almost EUR 10 million per year for film making, and we are talking about the number 4 million. And secondly, there were too many such novelties in this mandate. In fact, the Ministry of Culture has not prepared any amendments to the legislation that would solve many of the problems accumulated. Fortunately, at least for the cultural sphere, this mandate is over. But that culture will not only play so that, say, a third of the self-employed will not live below the poverty risk threshold, we will need a different government. One who takes culture seriously for starters. We will support the new law on the Slovenian Film Centre in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u53	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Mrs Vlasta Wait.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u54	Thanks again for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! The main objective of the Act on Supplements to the Act on the Slovenian Film Centre, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, is to introduce an exception to the extension of the deadline for the completion of films in accordance with the prescribed provision for completion within two years of the signature of the contract. The exception applies only to animated films and feature-length documentary films, which require a longer duration of implementation due to thematic specificity, as it is a long-term process of making animated film or a longer period of realisation is based on substantive reasons for full-time documentary films. In particular, in cases where there is no immediate signature of the contract following a positive co-financing decision, statistics show that the completion and co-financing of the film is extended to three calendar years, leading to an increase in the scope of the over-expenditure of the following financial years and a reduction in the available resources for new calls. This reduces the cost-effectiveness of the management of budgetary resources and the efficiency of the implementation of the Slovenian Film Centre's legislative tasks, as distribution and public representation projects are concluded by a delay or longer period than would otherwise be necessary. In view of all the above, the law provides for an improvement in the form of setting out legal exceptions for a longer period of completion of projects, as well as more specific measures to limit the time limit for the conclusion of contracts and annexes. This will regulate the actual state of implementation of co-production projects where producers are required to obtain funds for the implementation of co-financed projects from several different financial sources, which are not offered by other foreign film and financial institutions at the same time as the Slovenian Film Centre, so they must adapt to the tender deadline. Since the bill introduces a meaningful solution, we will support it in the Modern Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Ms Anja Bah Žibert will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u56	Good-bye! Among the main tasks of the Slovenian Film Centre, we are talking about a public agency, among other things, concern for quality growth and the promotion of creativity in the film and audiovisual fields is recorded. The Centre shall also decide on the selection of projects financed by the Agency. The point we are considering now is intended to supplement the Slovenian Film Centre Act. The proposed amendment intervenes in the deadlines for the completion of projects and in the elements of contractual obligations. Among other things, the amendment of the law from two to four years is intended to extend the time for the realisation of individual types of animated and feature-length documentary films. In short, when we talk about this novel, we are also talking about the use of public funds in the field of film and audiovisual activities in Slovenia. In other words, any project selected by the Slovenian Film Centre is financed by the pockets of taxpayers. If we were to be honest about all of this and have a predominant knowledge of who the mercenary is, we should find a nice film on every film or audiovisual activity that is being set on fire by the Slovenian Film Centre. This would make it harder for the chosen creators to find excuses in the audience, and it would certainly make tax collectors feel better about the successful ones, knowing that their money was not used in vain. In any event, all of this would be accompanied by a shadowy responsibility that is now in the background, and we rarely hear of it. That's exactly what's important. In the end, it is particularly important whether the use of taxpayers' wallets was justified and whether the Slovenian Film Centre behaves and acts as a good master. Is the added value in the fact that the director of the Slovenian Film Centre is created with the sexual structure of film makers, is it not more important to deal with the criteria for choice and in particular not to divide the creators into first and second-class? We will not support the proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party. From now on, however, the former Minister of the Desus quota would have expected other measures, more important solutions when it comes to Slovenian film, and discerning creators who were forced to leave Slovenia, and now reap the success of foreign land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u58	Your Honor! For the last time, thank you so much for your word and for everyone's nice greeting. We have before us the last draft law of the Ministry of Culture in this expiring mandate of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Slovenian Film Centre of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed amendment complements two articles and is an administrative measure that will relieve the creators of feature animated and documentary films. The adoption of the novel will thus extend the deadline for the completion of the above-mentioned films, which, in order to be specific, need longer time to realize. Complementing the law will also entail contractual obligations regarding co-financing. In the Desus Group, we are aware of the problem which plagues Slovenian producers, so we will support the proposal for a new law because of rational arguments or solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, very nice to meet you! The production of the film is a creative, organisational and financially demanding and long-term process. The current situation in the field of film production makes this process even more difficult in Slovenia. Among the reasons for the unenviable position of Slovenian film creativity are the modest co-financing of projects by the Slovenian Film Centre. This generally achieves less than half of the resources needed. The inhibitory factor is also the obsolete equipment of the national technical base, which is Viba film. This one has a majority with outdated techniques. In written circumstances, producers are increasingly making it more difficult to complete the project in a timely manner. Although the two-year legal provision for the completion of the film is appropriate in a regulated situation, as stated above, unfortunately these are not the case today. The satisfaction of the successful call for the Slovenian Film Centre is soon becoming a concern of how to raise the necessary funds to complete the project. Slovenian producers are looking for an opportunity to cooperate with foreign co-producers, participate in different calls across Europe, and they are also trying to find funds with always too few sponsors. Additional problems arise when foreign co-producers deviate from cooperation or when their co-financing is subsequently reduced, where there are different funding deadlines for different institutions, mainly abroad, when there are technical difficulties in the final processing of projects and so on. Thus, the situation in the field of film production is far from exemplary. That is why in the Group of Social Democrats we support any improvement in the normative environment in which Slovenian film makers operate. This is how we welcome the proposal for a new law on the Slovenian Film Centre, which came from the warnings of the umbrella institution in this area. By adopting the proposal, the deadline for the completion of the project shall be extended to four years, but only to a genre or content which, due to the specifics of production and production, takes longer to realize. This is an animated film and a full-time documentary that requires multi-annual monitoring of events due to its content. For them, the two-year marriage period is clearly too short even with possible sufficient resources, since it is a long and extremely demanding process of production. The proposal for a new law on the Slovenian Film Centre is certainly welcome, taking into account the legality of some genres and allowing for the consideration of objective circumstances affecting the deadline for completion of projects. That is why we will support him in the Group of Social Democrats. However, we expect that the future government, regardless of its direction, will strive to improve the production capacity of the national technical base Viba film. Unless otherwise, with the appropriate addition of the so-called Cultural Euro Act, where it is considered appropriate to supplement the possibility of updating the technical equipment of the institution, which is the founder of the Republic of Slovenia, among the projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u61	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, the decision on the draft law will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the agenda. I'm putting an end to the 13th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 24. At the end of the day, this is for a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Games of Good Luck. At its first extraordinary meeting on 27 March 2018, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Gambling be re-elected before the announcement. In order to explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Boris Šuštaršič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice-President, honourable Members! The undeniable fact is that the area of gambling in Slovenia has been well regulated and functioning for a long time and there is also some reasonable relationship between the financing of funds obtained for good purposes between sports, disabled and humanitarian organisations. This proposal, in spite of various indications, in fact introduces an anarchic situation in this area, since it is no longer a primary public interest, this is the true financing of desirable social activities, but opens the door to intrusions into this area of private financial capital. It's not some imaginary vision, it's already happened to us in the field of casinos. When we scattered Slovenian casinos, which worked well, into playrooms, it happened exactly what we are afraid of now in the liberalisation of sports betting. The veto itself is actually based on two facts. The first fact is that the public interest determined by the State in this area is neglected. The second reason, however, is that this bill, in fact, has in a rather subtle way abolished the 10% happiness tax, which has in fact caused a disruption in the financing of disabled humanitarian and sports organisations since 2017. What does that mean in practice? In practice, this means that such public funds intended for athletes are no longer taxed with a 10% burden, while those funds used for disabled persons and humanitarian actions continue to be defined by a 10% tax. I think that this is in conflict with Article 14 of the Slovenian Constitution and, of course, there are other reasons. Therefore, we believe that the veto is justified and should also be an initiative to ensure that the Slovenian government, after the elections are formed, examine this whole area and, if there is a need for changes, additions or anything else, this should be arranged in a comprehensive way, which will ensure that the good results that are now taking place are maintained or further developed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The request was addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. In order to present the opinion of the Committee, I give the floor to the president of Mrs Urska Ban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello all colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the government! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 92nd emergency meeting. 4. 2018 as a parent working body, considered the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling, submitted to the National Assembly by Member Branko Zorman and adopted by the National Assembly at its 39th meeting, 20th session. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Committee received a request from the State Council, an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, a letter from the Mountain Rescue Service, a letter from the National Council of Disability Organisations and an opinion from the Government. Representatives of the State Council, the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. At the meeting of the Committee, a member of the Committee of the Desus Group announced obstruction for this item of the agenda for himself and for the members of the Committee from their parliamentary group, pursuant to Article 65(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. In the introduction, the rapporteur of the State Council, on behalf of the applicant, explained the request of the State Council for re-decision on the law and presented the key arguments. He stressed that the reasons for the request for re-decision were similar to those in the past, since it was a misunderstanding of such a way of solving the problem of classical gambling and a reminder of the inappropriateness or inadequacy of the accepted tax on happiness years ago. In his debate, the bill's proponent was politicized by certain statements by the veto proposer and presented different arguments in the direction of urgency and appropriateness in the adoption of the bill, which saves only part of the classic gambling, these are online sports betting, in the rest of the classic games, especially those organised by the Lottery of Slovenia. The representative of the Ministry of Finance presented a written opinion, stressing that the proposal for a law on partial resolution of the problem is not supported as such. He reiterated his arguments when adopting the bill itself and highlighted the need for some serious analysis of the appropriateness of the way in which online gambling taxes are collected. In addition, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained in the supplementary explanation of the opinion that the State Council's arguments in the request for re-decision relate to questions relating to the assessment of the substantive suitability of the arrangements to which the service cannot be defined, as they go beyond the scope of the tasks imposed on the Service by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The views of the members and members of the Committee on the appropriateness of the draft law were different in the debate. It was also pointed out that if only one player would come under the tax jurisdiction of Slovenia with this bill, the aim would be achieved. Sport Lottery will not be abolished by this law, but will be suspended under competitive conditions, as will all other organisers who will apply for a concession for sports betting. If there is no interest, the situation in terms of tax inflows and concessions will not change. Following the discussion, the Committee, with a majority of the votes of all members, is 12 in favour and 1 in favour. adopted the opinion that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u65	Thank you very much. In order to explain my opinion, I am giving the bill to Mr Branko Zorman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, citizens, citizens! Events surrounding the adoption of the gambling law have revealed a lobbying network of those who have been leading the game for decades in most areas of our development, including sports betting, which are an important source of funding for various social groups. So we have a serious problem. Those who are supposed to work for the benefit of sport, for which they have also received public authority, this is a concession, have adapted the system for their own personal purposes and this is a classic example of systemic corruption. As is evident from the media, it is clear that those who are touched by the law, namely athletes, sports organisations, foundations for financing sports organisations, support the law, even FIHO supported the law. Those, among them, are also the veto promoter, who are not critically dependent on betting money, but oppose and mislead the public with catastrophic predictions of the harmfulness of the law. The fact is, with all the means lobbyist has been running the private company Sportna Lotterija, d. d., their mercenaries and the lobbyist partners who live at their expense. Among other things, political parties involved in running this company. As an example, Mr Kolar, the President of the Sports Authority of Sport Lottery, is a career and active member of the SD party, circles around disability organisations, leased pianist agencies, associated media, and ultimately entrepreneurs who benefit from this. Because I don't have much time, let me just point out a few facts that speak for themselves. All the information on the law is derived from clear and verifiable sources, based on the activity data of Sport Lottery, Fursa, data from other countries, the European Union and specialised international institutions, and therefore indications on the questionability of these data are designed by the design of those who wish to protect the current situation by all means. Let me point out once again: no one will come to the betting market in Slovenia because of the law. Those interested in this market are already here and are operating in a grey area of unregulated legislation. Saying someone's coming is irrelevant. The law only regulates that others can register and start paying taxes if they do not register and we finally establish a legal basis for their prosecution. The share of playing abroad is also an issue that wants to be blurred. As early as 2006, FSO and FIHO, in their lawsuit against Bwin, claimed that 75% of Slovenian players played abroad via the internet. This was claimed on the basis of the internal data of the Sports Lottery, and today it is the opposite: it is no longer a problem. It is important that the proposal vetoes its lower stakes abroad on the basis of a study commissioned by the Sports Lottery, i.e. the company that lobbies against the law. If that wasn't worrying, it'd be funny already. The drafter of the veto, who also sent lobbyist letters to the Members, justifies his arguments against the law with articles in the media, including in the Dnevnik Journal. This is in a newspaper that began publishing unilateral articles against the law at the time when extensive advertisements of the E-Stage appeared in this magazine. The proposed veto also argues that the large foreign organisers have not indicated anything to enter the Slovenian market. That's a lie. This is what Bwin stated repeatedly for the minutes in the FSO and FIHO proceedings against him, which is clear from the Court’s judgment. Representatives of the sports public also told their press conference two days ago that potential sponsors had already contacted them. It is also important that Mr Šuštaršič is the leader in the pursuit of the law. It is said that the law will have catastrophic consequences for the financing of disability organisations, while it is necessary to know that FIHO receives only 5% of all revenue from concessions from sports betting, out of 19 million only EUR 900 000. Therefore, the claims about the threatened stability of funding for disabled and humanitarian organisations are purely a misappropriation of the public. The law is therefore based on comparable arrangements in the European Union, based on the guidance of the European Commission and, above all, begins to regulate the areas in which we now have severe anomalies. The law we are about to re-vote today is an appropriate result of what we committed ourselves to at the beginning of our term of office. Our mission and basic leadership should be to work for the common good and to remedy the mistakes that hinder the development of our country. By adopting this law, we will eliminate the systemic anomaly, which cripples sufficient financing for sport and prevents the normal functioning of sports organisations. With your vote to confirm this law, you will also contribute to the additional revenue earmarked for humanitarian and disability organisations. By voting in favour of this law, you will also express clearly the disagreement over the corruption that prevails in this area. The self-proclaimed elite, which is fueled by the money of Slovenian sport, would, as you have noticed, do everything possible to avoid changes. When this law is adopted in the National Assembly today, this will give a clear signal to citizens and citizens, voters, that they can also cut down corruption practices in Slovenia and ensure progress and prosperity for all. The law is supported both by the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations and by individual sports organisations and sports workers. Sport is the foundation of a healthy society, a good society. Your vote means a vote for the good of the citizens and a vote against it means allowing corruption to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u67	Thank you very much. In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Sashi Jazbec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u68	Dear Members and Members! The Government supports the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the adopted law because the law does not regulate gambling in its entirety. There were several attempts at a comprehensive approach within the government's current mandate, but they could not be implemented. This does not mean, however, that partial, thoughtless and flawed solutions, such as those adopted and which only deal with the field of bets, must be agreed upon. In view of the limited scope, the law, except for betting operators, does not touch on the abolition of the requirement for the establishment of a concessionaire in the Republic of Slovenia, which is not in line with the European legal order, nor on the removal of administrative barriers when it comes to reducing the number of regulated professions, nor on the ownership of companies which have a concession to arrange special gambling in the casino and where it is necessary to remove restrictions on the ownership of these companies and thus to follow the Country Capital Investment Management Strategy. The Government believes that it is more reasonable to approach comprehensive legal solutions based on previous analyses, preferably in the context of the preparation of a new strategy for the development of gambling, which would serve as a basis for policy management and the adoption of measures in the area of the adaptation of gambling in the next decade. As part of the preparation of this strategy, the challenge of an effective regulation on the conditions of the rich offer of online gambling should be addressed mainly in sports betting and analyses should therefore also be carried out to provide reliable assessments of the number of players playing in foreign sports betting providers and assessments of Slovenian players' payments to foreign players. On such a basis, it could be more confident to consider how to regulate the area of bets in order to achieve the aim of protecting Slovenian sports betting players while at the same time strengthening funding for foundations financed by concession fees. According to the Government, the assessment on which the novelty is based is not sufficient basis for this type of serious consideration. The proposed arrangement for the entry of new concessionaires into the market does not necessarily mean an increase in the revenue received in the Republic of Slovenia by both foundations financed by concession fees. Potential new concessionaires would be expected to offer better quotas when entering the legal market in the initial phase, which means higher profits and payments, which reduce the base for taxes and concession fees, which is the difference between payments and bets. In view of the stated purpose of the adopted market opening arrangement, the relatively high entry fee of EUR 500 000 is incomprehensible, which is significantly more than that adopted by Denmark at the time of the opening of the market, about EUR 35,000 with almost 3 times the size of the market, which was also often mentioned as an example by the new law's proponent. The question is how many bidders would choose to make such an investment also taking into account the high tax burden of gambling in the Republic of Slovenia. In view of the above, there is doubt that the law will not achieve the objectives set for the increase in concession fees. Inconceivable solutions can even lead to a situation where one monopolistic online betting operator will simply replace a new monopoly that will pay a high entry fee. We must also point out that the technical regulation has been adopted by law, which means that the amendment should already be submitted to the European Commission in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Directive laying down the procedure for the collection of information in the field of technical rules and rules for information society services prior to adoption. In accordance with that Directive, each Member State shall notify the European Commission of all proposals for technical regulations. For these reasons, the Government opposes the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, all those who accompany this meeting. Gambling is linked to corruption in a broader sense, linked to pressures, to lobbying and networks that push for changes in legislation. The government's job is to regulate the area. If we look at trends, we see how many monopolies are being put in place, more and more people are fleeing to other areas. If we put in place a very strong fiscal policy, this means that players are being cast elsewhere into illegal markets. If we increase repressive measures, it means there are more corruption risks on the other hand. If we analyze it all together, it's our job to change the model of our relationship to gambling. If we follow modern European countries, we see that these have moved from a penal society, it is from a penal policy, to a completely different regulation, namely that the plural work of all ministries is the goal both of employment and of working with young people and of sport and of all other segments. So, more ministries have to be involved. What is the purpose of such an approach? To move from a criminal law approach to an economic approach, which is modern measures, which means collecting taxes, controlling tax collection, increasing control of both players, casinos and everyone else and protecting young people. The proposal before us follows the measures, which means that more competition means eliminating monopolies and means what they stand for in Europe. Avoid the outflow of players to foreign or black markets. Besides, we have proper control. Comparative matters with the European Union are being regulated and it is easier to control assets. On the other hand, if the state has already released state control and regulation and has opened up the market, it is only right that there is no monopoly on this market. And it is only right to allow competition and to finally move Slovenia from a novagal society characterised by a criminal law approach to a new approach based on an economy, finances that are adequately controlled and regulated. For the reason stated in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we support the law as we support the first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mag. Dušan Verbič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Members, Members of Parliament, Secretary of State, welcome, very nice greeting! Today we are again deciding on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling by the veto of the State Council. The National Council notes that the amended regulation in the field of sports betting will not have the announced effects but will worsen the situation in the otherwise regulated field of gambling in Slovenia. According to the State Council, legal liberalisation will now have a negative impact on the financing of disability, humanitarian and even sports organisations under concession benefits. The Council of State also pointed out in the draft veto that the law abolishes the legal form of ownership of the organizer of the bet. According to the new report, this may be a family enterprise or a single entrepreneur, which significantly increases the possibility of misuse of money laundering, results management and corruption. Throughout the legislative process, the government questioned the proposed solutions to the law. Thus, it considers that the assessment of revenues from sports betting in the case of several concessionaires depends on a number of variables. First of all, if we compare these duties with other European countries, we would apply for concessions in the Republic of Slovenia, in the event of a relatively high tax and concession tax burden in the Republic of Slovenia. In the event of the entry of new concessionaires into the sports betting market, according to the Government, this would mean, in their more competitive offer, a reallocation of existing betting players who are now playing the Sports lottery to new bidders, and given the size of the market, the number of players is not expected to increase significantly. It should also be added that a more competitive offer in sports betting means better quotas and higher profits and payments, which reduces the base for taxes and concession fees, which is the difference between payments and bets. This could, in the view of the Government, reduce the tax and concession fees received by the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled Organisations and the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations. The adoption of the law in the opinion of the Government will also not achieve the objectives set to increase concession fees. On the contrary. The government even believes that poorly thought-out solutions can even lead to a situation where one monopolistic online betting operator, which is now obvious, simply replaces a new monopoly that will be able to pay a high entry fee. On the other hand, in recent days, some representatives of sports organisations, especially team sports, and athletes have reported that they would like to see such changes in the law despite these conflicting opinions. Dear Members and Members! On the one hand, in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will, on the other hand, take a decision on the draft law, the Government, the State Council, the National Council of Disability Organisations, the Olympic Committees and certain sports associations and athletes and other actors who have pointed out their opinions through the media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u74	Mr. President-in-Office. Dear Secretary, colleague, colleague! As in the second reading of the proposal to amend the law on gambling, we will support the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. We'll support him for a number of reasons. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that a proposal for amendments to the gambling law should be made by the government within a four-year mandate, but unfortunately it has not done so. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the proposal to amend the gambling law eliminates the monopolistic situation, which we always support in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which advocates a market economy. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the proposal to amend the gambling law means higher revenues in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the amendment to the bill on gambling also means more money for sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished guests on the balcony! The Novela that we are deciding today is formally called the Law on Change of Games for Happiness. But it could also be called the Accident Games Act. In the opinion of the proposaler, I would stress that the novelty we are re-deciding should allow for better financing of the Sport Foundation and the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations, but that is not the case in our firm conviction. In its opinion, the Government submitted figures, objective figures and facts which clearly show that concessional levies for FSOs only fell sharply in 2014 after the introduction of the so-called crisis intervention law on happiness taxes. Then the funds began to rise again and are now practically at the same level, at the same level as in 2013. If we believe, not only to finance, to government representatives, but to objective facts and figures that do not lie, it is not so, and it is lying to a proposaler who says something completely different in his fictitious calculations. Also with regard to non-compliance with the European acquis, last December the European Commission informed the European Commission clearly and loudly that it was satisfied with the clarifications on regulation in our betting market and completed procedures in December to identify possible infringements. So b. p., no comments. If we look at the perspectives of both sports and humanitarian organisations in the Desus Group, we see the problem in particular that the Lucky Tax still applies. The FIHO Council found in its public letter that it would therefore have to reduce the amount of monthly grants to disabled and humanitarian organisations. This seems to us all the more than good, since it is 27 disabled and over 80 humanitarian organisations that are implementing vital social programmes for almost 300,000 users together. Even more bizarrely, it seems to us in the light of the resolution of this law on games of chance that, before the day before, the previous day, in fact, with the consent of all Members and Members, the law on the social inclusion of persons with disabilities has been passed, has received tremendous support. We also supported the Personal Assistance Act. All these laws, which tange directly or indirectly to tens of thousands of people with disabilities, are proud of the National Assembly because they have added value to all the people who are being Tangled. How are disability organisations financed? They are also financed, not exclusively, but also by revenue from concession fees. And what are you now doing, or will you be doing, to all those who support the proposal or amendment of this law? Breaking down, breaking down, destroying existing funding on the basis of some imaginary calculations, which in no way endure any, I stress, any serious judgment. I hope that at least every once in a while you've opened newspapers and that you've read recently what it's like to do with the calculations and projections offered by the proponent. Of course, you can find the appropriate excuses offered in part by the lawmaker himself, that all of this is manipulation, lusting certain people. The cripples? Don't be insulting. The answer to this way of understanding the world – let me ask you how those who support this law again will look at the people who accompany us on the balcony and follow us in many other locations, in the eyes when you realize that all these assumptions are wrong, maybe even born, and people living from these resources will be faced with a lack of them. Listen to the National Council of Disabled Organizations, listen to the Mountain Rescue Association or listen to just one of the individuals, representatives of disabled organisations. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, we Members are not directly dependent on these funds, but there are tens of thousands of our citizens who depend on these funds for life and day. Be, let's be so empathetic and so social, sensitive. We are in Desus, so we will not support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u78	Thank you, Vice President, a nice greeting to everyone. We have already voted against the law in Levica for the first time, and that is how we will do it today. While the applicant refers to public interest, in reality the liberalisation of sports betting, as proposed, would benefit only private companies which, under the current legislation, are not allowed to adjust sports attitudes. On the one hand, the proposer assures us that after the liberalisation of sports betting Slovenians currently playing abroad would start playing with new domestic providers, but the proposed law does not limit the playing of Slovenians in any way to foreign suppliers. Foreign providers will have no reason to pay a concession fee in Slovenia because they will be able to continue collecting bets free of charge via foreign websites. Liberalisation will not thus increase Slovenia's budget revenues, but will only continue to allow private companies to earn part of the stakes currently realised by the Sport lottery. At its previous meeting, the proposer also explained that he was seeking to increase the income of disabled organisations. But the National Council of Disability Organisations opposes his proposal. The proposer says he is also seeking to increase tax revenues, but according to his initial proposal, the profits from sports betting would not be taxed at all as gambling. The proposaler talks a lot about public interest, but in the end he would only benefit from the private interest of companies that would like to organise sports betting in Slovenia. The position of the Left on sports betting is as follows. Sports betting is a highly unproductive social activity, which is also highly linked to the risk of money laundering, corruption and other abuses. This activity could only be carried out by public undertakings under strict supervision. In this way, profits would return to communities instead of privatising. Sport lottery is not a public company, but is owned by state-owned companies and sports associations. What the proposer calls the elimination of the monopoly is therefore nothing more than the privatisation of the new area and, of course, we are opposed to it in the Levica. The problems of players who play abroad and do not pay taxes in Slovenia simply cannot be solved through market liberalisation in Slovenia. A solution could take place at European Union level in such a way as to establish a similar arrangement as was applicable to deposits of foreign nationals in Austria. So, the country where the gambling organiser is registered must recover a high tax and charge part of that tax to the country from which the player comes. Of course, it is very unlikely that the President of the Commission, Jean Claude Juncker, as President of the Luxembourg Government, would have supported this very much in helping multinationals with tax evasion. All I'd say is this. Cerar's government has already liberalised two activities in this mandate: chimney and funeral. As we have seen, this has not benefited citizens and citizens, but mainly private providers of such services. I hope that the liberalisation of such non-productive activities as the collection of sports betting will not be one of the last things you will do in this mandate. If you do not want to listen to us in Levica, listen at least to the disabled organizations who will eventually bear the consequences of such liberalisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The re-decision on that law will be made in half an hour in the framework of the vote. I hereby end the 24th agenda item and the 60th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 1 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u80	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before proceeding to the voting procedure, I would like to inform you that the State Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 24 and 25 items on the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Wildlife and Hunting by Short-Term Procedure We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 8 of the agenda. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Act on Recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for Business Excellence by Short Procedure We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 9 of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present and 70 were voted in favour and no one opposed. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude the 10th item of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on databases in the field of healthcare following a reduced procedure. I am continuing with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 19 April 2018. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD Group to Article 1. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 75 votes in favour, and no one opposed. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 77 votes in favour, and no one opposed. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly adopted the amendment to Articles 1 and 2 of the amended law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to these articles. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that due to amendments adopted in other proceedings, the bill would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 77 votes in favour, and no one opposed. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude the 11th item of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Slovenian Film Centre, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 60 votes in favour and 18 votes in favour. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the 11th agenda. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and on the establishment of their areas by emergency procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda. We continue with the interrupted 2nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Termination of the Environmental Protection Zone Act and the Epicontinental Belt of the Republic of Slovenia following an urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 2 of the agenda. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Nature Conservation Act, following an urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 3 of the agenda. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Personal Assistance following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 72 votes against 1. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 4 of the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on short-term scholarships. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 5 of the agenda. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Employment, Self-employment and the work of foreigners after a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 26. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 6 of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Security Benefits after a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the leftist Group, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u81	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. In Levica, we are already working on the whole mandate to raise the amount of monetary social assistance to at least the level of the calculated basic short-term cost of living in 2009. This amount is EUR 385. EUR 385 is the amount that is expected to provide basic housing, food and clothing according to the 2009 estimates for the person in that country. Anything less than that does not allow for short-term survival, let alone talk about car, whitening apartments, insurance, culture, other expenses. We will therefore support the marriage, but once again I would like to highlight who we are helping with this. In Slovenia there are 50,000 recipients of social assistance, of which 36,000 are single persons, not families, but single persons, unemployed, whose only income is social assistance. Among them are a lady on Planet TV, aged 31, who has only been dependent on social assistance for six years because of mental illness. Since this is not enough for her to survive, she helps with the extra income by begging. Then you can follow people's stories every week at Checked, Weeknik and other shows. For example, I was alone in contact with a lady from the White Country who is 57 years old, has 30 years of working age, is not employed because she is in such a region and does not have any additional experience or education because she has been in a working relationship all the time. She has no conditions for disability pension, although she has regular depression and other mental problems that have arisen in the face of poverty, but she is dependent on social assistance and does not have the money to bleach the apartment that would cost her a thousand 800 euros, nor can she get credit for it, nor can she get an increase in the limit on the bank card, nor should she get any other benefits because it would have been cut off from social assistance. Voting against this law means tearing these people away from Euro88. Instead of €385 you will be voting against this law, people such as these two cases, and in Slovenia close to €50,000, you will cut 88 euros and leave them on a life of 297 euros a month. Try to survive on your own with this amount over the month if you can. We will, of course, support the law in Levic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u82	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Saša Tabaković.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u83	Mr President, thank you for saying so. In the SMC Group, we will support the bill, so we will vote in favour of the law. The main changes in the novels under consideration provide for a higher basic amount of minimum income in order to increase the social security margin mainly for single persons and for couples without children. The reason is that the majority of recipients of social assistance who are most affected by this increase are single and therefore are most often exposed to severe poverty. The fact is that statistical calculations of the minimum cost of living are now at the level of €441, and we are still discussing with this law the amount that is below this limit, so it would be rude to say that support to this law is any political bidding or pre-election candy. I fully agree, or in the Group of Members, we fully agree that work is of value. Work is a value, but it's not a value in itself. Work is a value where it is also properly paid. Therefore, I find it somewhat inappropriate that, with the various political statements that we have witnessed in the past days, we are somehow perfunctoryly swindling the mentality of the people, that the person who works for the minimum wage takes away the minimum amount that someone who does not have a job receives from the mouth. If this amount is too high for anyone, I wonder for whom, and the fact is that it is a civil duty for the State to provide work, and it is also a civil duty to take care of the most vulnerable. As we say, we will support the bill in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u84	We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 22. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 7 of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda, this is by re-declaring the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling. We are moving on to a re-decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, the majority of the members of the assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. A self-explanation of the vote, Mr Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would say that this law is supported by all those involved in sport, the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations, individual sports associations, athletes, sports workers. The fear of a proposaler knowing that disability funds will be at risk is completely unnecessary. The whole FIHO, from which Mr Šuštersič's organisation receives funds, generates only 5% of its revenues from concessions, from sports betting. Only 5% of 19 million EUR 900 000 gets FIHO. On the other hand, the FSO is heavily dependent on these funds, as it generates 50% of all these funds from concessions arising from the adaptation of sports betting. Even if bets were banned today, but of course there is no talk about it, FIHO would be at EUR 900 000. Of course that's not gonna happen. The sports lottery will work further, but there will also be foreign organisers who will finally start paying concession fees and taxes in this country. They're not doing this today because we have such a systemic anomaly that this law eliminates. In 2014, when I came into politics, and I assume that a lot of people here came into politics to do something good for this country to remove all those barriers that make development in this country impossible. I came here for this purpose, too. A few weeks ago, our President also resigned as Prime Minister for reasons of resignation due to the old forces. These old forces are still very active in the Sports Lottery and the circle around them. Because this marriage moves into their comfort zone [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u86	Time. A self-explanation of the vote, Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u87	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I must say that I agree with the proposaler that it is good to do something. But after four years of finding that I'm going to do something good in this society for the past fourteen days, there's also no particular argument in favour of this law. But I must say, I must admit, what he said was that the lobbying circles that defend but the lobbying circles that attack this existing law and propose a new law were exposed, because the law is so flawed that it does not withstand criticism. And it's very simple, we have a pool where there's water, maybe it's not full, it's half full, but we're jumping into a pool where there's no water. I'll vote against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u88	We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 26. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 26.]] I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude the 24th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 25. At the end of the day, these are mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the examination of the Proposal for an election to a judicial function in the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Kranj. The Council of Justice submitted proposals to the National Assembly for the election of the Magi. Tina Omejc and Mag. Vesne Ravnik Koprivec in a judicial capacity in the District Court of Kranj. In order to further explain the proposals, I give the floor, on behalf of the Court of Justice, to the Secretary-General of the Magi Council. Ionica Marflak Trontel.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u89	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thirty-three candidates applied for the invitation to tender, of which seven withdrew their candidacy during the course of the procedure. The Council of Justice also conducted this procedure in three stages, first of which checked the fulfilment of the tendering conditions of the candidates, then carried out an assessment of their suitability, taking into account the final opinion of the President of the District Court in Kranj, their previous work experience following a legal examination of 5 years or more, and the average of the evaluations during the study and the legal examination of more than 8 years. In accordance with those criteria, he held an oral interview with 15 candidates at the third stage. Allow me to introduce the proposed candidate briefly. Mag. Tina Omejc graduated from the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana in 2005 with an average score of 9.13. For her excellent academic success, the law school gave her a special recognition. She was in charge of her postgraduate work. The legal examination was carried out in 2009 with an average score of 8.33. At the University of Cambridge, Queens' College of Law, she obtained the title of Master of Science in 2007. After a legal examination, she worked at the District Court in Ljubljana as a professional associate, where she worked in an unfair and legacy department. During her employment, she worked for several months as a practitioner in the Office of the Advocate General in the Court of Justice of the European Union. As of December 2010, she was employed at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia as a professional associate, where she is still employed and working in the Economic Department. The outstanding quality of its work is confirmed by the former Supreme and Constitutional Judge and the President of the Supreme Court, Franc Testen, who considered it competent, informed lawyer, who fulfils all the criteria for the successful performance of the judicial service as far as possible. Mag. Vesna Ravnik Koprivec graduated from the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana in 2002 with an average score of 9.38. For her excellent academic success, the Faculty of Law gave her a special recognition. The legal examination was carried out in 2005 with an average score of 9. At the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana she obtained the title of Master of Science in 2014. Following her legal examination, she worked at the District Court in Radovljica as a professional associate, where she worked in various legal areas and prepared draft decisions, provisional orders, judgments and other matters under the orders of the judges in the enforcement department in the context of criminal acts and in the hereditary, unfair and just field. She turned out to be very self-sufficient, above-average professional and professional. During her service in the District Court, she prepared two initiatives to assess the constitutionality of the law. Since 2010, she has been employed in the Constitutional Court as a consultant. The work is mainly carried out in the field of criminal law. He also works with his rich knowledge to draw up opinions from other legal exercises. It is characterized by an average knowledge of the rules and domestic and foreign case law. She advocated a master's job in the field of civil law. All of this demonstrates its universality and high expertise in several legal areas. The extraordinary quality of its work is also confirmed by the recommendation made by the President of the Constitutional Court, who mag. Vesno Ravnik Koprivec evaluates as a high professional and professional and qualified to perform an excellent judicial function. Thus, an integrated assessment of the expertise, experience and ability of candidates who applied for the invitation to tender led the Council of Justice to conclude that they were Mag. Tina Omejc and mag. Vesna Ravnik Koprivec is the most suitable candidate for the available courts and therefore proposes them to the National Assembly for election to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Kranj. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u90	The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that will elect a mag to serve in the judicial capacity of the District Court in the District Court in Kranj. Tina Omejc. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that will elect a mag to serve in the judicial capacity of the District Court in the District Court in Kranj. Vesna Ravnik Koprivec. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 2. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the discharge proposal from the role of Governor of Banka Slovenije. The Governor of Banka Slovenije, Dr Boštjan Jazbec, is in accordance with Article 39, paragraph 1, of the Bank of Slovenia Act by letter of 28. 3. 2018 proposed to the National Assembly that by 30. 4. 2018 Resolve as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia as it will no longer fulfil the conditions under Article 38 of the Bank of Slovenia Act. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the Left Group. The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u91	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. If the Governor of Banka Slovenije Jazbec had resigned due to overpaid bank rehabilitation, his dismissal would have been supported. But Governor Jazbec has resigned to advance to an even better-paid job, and if you support it, you will spend 60,000 euros in retirement. Someone who should be responsible for millions of damages in the resolution of the banking system will thus be rewarded with high severance and promotion to an even higher position. To remind you of his sins: the cost of bank rehabilitation was over €5 billion. 3.2 billion of these were spent on recapitalisation directly directed by Banka Slovenije, Boštjan Jazbec, who agreed to the European Central Bank and European Commission dictatorships that used Slovenia as an experimental rabbit. We have forgotten that the estimates of bank deficits involving Banka Slovenije differed by EUR 1 billion. The Bank of Slovenia has chosen a more expensive estimate, as only on the basis of the choice of a more expensive estimate could the small shareholders of NKBM be relieved and, on the basis of this assessment, the banks were recapitalised with substantially more public funds than was necessary. This unnecessary public debt will be repaid for years. As a result of the suspicious operations of Banka Slovenije, Governor Jazbec is in a pre-trial process that is not yet completed. However, the systematic investigation into bank rehabilitation promised by the coalition in the coalition contract was not initiated because the government had not drawn up an appropriate law. Nor did the coalition adopt a law allowing small shareholders of NKBM to sue for damages. Instead, the Government of the European Council agreed with the appointment of the former Governor of the Jazbec Bank Rescue Committee. Boštjan Jazbec, who should be on the mourning bench today, is on his way to an even better job, with 60,000 euros of relief in a suitcase. We're not going to support such a deal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u92	We are done with the presentation of the Group's position. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision by which I discharge Dr. Boštjan Jazbec as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia of 30. 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 16 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 16.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Candidate List for the election of three members of the Council of Justice. On 30 March 2018, the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor submitted to the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 131 of the Constitution and Article 16, paragraph 3 and 4, of the Law on the Judiciary, a candidate list for the election of three members of the Council of Justice, on which six candidates were proposed, Dr. Damjan Možina, Andrej Rozman, Dr. Rok Svetlič, Dr. Andraz Teršek, Dr. Verica Trstenjak and Mag. Emil Konjyšek. I give the floor to the Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic, Natasa Kovac, for the additional explanation of the candidate list.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u93	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At a public invitation, the President of the Republic received 11 nominations for three members of the Council of Justice. They were mostly proposed by respected legal institutions and institutions. After examining the nominations and consultations with the parliamentary groups, he proposes a list of six candidates. In doing so, the President of the Republic took into account the constitutional possibility and proposed legal experts from various fields. On the list there are four recognized and respected professors and professors at home and abroad, a recognized lawyer and a well-established notary. Regular Professor Dr. Damjan Možina, Doctor of Legal Sciences, is a regular professor of civil and economic law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana. In most cases it explores the area of bond law, in particular contract and sensitive compensation law, and other areas of civil and public law are covered. He was proposed by the Senate of the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana. Andrej Rozman, a university graduate lawyer, has been a notary based in Idrija since 1994, has actively participated in the establishment of a notariat in the Republic of Slovenia and has been a member of the Executive Committee of the Notary Chamber of Slovenia for many years. He is a lawyer with rich practical experience from various legal areas. It was proposed by the Notary Chamber of Slovenia. Prof. Dr. Rok Svetlič, doctor of science, graduate of the Faculty of Law and Philosophy of the University of Ljubljana, employed at the University of Primorska Scientific Research Centre, also Head of the Institute for Law at this university. He is the President of the Slovenian Philosophy Society. The central area of his scientific, educational and research activities is the philosophy of right and human rights. It was proposed by the Director of the Scientific Research Centre of Koper. Prof. Dr. Andraz Teršek, Doctor of Legal Sciences, worked at three universities of the University of Primorska and at the European Faculty of Law of the New University of Novi Gorica. Scientifically, academically and publicly, he deals mainly with constitutional law, legal philosophy, human rights and freedoms, sociological and philosophical aspects of law, political philosophy and psychology. He became a critical commentator and analyst. It is proposed by the Dean of the European Faculty of Law of the New University. Professor Dr. Verica Trstenjak, doctor of legal sciences, has been a professor of European law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Vienna since 2013, also teaching at the Faculty of Law in Maribor and the European Faculty of Law. The difficulty of its research work is the law of the European Union, European constitutional and procedural law, legal protection, European civil law, copyright and fundamental rights of the European Union, as well as the field of NGOs and Slovenian civil law. It was proposed by the Dean of the European Faculty of Law, Nova Gorica. Mag. Emil Zakrajšek, a Master of Legal Sciences, has been a lawyer since 1991 with the name of a lawyer – a specialist in criminal law. In the Slovenian legal profession, he is recognised as an established legal expert and a criminal law lawyer, particularly in the field of economic criminal law, media law in relation to personal rights, civil and economic law. It was proposed by the Management Board of the Bar of Slovenia. The President of the Republic is convinced that all proposed candidates, with their expertise, their work so far and their experience, are fit to perform the proposed function. All the public have also made a special presentation. This allows Members and Members to choose from them three members of the Slovenian Council of Justice, who will perform this important function of the Ombudsman and the independence of the judiciary. Now, Mr President, honourable Members and Members, allow me, at the end of your term of office, to extend my sincere thanks to all, on behalf of the President of the Republic, all Members and Members, in particular to the leaders of the parliamentary groups and to the leadership of the Mandate-voluntary Commission for their successful and correct participation in the consultations and to carry out all procedures for the nominations of candidates for the President of the Republic for important national functions. Of the 26 candidates and candidates proposed by the President of the Republic, 23 were elected in the first round of voting. This is undoubtedly an important joint contribution to the stability and smooth functioning of the central state institutions in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u94	The candidate list was treated by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as a parent working body. In order to present the report to the Commission, I give the floor to the President, Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u95	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear Mrs Natasa Kovac, Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic, honourable Members and Members! The mandate-election committee is at its 44th session. 4. 2018 as a parent working body treated the candidate list for the election of three members of the Council of Justice, held by the State Assembly 30. 3. 2018 submitted by the President of the Republic of Slovenia. The President of the Council of Justice is 2. 2. 2018 The President of the National Assembly has been informed that 4. Seven. 2018 six members of the Council of Justice shall be given a term of office, including three members elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the President of the Republic from university professors of law, lawyers and other lawyers. The President of the National Assembly called for the election of members of the Council of Justice elected from among themselves by judges who hold permanent judicial functions and the election of members of the Council of Justice elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the President of the Republic from the university professors of law, lawyers and other lawyers, for Thursday, 19. 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Pursuant to Article 131 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 16(3) and Article 4(4) of the Law on the Judiciary, the President of the Republic submitted to the National Assembly a candidate list on which six candidates are proposed for three members of the Council elected by the National Assembly: Dr. Damjan Možino, Andrej Rozman, Dr. Rok Svetlič, Dr. Andraza Terška, Dr. Verico Trstenjak and Mag. Emila Zakrajska. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 12 of the Judicial Council Act, members of the Council of Justice shall be elected for a period of six years and shall not be reappointed immediately after the expiry of that period. The second paragraph of the same Article further provides that two or three members of the Council of Justice shall be elected every three years, elected by the National Assembly, and three members of the Council of Justice elected from among themselves by judges serving as permanent judges. On the basis of Article 16 of the Judicial Council Act, the President of the Republic shall submit to the National Assembly a candidate list on which the proposed number of candidates must be greater than the number of members elected, but not more than twice as many as the number of members elected and the elections are secret. Following a notification of the candidate list, the Commission adopted the following decision: The Commission shall assess the candidate list for the election of the three members of the Council of Justice as appropriate and shall propose to the National Assembly that three members of the Council be elected from among the candidates on the candidate list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u96	There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to the vote for the election of three members of the Council of Justice. The third and fourth paragraphs of Article 16 of the Judicial Council Act provide that the President of the Republic shall submit a list on which the proposed number of candidates must be greater than the number of members elected but not more than twice as many as the number of members elected. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 16 of the Law on the Judiciary on the election of the National Assembly, the Council shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. The representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for the members of the panel that leads the vote. These are: Dr Mitja Horvat, SMC Group, Mr Franz Breznik, SDS Group of Ambassadors, Miha Kordiš, Left Group, Mr Ivan Hršak, Desus Group of Ambassadors. I am also a member of the Commission as Chairman. Deputy Secretary-General Jernej Bergoč will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to such a proposal for a commission? No, no, no. If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the votes shall be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. The vote shall be taken by surrounding the number in front of the name of the candidate for which the vote is taken. He's voting for three candidates. The vote, which will cover more than three numbers before the names of the proposed candidates, will be invalid. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, an unfulfilled vote and a vote from which the Member's will will not be clearly reflected will also be invalid. However, a voice will be valid, which will include fewer than three numbers before the names of the proposed candidates. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 196 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, those three candidates will be elected, for which the majority of all Members will vote, who will give valid votes and will receive the maximum number of votes. If the three candidates do not receive the required majority in their vote, a second vote shall be taken, which shall vote on as many candidates as still has to be elected. The second vote shall vote on those candidates who have obtained the most votes in the first vote. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. If you would like to help me vote, please report to room 217 immediately, where you will receive the electoral material. The vote will begin at 13.55 and will last until 14.10. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt the 25th item of the agenda and the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 2.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u97	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are continuing the meeting of the assembly to consider the Candidate List for the election of three members of the Council of Justice. Allow me to read to you the minutes on the conclusion of the outcome of the vote for the election of three members of the Council of Justice. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 19 April 2018. 77 votes were distributed, 77 votes were cast, two votes invalid, 75 votes valid. The candidates received the following number of votes: Dr. Damjan Možina 25 votes, Andrej Rozman 32 votes, Dr. Rok Svetlič 23 votes, Dr. Andraz Teršek 19 votes, Dr. Verica Trstenjak 44 votes and mag. Emil Zkonjšek 40 votes. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr. Verica Trstenjak and Mag were elected by the majority of the votes cast by the Members who gave the votes in force. Emil Konjyšek. Since not all three members of the Council have been elected in the first vote, only two members have been elected and another member has to be elected, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 196 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly concerning candidates who have not obtained the necessary majority in the first vote, we will take a second vote. In accordance with that provision of the Rules of Procedure, the second vote will take place on as many candidates as still needs to be elected as the holders of the functions of the members of the Council of Justice. It's about one candidate. The vote will take place on the candidate who won the largest vote in the first vote. This is Andrej Rozman. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word “for” or the word “against”. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the Member's will is not clear. The candidate will be elected if he is voted on by the majority of the Members who will give the votes in force. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the voting box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. I would only ask for an explanation of how the procedure will proceed if this candidate is not elected, because it would be good for you to tell us the whole scenario, so that we also know Members to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u99	Okay, I'll do it. I'm just going to read this through, and I'm going to give this explanation at the same time. Members of the electoral commission, please assist me in voting to report to room 217, where you will take over the electoral material. If this third candidate is not elected in this round, the candidate procedure shall be repeated for the remaining seat. [[advertising from the hall]] No, just this third one. [[advertising from the hall]] That's according to the Law of the Council of Justice, and I can't do anything here. The vote will begin at 3 p.m. and will continue until 15.15 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt the 25th item of the agenda and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-19-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u100	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. We continue the meeting and the consideration of the Candidate List for the election of three members of the Council of Justice. Let me read the record of the second round. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 19 April 2018. With regard to candidate Andrej Rozman, 65 ballots were distributed, 65 ballots were delivered, eight votes were invalid, 57 were valid. There were 31 votes in favour, 26 against. On the basis of the outcome of the second vote, Andrej Rozman shall be elected a member of the Council by the majority of the votes cast by the Members who gave the valid votes. I congratulate the elected members and members of the Council of Justice, and wish them great success in the performance of their duties. This concludes the 25th item of the agenda. I conclude the 60th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly.
