ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u1	Dear Members and Members, guests, President of the Republic of Borut Pahor, President of the National Assembly, Dr. Brglez, a nice greeting to you all! I don't know how to explain my feelings. I'll take a minute to say one or two things. For the first time in my life, it's a great honor to be here, in this place, I never expected anything like this to happen to me. The next thing I see as a citizen is that the barometer of human consciousness and the tracking of politics is falling. It is therefore crucial for us, in this mandate, to reverse this, to begin to correct people's confidence in politics. And the last thing before we go forward, the laws we're going to adopt, supplement, change, must work for the benefit of the people and for the benefit of the country. That's all I have to say at this point. National choir: Zdravica – Slovenian anthem Thank you to the singing assembly of this Parliament; these are the staff who have begun the programme of today's session. I give the floor to the President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear newly elected Members, may I begin by sincerely congratulating you! At the same time, I welcome all the guests here and thank the Members of the previous call, both those present here and those who may accompany us through screens, and of course also Members, for all the work they have done. The services of the National Assembly also have all the thanks to enable us to carry out the work of the legislative branch of government for four years. What I want and what I am aware of is that Parliament is the centre of parliamentary democracy. In order to be able to represent all people, we must also respect people and, through self-restraint, come to that urgent cooperation that allows for both intra-political coexistence, within and between individual branches of government. In order that respect and self-restraint lead to cooperation, I wish you all the best and wish us all the good in this reference! Thank you very much. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u3	Dr. Brglez, thank you for the opening remarks. I begin the 1st meeting of the National Assembly, which was convened by the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, on the basis of Article 81 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, who will now also address the National Assembly. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u4	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Please accept my sincere congratulations on your election. I wish you a successful work for the common good of all our people. To all of us who have been called in one way or another for the conduct of state affairs, I welcome the satisfaction of meeting their high expectations to the best of our ability. High choice! The security of our countries, the well-being of its people and the reputation of Slovenia in the world will depend very much on our ability and willingness to cooperate. We are chosen from people who have very different views on all things. We have very different views on all things. And no one has the right to force us to change our minds against our will. However, we have a state-owned profession to respect and coordinate these differences. In this context, our cooperation is essential to strengthen confidence in democracy, the country and politics. Dear Members and Members! This year, I am waiting for me as President of the Republic and you as the National Assembly for some joint tasks. The first is the creation of a new Slovenian government. In accordance with Rule 225 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I must propose a candidate for Prime Minister no later than 30 days after the constitution of the National Assembly. So I have 30 days at my disposal, but I will not delay the proposal needlessly. I will inform the National Assembly of my decision as soon as I take it. When the President of the National Assembly informs me that all the leaders of the parliamentary groups have been appointed, in accordance with Article 111 of the Constitution, I will invite them to consult on the proposal for a Prime Minister. In the light of experience, we should expect this to be the end of the next week, that is, the end of this month, or the beginning of the next month. You are aware, honourable Members and Members, of my principled position that I should entrust the mandate for the composition of the government to a party that has received the largest proportion of the vote and voter votes in recent early parliamentary elections. I think it's so fair and good. In discussions with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, I will check whether there is sufficient principled support in the National Assembly to entrust the mandate of the champion of the largest parliamentary party, Janez Janša. In this case, in early July, I will sign his proposal for a term of office and send him to the National Assembly. If, in discussions with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, it is clear that someone else is enjoying the necessary parliamentary majority, Mr Janez Janša would be invited to speak again, as we agreed. After that discussion, he informed me and the public that he would not accept the mandate in this case. Ladies and gentlemen! Slovenia has no government with full powers since mid-March this year. We are now the end of July, and given our experience and expectations, we could at best get a government there at the end of August. This would mean that between the two governments with full powers, it would take about half a year. The issues that await solutions to the new government have accumulated. It is therefore clear that as soon as possible the election of the new government for Slovenia would be beneficial and also encouraging. Dear Members and Members! I believe that I have also explained on this official path all the circumstances which are relevant to my and your decisions on the proposal for a candidate for Prime Minister. The process of forming a government is always difficult and complicated, so I am trying to make at least as transparent and predictable as possible as possible. High choir! In addition to creating a new government, the law gives us a role in the appointment of the new Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. With the previous composition of the National Assembly, we agreed that it is wise to leave the election of the new Governor to a new call by the National Assembly, so I am informing you that the invitation to apply for the appointment of candidates and candidates for this position will expire on 20 August this year. In accordance with the law, I must send the proposal to the National Assembly within thirty days of that date. I would like to point out that this time I am obliged to propose a candidate for the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, regardless of the timetable of the procedure for the appointment of the new government, and you will then decide as you think it is right. I have consulted on all matters in the two mandates of the previous reference, including the new Governor, in any case thoroughly before this, with the leaders of the groups of Members. High choir! On Monday 18 June, this Monday, the President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Jadranka Sovdat, informed me that her mandate would expire in mid-December this year. I will shortly issue a call for proposals from potential candidates and candidates for this position. I will send the proposal to the National Assembly at a time that will allow you to elect a new Constitutional Judge or Judge before the end of your term of office, that is, before mid-December this year. It is anticipated that this year I will inform the National Assembly of the candidates for the two candidate posts at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg. Slovenia must appoint one more, i.e. a total of two, at the same time as the appointment of a judge whose term expires next August. Dear Members and Members, Mr President! In the good five and a half years of my duty and cooperation with the two compositions of the National Assembly, we have always made important human resources decisions in a timely and successful manner. This was important for the stability and functioning of all branches of government. I wish we could have done that in the years to come. Our common patient dialogue and the common search for our best solutions were then paid by the smooth operation of all institutions and functions both in the country and in international organisations. This, in some ways, contributed invisibly to the necessary mutual trust and greater political stability, and all of this was very welcome for the faster economic and general recovery of Slovenia. I recommend our best cooperation also in the current call of the National Assembly. Dear Members, people have entrusted their hopes and trusts to us. We have been instructed to protect and develop our country and our homeland together. May all our experiences, knowledge, courage, and wisdom help us in this regard. If something dramatic did not happen in the world against our will, then after many years we should now think again about the comprehensive progress of our Slovenia. Together, there will be a lot more to achieve. The differences between us are rich and the cooperation is noble. Accept, honourable Mr President, honourable Members and Members, once again my most heartfelt wishes for your successful work. I thank you, Mr President, for our cooperation and thank you all for your attention. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u5	I thank the President of the Republic, Mr Borut Pahor, for these encouraging words and thank you, Mr President, for honouring us in this first meeting of the Assembly of State. Thank you. I inform the Members and Members that we have not received any apology for today's meeting. The President of the National Election Commission, Mr Anton Gasper Frantar and the Director of the State Election Commission, Mr Dusan Vukko, are also invited to attend. Once again, I welcome everyone here. Now we're moving on to the right job. We are moving on to the agenda for the 1st meeting of the National Assembly. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and received by letter dated 18 June 2018. The temporary heads of the parliamentary groups and Members of the national communities have set out the following draft agenda: Item 1 Appointment of the President and Vice-President of the Election Commission, item 2 Confirmation of the terms of office of Members and item 3 Election of the President of the National Assembly. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I therefore propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. I ask all Members and Members present to insert ballot cards for voting devices. Check their operation by making an orange light on the right hand side of the inserted card – this is mainly for us novelties, including me. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 86 votes against none. [[The vote was 86.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the first meeting of the assembly is set. Pass 1. On the agenda, this is for the appointment of the President and the Vice-President of the Management-voluntary Commission. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the temporary heads of the parliamentary groups and members of the national community, at the meeting on 18 June 2018, decided that the post of President of the Commission shall belong to the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party — SDS and the Vice-President’s seat to the Group of the Marjan Sarca. The interim leader of the SDS Group, Daniel Krivec, announced that Jožet Tanka is the chairman of the Commission. The temporary head of the Group of Ambassadors, Mr Brana Golubovic, proposes Tina Heferle as Vice-President. You have received a proposal for a decision appointing the President and the Vice-President of the Commission on Elections. No debater, as I can see, so let's move on. We're moving on to decision-making. I shall put to the vote a motion for a decision on the appointment of the President and Vice-President of the Electoral Commission. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. On the basis of the decision adopted on the number of seats on the Commission belonging to the individual group of Members and Members of the Member States and members of the Commission, the temporary heads of the Groups of Members and Members of the Commission have communicated the names of Members and Members of the Commission. Thus, the composition of the Commission's mandate is as follows: Mr Jože Tanko SDS Group – President, Tina Hefferle Parliamentary Group of the List of Marjan Sarca – Vice-President. Members of the Commission are: Mr Franz Breznik, Mrs Jelka Godec, Mrs Alenka Jeraj, Mr Daniel Krivec, Mrs Lidija Dijak Mernik, from the Parliamentary Group of Marjan Šarca; Mr Rudi Medved, Mrs Matjaž Han, from the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Bojana Muršič; from the SMC Group, the Modern Centre Party, Janja Sluga and Igor Zorčič; from the Leftist Group Luka Mesec and Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec; from the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats Mr. Jožef Horvat; from the Alenka Bratušek Group; from the Desus Group, the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr. Franc Jurša; from the Slovenian Group of National Parties Mr. Dušan Šiško; and from the Members of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Ferenc Horváth. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda. In order to prepare the 2nd item of the agenda, please meet the Mandate-Electorial Commission. The meeting of the Commission will begin at noon, which is at 12 noon in a large salon opposite the great hall. Members and members of the Commission, please take with you the material you have received in connection with item 2 of the agenda. I'm adjourning the 1st meeting of the choir, which we'll resume at 2 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.27 p.m. and resumed at 14. uri.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u6	Well, we're back here, and we're going to start and continue the 1st session of the National Assembly, which was suspended for these two hours. We're moving to 2. On the order of the day, it's on the confirmation of the mandate of the deputies. You have received the report of the Mandate-Electorial Commission and the minutes of the State Election Commission on the findings of the early elections and the decision on the correction of the minutes of the State Election Commission. I inform you that two candidates for Members and representatives of the list of candidates who have been published on the websites of the National Assembly have come to the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Complaints by candidates and representatives of candidate lists pursuant to Article 109 of the Law on Elections in the National Assembly have not been lodged. I ask Mr Jože Tank, President of the Commission on Elections, to present the report of the Commission. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u7	Good-bye, everybody! At its first meeting today, 22 June 2018, in accordance with the provisions of Article 7 of the Law on Members and Article 13 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Commission reviewed the minutes of the State Election Commission on the finding of the outcome of the early election of Members to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Certificate of Election of Members and Members of the National Assembly and the role of candidates for Members and representatives of the list of candidates of 18 June 2018 and 19 June 2018. Taking into account the above, the Mandate-Election Commission, for the first time, found, in the early election of Members to the National Assembly on 3 June 2018, a total of 46 candidates were elected under the 90th Article of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly and under the 91st Article of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly of 46 candidates and candidates. The remaining 42 mandates were divided at national level under the provisions of Articles 92 and 93 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly. One candidate was elected representative of the Hungarian National Community and Member of the Italian National Community. Secondly, the electoral certificates were submitted to the Commission by 90 elected candidates and candidates. Tertji, the Commissioner-Electorial Commission has received two applications for candidates for Members and a representative of the list of candidates, which has been judged in the light of the provisions of Article 109 of the Electoral Law in the National Assembly. The role of Mr Jarh as a candidate for Member of 18 June and the role of Mr Franz Žnidaršič as representative of the list of candidates was taken as the United Left, the Democratic Party of Work and the Slolog and Rastka Ploh, Janka Vebra, Villa Kovacic, Jožef Jarh and Gasper Ferrjan as candidates for Members of 19 June 2018. In view of Article 109 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, the applications submitted were timely. With regard to the application of Joseph Jarh, the Mandate-Electorial Commission found, for the first time, that it does not contain essential elements which are prescribed in Article 109, paragraph 2, of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly. Secondly, that the contested act is not an act of the electoral commission which may have an effect on the confirmation of the sent mandates against which, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 109 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, a complaint to the National Assembly is made possible. With regard to the role of the six complainants, the Magi. Franca Žnidaršič, Rastka Plohla, Janka Vebra, Villa Kovacič, Jožef Jarh and Gasper Ferjana were found by the Management and Electoral Commission to be related to the role of Joseph Arh, because, for the first time, it does not contain the essential elements prescribed for the appeal in Article 109(2) of the Law on Elections in the National Assembly, and does not contain the grounds for appeal, since the complainants do not claim specific infringements which would result in the illegality of the election results. It follows from this application that three laws are contested for the complainants, namely the Law on Elections in the National Assembly, the Law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia and the Law on Election and Referendum Campaigns, which are challenged before the Constitutional Court and also enforces judicial protection before the Supreme Court. It follows from the application that the complainants want to temporarily hold the first meeting of the National Assembly and that they want to assess the conformity of the early elections, which were 3. 6. 2018, with the Constitution and the International Law Acts. In the procedure referred to in Article 109 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, the exercise of specific and non-abstractive legal protection may be challenged by irregularities in the electoral procedure and irregularities in the determination of electoral outcomes that affect or would have a significant impact on the outcome of the election. These may be decisions by electoral commissions or irregularities in the electoral process that may affect the approval of mandates. However, the allegations of such specific irregularities, which would make it impossible to recognise the identified election outcome, do not contain the role of Joseph Jarh and the six complainants. On the basis of the content of both applications and the application in both applications, the Commission found that the role of Joseph Jarh and the six complainants could not be considered to be an appeal under Article 109 of the Law on Elections in the National Assembly. In view of the above, the Mandate-Electorial Commission adopted the following conclusions: "The role of Joseph Jarh is not considered because there is no complaint under Article 109 of the Electoral Law in the National Assembly. The role of mag. Franca Žnidaršič, Rastka Plohla, Janka Vebra, Villa Kovacič, Jožef Jarh and Gasperi Ferjan are not being considered because there is no complaint under Article 109 of the Law on Elections in the National Assembly.” The appeal by the individual candidate and representative of the list of candidates pursuant to Article 109 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly until the first meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission has not been lodged. On the basis of the above, the Mandate-Electorial Commission found that none of the 90 terms of office were disputed. The mandate-election commission shall propose to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 82, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, Article 7 of the Law on Members and Article 13 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following decision shall be adopted: "The terms of office of all Members and Members of the National Assembly elected in the early elections shall be confirmed 3. 6. 2018, according to the list of elected candidates for MEPs and candidates, which is an integral part of the report of the Mandate-Electorial Commission." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u8	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. We are moving on to the debate on the report of the Mandate-Volution Commission. I give the text to representatives of the parliamentary groups, and only the Parliamentary Group Levica, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec, has applied. And, please, let us limit ourselves to five minutes of debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u9	Thank you very much to the chairman, dear Members and Members of Parliament for a good day! This opportunity, i.e. the confirmation of the mandates of Members and Members, at first I wanted to take advantage of this, given that it is partly a formality, partly a protocol and partly a ceremony, to give a brief reminder or a vision of why we are Members and Members here in the National Assembly and also what our task is. The key message I wanted to deliver was that the policy of buying and sharing should be broken. That the interests of people must be put before the interests of capital and, in particular, in this situation, perhaps before the human resources and other appetites held by political parties. That it is necessary to act, in short, for the well-being of all and not just a handful. But unfortunately, even before our mandates were officially confirmed, now this old policy of non-basic pragmatism has triumphed. And also new faces have shown once again that they do not tolerate policy changes. The Left in this place reports – and will continue to prove by its actions – that a different policy is possible and that a different policy is primarily or in the first place a matter of decision. The situation in Slovenian society is due to decisions of political establishment and nothing else. More than a quarter of a million poor, increasing differences between the population and the people of Slovenia, as well as the gradual decommissioning of all public services, starting with alarming health conditions, are simple, and we must be aware of this as a result of political decisions. In this mandate, I could and I hope that we will decide to break up with a policy that will again and again find an excuse, how and why there is nothing to be done. To break with a policy that the excuse for the situation itself caused in the past is always looking elsewhere in different uncles. To end the policy of pre-election promises and to start, on the other hand, with a policy of action that will ultimately benefit the people and people of this country in particular. The first steps in such a policy should be clear to all; a minimum wage must be raised in order for each one to be able to make a decent living. Social assistance must be raised and people must be drawn from poverty. And, of course, raise your pension so that someone after 40 years of work doesn't end up just in poverty. All those who say there is no means for such policies must be reminded of only one thing — the reckless spending of more than billions of euros on weapons. These funds would be significantly more useful if they were diverted to health, the environment and development in general. The next steps will, of course, be harder, but no less urgent. Neoliberal capitalism does not work, will not last long and will be in crisis again. It is therefore necessary to change the system and start building democratic and ecological socialism. The Members and Members, who will now confirm your mandates, I call on you not to believe those who have been convincing us for more than 25 years that it is impossible to do so and that it is simply not possible. The left says that changes are possible, not only possible, but in fact necessary, and I think that today's event shows that this is still true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u10	Thank you, Dr. Vatovec, for your comments. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Two Members, First Felice Žiža Member of the Italian National Community, have also applied to prepare Mr Ferenc Horváth. Please, Mr. Giza.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u11	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Good day and a nice greeting to all present! Buon giorno e un cordiale saluto a tutti and presenti! First of all, I would like to congratulate all Members and Members on their election to the National Assembly and on their approval of the mandates. The Italian and Hungarian Group of National Communities will endeavour and direct their work towards the welfare of our country and all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Above all, I would like to promote and ensure the realization of the situation and specific rights of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities and the achievement of the set objectives that will only be achieved through your understanding and cooperation. We have decided to communicate in the National Assembly, in all authorities of the National Assembly and ministries in the Slovenian language for the purpose of more effective communication and cooperation. That is why I thank you in advance, and at the same time I wish everyone good and successful work in the National Assembly. Permettemi di congratularmi con tutti and nuovo eletti deputati alla Camera di stato del parliamentary Slovenia. Nonché per la conference di tutti terms. Il groupo parliamentary della Community nationale Italiana e ungherese orererê tutte only Sue energy e lavorer please per il bene comune del nostro stato and particolare per salvaguardare e promuovere tutti and diriti e gli interests dei citadini della Repubblica Slovena. In partoolare desideriamo t tétolare, promoovere, valorizzare e realizare tutti que que sono and diritti aquisiti delle ComunitÃ nazionale italiana e ungherese autoctone e raggiungere gli promises prefissati, cosa che sar¢ possiće solo con la vostra comprensione e collaborazione. Abbiamo deciso che nelle nostre attivitė presso la Camera di stato ed in tutti and suoi organs di lavoro nonche presso and ministers competenti communicheremo e dialogueeremo in lingua slovena al fine di ottimizzare la comprensione e migliorando in tal modo anche la nostra collaborazione. Per questo you voglio gío anticipamene ringaziare e augurare un buon e proficuo lavoro presso la Camera di stato del nostro parliamentary. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. Giza. Mr Ferenc Horvath, Ambassador of the Hungarian National Community, is the next speaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u13	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members, dear ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to say hello in Hungarian first. Tištelt Elnöklő, tistelt képviselőrsaim, tistelt hölgyim és uraim! And Parliament Mai alaculó ülése gyacorlatilag egybeesik and álamiság ünnepével. Azt megelőzőnépszavazason and Muravidéki magyarok is az önálló Szlevenia megalaculasate tamogatuk, a site of the hazakantent tekintünk rá. And the head of törvényhoza and magyar és alaša őshonos kisebbséget az alkotmanyban és and törvényekben külöjogokkal rupázta fel. And Słoveniában élő magyarok azzal and megasztelő errordatet beztek frame, hogi yogainkat képvisel and head of parliament. Hogy miknet with a nod mignon ezt megtenni? Mindenképpen felöségtelésen, nyitott és ősinte parbeszéddel, and kölcsönös elfogadas jegyében, and magyarság, de egyben and teles terség helyzetenek edekében. Mert ott and Muravidéken gyakran úgy érezzük, hogy and fővárosban nem mindig forditanak kellő figyelmet az ország egyik legelmaradotab terségére. A magyar közösség yogi helyzete ugyan rendezett, de a törvények megavalosítasa terrain of my juice tennivalonk maradt. én astret, hogyez az országílés est and kerdést külön érzékenységgel thárgyalja mad, rus és ellenzéktöl függetlenül. Meggyőződés serint and kissebségi yogok kérdésköre ugyanis meghaladja and partypolitikii vitak. Eddigi kisebségpolitikáří a jogosan lehet büszke, ezért azt kivánom, hogy ebben and mandatumba ezen and terren közösen további előrepéset tegyünk. Jómagam nyitott vagyok mindenféle együttmőködésre. Šertník hidat alkotní and magyarok és and bran, and Muravidék és and Rábabedék, with him utolsósorban Szlovenia es Magyarszág között. Egy hidat, amely összeköt. Mert egyben biztos vagyok: lehet, hogy különbözöek vagyunk, negány kérdésben masképp gondolkodunk, de minket magyarokat es szloveneket több minden összeköt, mintsem elválastt, sak my nem ismerjük kellőképpen egymást. A két ország, and közötti közötti jó együttmőködés pedig különösen positiv hatassal lehet az őshonos muravidéki magyar és rábábádékékékén közöség megmaradására és megerősödésére. Your Honor, allow me to greet you all together and congratulate you on your election. Today's opening date almost coincides with the day of statehood. At the referendum, when we decided to establish a new state, we, the Hungarian Moorish, also spoke for the establishment of a independent Slovenia. We view it as our home country, where the indigenous Hungarian and Italian communities have special rights, both in the constitution and in many laws, including the use of our mother tongue, so I am pleased to welcome you today in Hungarian. In the elections, I was honoured to have been trusted by members of the Hungarian community to represent me with the Constitution and with the laws of recognized rights in the National Assembly. How do I want to start this? Responsible, with openness and frank dialogue in a spirit of mutual respect for the welfare of the Hungarian community and of the region as a whole. In Pomura, we still have the feeling that, as one of the least developed regions in our capital, it is not always being given enough attention. Although the status of the Hungarian community is regulated in Slovenia, there is still a great deal to be done at the implementation level, so I would like this national assembly to deal with this issue with a great deal of understanding regardless of the future coalition and opposition. In my opinion, this issue goes beyond the party framework. Slovenia can be justifiably proud of its policy towards minorities, so I would like us to take further steps in this area in the right direction in our mandate. I am open to cooperation, I want to be a link between Hungary and Slovenia, between Pomour and Use and, last but not least, between Slovenia and Hungary. In some respects we are different, we have different views on some issues, but I am sure that Hungary and Slovenia have much more in common than what separates us, only we should get to know each other better. Good cooperation between the two countries and between the two governments can have a particularly positive effect on the existence and strengthening of the indigenous national community, both in Pomure and in Use. I wish you all good and successful work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. I now address the question to the President of the Mandate-Voluntary Commission, Mr Tank. Is there anything else you would like to comment on behalf of the proposer? Please, Mr. Tanko. No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. The mandate-holder committee has found that none of the 90 mandates sent are disputed, so I propose to the National Assembly that the following decision be adopted on the basis of Article 82(3) of the Constitution, Article 7 of the Law on Members and Article 13 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The decision is as follows: The terms of office of all Members and Members of the National Assembly elected in the early elections 3. 6. 2018, according to the list of elected candidates for MEPs and candidates, which is an integral part of the report of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Let's get ready for the vote. We're voting. There are 90 Members and Members present, 90 votes against none. [[The vote was 90.]] [[Against 90.]] I note that all 90 mandates have been confirmed as ambassadors and Members. We are truly Members now. I congratulate the elected Members and Members, and wish you every success in your work. This concludes item 2 of the agenda. We're moving to 3. On the agenda, it's on the President's side of the national council. I ask qualified candidates to submit a proposal by 14.55 for the President of the National Assembly. I hereby terminate the third item of the agenda and the first meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. when I inform you of the submitted nominations. Thanks for listening. (The sitting was suspended at 2.25 p.m. and resumed at 15. uri.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u15	I think we can start by continuing the 1st meeting of the choir. We are moving on to the consideration of the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the election of the President of the National Assembly. Within the time limit for the submission of nominations for the election of the President of the National Assembly, the proposal was submitted by a group of 50 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Sarc, who proposed mag as President of the National Assembly. Matthew Tonin. Does the representative of the candidate Marjan Sarec wish to further explain the proposal? Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u16	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Members and Members! First of all, congratulations to everyone for their election. I won't be long. You have before you a proposal for the President of the National Assembly, which is coordinated. I am the first to sign this proposal, and the parties to LMŠ, our party, then SMC, SD, Desus, Alenka Bratušek and Nova Slovenija signed. The point is that we want to show at the first meeting that there is no need to complicate the situation, that we can jointly elect the person who will lead this national assembly, and we agree that this candidacy, or that, even if the President of the National Assembly, will be confirmed, this temporary presidency until a coalition is formed. I can say that these are already the outline of the future coalition we want, and this is the central coalition, the development coalition, facing the future, not the past. I think he's a magician. Matthew Tonin, the representative of the new generation of politicians, that this view has forward, and that is why we are also signed below, 50 Members and Members, are convinced that this compromise proposal, which is a joint proposal by our parties, is a good proposal at this time and that it is right to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u17	Thank you very much for this explanation. Representatives of the parliamentary groups are now on the move. As the first speaker, Mr Luka Mesec will be the representative of the Left Group. Get Joseph Horvath ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam President, and a nice greeting to all! The appointment of the President of the National Assembly is in Slovenian political practice a test showing the colour of the future government. If I read the appointment of Matthew Tonin as President of the National Assembly as a test, we shall consider the following. In Levica, we have consistently adhered to what we promised before the elections, our interest is political change, not the pursuit of functions or personal benefit. Our aim is to achieve a serious and lasting salary and pension raise, to eliminate the chastity, to stop the sale of state-owned enterprises, to provide health, science and culture, to finally regulate the country's housing policy and to put the environment and human health ahead of the interests of capital. These are the reasons why people supported us, and this is also what we did when we discussed the appointment of the President of the National Assembly. We have not demanded anything for ourselves, nor have we even proposed, but we have only demanded that the environment in exchange for our support be emplaced by one of our Members. On the contrary, we gave up our prestige and explicitly supported the mid-term candidate and were prepared to compromise. Nevertheless, this morning we were expected to hear the news that a united environment, called the List of Marjan Šarc, the Party of the Modern Centre, the Social Democrats, Desus and Alenka Bratušek, agreed with the right hand, NSI, and proposed Matthew Tonin as the President of the National Assembly. This gives the impression that, for the first time, personal interests prevailed in the middle, which made it impossible to provide 46 votes for the midpoint candidate, supported by the Levica, and for the second time that counting in the middle was just a smoke screen for a silent agreement with the right. Thus, we have today instead of the central candidate with the support of the Left in front of us a right-wing candidate who advocates the Americanisation of health and an even faster sale of state property, which would lower taxes again during the period 2004 to 2008 during the conjuncture, and we will expect the crisis again with an empty treasury that asks us the right to abortion, which advocates the survival of the neoliberal concepts of the European periphery, where such a policy will also put us. We didn't make it here by accident. We were brought here by personal interests and right-hand shopping. She's both a very poor passenger for the appointment of the next government. For these reasons, we will not support Matthew Tonin as President of the National Assembly, and our doors remain open to the middle if he decides to put personal interests aside and start working for the well-being of all, not just a handful.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Moon. Mr Jožef Horvat, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members, dear fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Ancient Greek philosopher Plato wrote a significant thought more than 3 centuries ago: “Man is born not only for himself but also for his country.” Our Slovenian homeland is not only fields, mountains and seas that are symbolically covered by Slovenian coat of arms, our Slovenian homeland is also our common spiritual space. I hope that this year's nine students have already internalized their Slovenian homeland through the educational process. Today he begins his work VIII. the Convention of the National Assembly. Colleagues and colleagues, from election day to day, we have all internalized the responsibility of our mission and have answered the question of why people with democratic and free elections have sent us to this Chamber of Democracy to take the best solutions instead of them and for them, for people. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I sincerely thank all citizens and citizens who came to vote on June 3rd. However, I sincerely congratulate you, my dear colleagues, that today, with the approval of your mandates, you have officially become a Member and a Member of the National Assembly. The voters told us what country they wanted to live in. This is how we in New Slovenia understood the electoral message. We want to live in a normal European country in Slovenia where voters reward successful governments and punish failures by changing power. We do not want to remain a creation where there remain one and the same in power, indeed in the amount of new clothes. We want a country like this that's facing the stars of the future. We don't want a country that can't say goodbye to a star of the past. We want to live in a country that will be oriented towards Europe and the world. We do not like a country that will look at its own petty health and its view will not reach over the hills of the former Balkan state. We want such a parliamentary democracy in which political parties will represent the interests of citizens and a human being, the citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, will be a fundamental policy concern. We want a country where the parties are not exposed to a deep background. We want a country driven by politics from the forefront. Ladies and gentlemen, in Slovenia, most citizens pay fair enough taxes to have the right to require the country to provide quality security, fair trial, affordable health, education and social protection services to maintain public municipal infrastructure, to care for the environment and space, and to perform qualitatively all those tasks for which the modern European country is established. Our people expect the future government to provide an environment in which quality, efficient and affordable public services will be available to citizens. They expect that the future government will no longer be a representative of this or that interest group that provides services paid with tax money. She is expected to be interested in the quality of life in Slovenia, each individual and all citizens together. Our citizens expect that the country will actually allow entrepreneurs a free economic initiative, in line with the principle: for good work, good pay to all those who work honestly with their own work and intelligence in this country. The system must be such that it meritocratically rewards the capable and the concerned, but not the members. The future government expects citizens to keep Slovenia in the field of European-Atlantic democratic, valuable and economic environment and to give up flirting with authoritarian solutions. Mag. Matthew Tonin, President of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, this time the candidate for the President of the National Assembly, who, as he himself says, will limit his position in time in favour of a stable coalition and government, gives hope for European Slovenia as people want and deserve. Mate Matthew came to this house 10 years ago, was elected a Member of Parliament three times, for the first time in 2011. At home and abroad within the EU and the Union, he then gained sufficient experience with work for the common good, and with a sense of cohabitation, he has already proved that he will be part of the function of the first one of the same in the National Assembly. Matthew Tonin, our delegation group, Nova Slovenija, supports. In this way, the constitution of the National Assembly will be enabled today, which in no way means the entry of New Slovenia into any coalition. We fully trust Matthew Tonin to do what he says, to connect Slovenia. Let me conclude with the thought of French writer Victor Hugo: “The day will come when all the nations of our continent, without having to give up their unique specialties and great uniqueness, will come into a higher entity and will squander the brotherhood of European nations. The day will come when the fields of screeching ideas will be the only battlefields. The day will come when, instead of bullets and bombs, election votes will be decided." This day is to a large extent a reality. Let's not let our colleagues and colleagues get lost, but let's do everything we can to get closer to this idea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. The next speaker is Marko Bandelli. Get Mr. Franz Jurša ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u22	Your Honor! Allow me first to welcome all of you, Members of Parliament, and congratulate you on your election and wish you a successful work. Unlike the speech of a former colleague from the Left, I am personally convinced that the new faces, the unladen faces, are those that can contribute a new wind to this national chorus. Let wisdom prevail in decisions, not individualism and unilateral interests. That is why we decided to support the temporary President of the National Assembly, the candidate of the Magi, in the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek. Matthew Tonin, at the proposal of Marjan Šarc, will enable us to work constructively as quickly as possible for the benefit of countries and citizens. Because during this time when we are talking, where and with whom, health problems, youth problems and pensioners remain. But it is our job and our duty to get to them and rescue them as soon as possible. We have a lot of work to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Bandelli. Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Jurša. The Slovenian National Party, Mr Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti, should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u24	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, all well greeted! Let me take this opportunity at the outset, and I would like to congratulate you all very much for your mandate in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I would like to see people regain their confidence in politics and, above all, in us parliamentarians through their good work. Let this house become once again a house of wisdom, argument and cooperation, not exclusion, measurement of muscle and performance. Today we are facing the first common test, which is of paramount importance for the development of our society, so we must all step back, forget the client interests and put the interests of the Republic of Slovenia first. While in Desus we want the left-centre governments most, because we want to put man and his social and other rights first, but since we are a nation-building and responsible party, we can also agree to the central government, because the country is ahead of many challenges, so we need a government that will be stable. Experience teaches us that the majority who elects the President of the National Assembly will later form a government, so we all want a lot of wisdom when you give your vote. Let your voice be understanding, overcome differences and ensure a link between people or a link like bridges. We'll support the mags at Desus. Matthew Tonin as President of the National Assembly. However, we expect the formation of a central government coalition to take place as soon as possible, so it is right to forget the prestige, to choose the first one among the same, which will also guarantee that we can reach the central government. The citizens have played with us because Parliament is as fragmented as it has been for a long time, but they have somehow let us know that our society is plural, that we are different and that we have to cooperate. Although the left-centre political sex won these elections in the end, people have made it clear to us that they want to overcome differences, open society and cooperation, and that people should not be disappointed. Dear Matthew Tonin, you have our support today.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Jursha. Member of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Zmago Jelinčič. I ask that a Member of the Social Democrats be prepared, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u26	President, I will not say thank you for your words, because you have not given me any words or vows, so, as a beautiful Slovenian language, I will only thank you for allowing me to speak. I am glad to be among you again in this room, even though this joy does not come from the faces of all here present. Outside this hall, I could say, quite a few of them have made their entry into the National Party of Slovenia miserable, but that's how it is. First of all, I would like to thank all the voters who voted for the Slovenian National Party, although some of the powerful Democrats from the so-called left have declared that they are people from the outskirts, with lower levels of education and that they are frustrated people. Of course, this is an insult and should not be forgotten by voters, but so-called Left Democrats should be aware that there are at least 35,000 people in Slovenia, or at least over 250 000. With our ideas and yours, of course, we will continue the way Slovenia should go. We need to do something for the citizens, something for the country, and especially not work so hard for our pockets, do all sorts of rotten compromises, to find chairs, to find financial means, to do the whole kind of stupidity that has been done in the last seven years. Seven years ago, the Slovenian National Party was the conscience of this Parliament, after our departure, there was no more of this conscience, so there was also a horrendous debt, so false information about the good condition of our country and the whole type of stupidity that we hear from the mainstream media, of course, in the hands of certain people. In this desire to insist, let me mention the unfortunate failure of Mr President in his resignation, Mr Cerar, to sue Croatia quickly with tax money, while Slovenian hospitals repent at seams, that patients wait and wait and wait and wait, is disorderly in the area of justice, in the area of the security of our country, which is terribly threatened, and lies that we are not threatened, lies lie that we are beautiful, that we have a fine, that everything is fine. It would be nice for someone to walk on Prekmurje, walk on the White Land and on those ends that suffer for all the good that the government has prepared for us so far. Even when I said about health care, it seems that talking about health was just a pre-election promise and nothing more, it was more for many people to earn money, and it was only an opportunity for voters to talk about something that some knew they would not do at the time. Here today I am listening to some who are already quietly making deals based on the support given to Mr Tonin. In this regard, I must say that the Slovenian National Party will support it, and we will support it because we feel that it is good, that it can do and that it can do. However, I am laughing when I hear that Levica is already requiring and telling me how she intends to vote on the proposal for the composition of the government, and when I listen to fellow Members talking about the central government. I think that Slovenia must be governed by a good government, a patriotic government and a government that is something for the state and the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Jelinchich Noble. Social Democrats, Mr. Han. Prepare the Modern Centre Party, Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! Let me sincerely congratulate you all and hope for good cooperation. It is right that the new composition of the National Assembly, all elected Members and Members, should show and prove that the responsibility of our citizens and citizens is the first and greatest commitment that we are obliged to respect at every step of today and also further, regardless of what our views are, ladies and gentlemen, from which we come. We are obliged to act responsibly, to speak with respect in particular, to work in such a way that the interests of people, their tribulations, their problems and, above all, to find solutions to these problems are always before our eyes. All that we have promised our voters and voters in the end before the elections. If talking to the first impression is important to us, I want to, and I expect that today we will show that we are capable of maturity, and above all that we are capable of accountability. We see the decision to elect the new President of the National Assembly as the first test of this maturity and responsibility. After seeing, talking, negotiating, unfortunately also bidding with names, we are pleased that the majority of Members and Members of Parliament have been united in order to elect a New Slovenia Member of the National Assembly today — Christian Democrats, Mag. Matthew Tonin. It shows, ladies and gentlemen, the responsibility and, above all, the determination to put ahead in the coming days the issues that burden our people: waiting types in health, pensions, measures to promote the economy, and could add another hour. I am sure that we are all here, regardless of which party we come from, whether we have already sat in these benches or today, for the first time, we are clearly one of the basic political alphabets. He says that without the election of the President of the National Assembly, substantive discussions are very difficult to complete. Contentual discussions, especially those that will somehow respond to the answers to people’s problems. And they'll be hard for you. This year's elections have divided the National Assembly to make our talks even harder, but if we are responsible, I believe we will be able to save them. We are convinced that today, although it may not have been so yesterday, we are convinced that this solution has been reached by the Members and Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, Social Democrats, the Party of the Modern Centre, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, Alenka Bratusek and Desus to place on the table Mr Tonin's candidate for President of the National Assembly. That's what we've been cutting off this human resources node, and it's nothing more. Now there are steps to be taken. There will be many compromises on this path, there will be many challenges on this difficult path, but I believe that we can make this Slovenia better and more normal with good substantive discussions. For Social Democrats, content, content and again content are important. And Matthew, you have votes from the Social Democrats today, and I believe that we can talk about content in the coming days, and we are all responsible for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u29	Mr. Zorčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u30	Mr President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, congratulations on your election to the National Assembly. Today we say good-bye from 2014-2018, in which Slovenia, after many years of economic crisis, has embarked on the path between the fastest growing economies of the European Union. We are moving from a period in which unemployment, including youth unemployment, has been substantially reduced, restrictions under the notorious law on public finances have begun to be lifted and, last but not least, political space has stabilised during this period. Despite the positive trends in poverty reduction, economic growth and social progress, the consequences and constraints of the economic crisis have not been definitively eliminated, and there are always new and new circumstances in the international space that are forecasting a lot of responsible work for the national assembly and the future government. In the Modern Centre Party, we will strive for coalition and government, which will work in the spirit of socio-liberal values and which will ensure that positive trends continue in all social areas so that all citizens and citizens live a decent life in a modern country, development opportunities for everyone, in a country of social justice and personal freedom. The result of the elections, when in the National Assembly citizens represent more parties than in the previous reference, none of the parties unties the effort and responsibility for linking and seeking common language with other parties. More parties in the National Assembly must no longer make excuses, but more responsibility for each of them. If we choose the Mag today. Matthew Tonin, as a joint candidate or as a proposal from six parties, then shows that at least these parties have already found a common language and that there has been some kind of confidence, a minimum of confidence that is necessary for these parties to start further negotiations and an attempt to unify their own programmes. We're going to be in the modern center party. Tonino has been supported as interim president of the National Assembly. We estimate that, on the basis of its past work, knowledge, experience and, last but not least, the attitude towards Members in the previous term, including all other employees in the National Assembly, is suitable for this function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Zorcich. Now I give my word to the Members and Members of Parliament. It was originally a pretty big number. There are only seven of you left to discuss. As the first debater, Mrs Ludmila Novak will prepare Mr Winning Jelinčič Nobleni.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! We all have sincere congratulations on the election and the trust our fellow citizens have given us. Because they have given us this trust in order to do something good for citizens and for the country, we are all trying to be constructive now. In this spirit I also understand the candidacy of our President of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats Mag. Matthew Tonin as President of the National Assembly. Which I cannot believe, though temporarily, that this opportunity has been offered in relation to all the discussions in the previous reference when we heard various criticisms, comments and so on that we are so very nearly united this time. But I certainly think he's a magician. Matthew Tonin is capable of performing this function, whether temporarily or permanently. He has many years of experience as an MP. He has a policy like that in his blood, he's a trained politician, if I say so myself. As the leader of the parliamentary group, he also gained a lot of experience on how this national assembly works. From this point of view, he can certainly perform this function well. Nova Slovenija is and will be constructive, no matter what the future coalition, left, left, centred, right, right or whatever will be. Even so far, we have always supported good proposals and everything that has been good for citizens. Today, when I vote for mag. At the same time, I will not vote for the new coalition as has been said. Then we would exceed our powers, because the coalition in Nova Slovenije is decided by the party's authorities. Of course, I want the coalition to be such that it also fulfils our programme. I think New Slovenia has a good program, many say it is the best, and we know what needs to be done in Slovenia. However, if I think about how the last coalition worked, then I am skeptical that the same parties can act entirely differently in the new term. And more clients would be in this coalition. Of course, citizens expect us to have solutions and to do what Slovenia needs. Like I said, mags support. Matthew Tonin is not yet automatically supported by the new coalition. But I want this coalition to be effective. Above all, I believe that the coalition agreement or treaty, or whatever it is called, must be transparent, clear, effective and then enforced. And not that for a year or two before the new elections we have heard disputes between the parties, that we no longer know who the coalition is, who is responsible for anything, who is not, because I think that is what citizens expect us to do as much as possible to meet what Slovenia needs. This period, when we are in a certain position to bring this meeting to a close today, who will become President of the new Parliament, will be resolved in this way and thus enable the work of the National Assembly to continue and, I hope, the assembly of the government. It is certainly good for the country to have it as soon as possible, to be responsible, effective and to work for citizens and the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Novak. The victory of the Elinčič noble has retreated. The word is Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u34	Dear colleagues, a good day and a sincere congratulations to all for your election! It is my desire that the National Assembly act constructively, in this mandate, to be able to sometimes exceed any difference in the welfare of citizens and citizens. Last but not least, we're not working for ourselves, for our client, for our political group, but for the good of the people. And we're not doing what's right, we're doing what's right. When the elections took place on 3 June, and on the basis of the results of the elections, we quickly assessed that the country with this national assembly could have fallen into a political situation, political confusion, Gordy's knot, recorded by the media, and that something must be done. We cannot afford a dead race based on the political situation not only in Slovenia but also on the international scene. The circumstances are such that the political dead race for Slovenia is by no means taken into account. In this light, in New Slovenia, which is good for citizens and the country, we have done what we can to propose to the president of mags. Matthew Tonin as President of the National Assembly. That's good for Slovenia. In all the political conflicts since the elections, we have accepted responsibility in New Slovenia and broken down this Gordy knot, this political blockade that has taken place. Matthew Tonin has all the qualities and abilities to be a good president of the National Assembly. He is dialogueal, he knows the structure, he knows the work of the National Assembly, he also knows the procedures, he is a man capable of overcoming differences and taking into account different opinions. And most importantly, this decision to make a mag. Today, Matthew Tonin becomes president of the National Assembly, especially one big signal that the National Assembly is sometimes able to take a step over the left, over the right and over the prestigious political games. So I'm very happy about these decisions. As for further procedures, of course, to arrive in due course, this is good for the country and for the new coalition, and in this connection New Slovenia is next. We have a very good economic programme. This was also the case with economists. For this reason, New Slovenia will continue to negotiate, because it is right that we are committed to dialogue. We need to talk and look for solutions. This is done by responsible political groups. We will continue to defend lower taxes so that we can give people higher wages, regulate health care, order in health care and that this country will be a fair country for all citizens and citizens. Personally, I'd be happy to support the mag. Matthew Tonin, President of New Slovenia, President of the National Assembly, because this is good for this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u35	Thank you very much for your comment. Mrs Iva Dimic and please, if Mr. Joseph Horvat is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I think that in the last six years, since we have been Christian Democrats in the National Assembly, we have been introducing a slightly different policy into Slovenia. We are talking about politics, about respect for human life from beginning to natural death. I think that those of you who have had the opportunity to accompany us in our actions in recent years have learned this serious intention in our efforts. That's why, as a colleague, Member of Mag. Matthew Tonin, I believe he has also gained your trust and your support in the National Assembly. I wish that we could truly work for what we are set up to do for the well-being of the people, for the well-being of the patients, for the well-being of the retired, the elderly. We have a long-term supply ahead of us, which will have to be resolved in this mandate, and we have waited four years for it. When I look back on my fellow Members, some of them remain, I see that there are slightly fewer women in this call of the National Assembly, which means that politics may not yet be suitable for women or younger women. That is why I want, and also my expectations here to my fellow Member, Matthew Tonin, it is great that the National Assembly will be the first organisation in the country to allow women and mothers to coordinate family and professional life.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u38	Thank you again, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I'm calling again from this town. Those of us who were involved in the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, although not in this house, perhaps as mobilizers in territorial defence, are in this day, because no one is likely to blame us for this, a little euphoric. We are just ahead of the biggest public holiday, the day of statehood, the birthday of our country, and we are somehow automatically thinking about what has happened in these years from 25 June 1991 to today. Perhaps it is right that this constitutional meeting falls during this holiday period. It's a holiday season. Although I am a little sad when I look at some local communities, which, thank God, are organizing congregation celebrations at a state holiday, some of them are not, but that where they are, sometimes participation is very ployal, as we no longer know how to appreciate this country. When we think about what happened at that time — a lot has happened, a lot has happened. We have become a member of the European Union, we have become a member of NATO, we have achieved much, and we have certainly overlooked many problems. Each of the politicians can call mea culpa, our fault. But today is once again an opportunity when we can motivate each other and also make promises to our constituents, and we are particularly aware of what this means, in fact, that people have entrusted us with their voice and allowed us to sit 90 here today. Do not sit down to work to take solutions for the benefit of this country, the whole country, ladies and gentlemen, not just central Slovenia. Today's session is certainly not intended for inventory. But surely we can say how we want to proceed. But it is true, as colleague Han said, that we are actually cutting today, or that we are probably going to cut through some sort of human resources node, that we are going to prevent this national assembly from being set up or paralyzed. We will therefore have a constitutional legislative branch of power, the National Assembly, if, of course, we elect the President of the National Assembly. From here on out, substantive negotiations are actually starting. Here are the leaders of the parties, especially those who have received the biggest voter support. I would like it myself, given the experience of the previous coalitions, but this is only my wish that the new coalition treaty would indeed be a contract and that it would be very accurately written as a timetable. There are countries that have such a treaty in the European Union. Why is that so specific? So that within the coalition there is no more room for maneuvering. I prefer to see that the negotiations are about a month longer, so that really that contract will be a big start. My support for my colleague, Mate Tonin, has already been told, and I support him as interim president of the National Assembly. As a matter of fact, we're negotiating content from here on out. There's still no coalition with today's election. As has already been said by my colleague Ludmila, and so is probably also the decision of other parties to enter or exit from the coalition, at least in Novi Slovenije, the authorities of the party, which is the highest authority between the two congresses. I really wish you all dear colleagues one successful work, patience, cooperation and, above all, a great deal of culture in the parliamentary dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, who I must apologize to because I had previously announced him as "you". That's English, and I apologize to him. I didn't want any disspectors. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u40	It's no big deal to the president. I accept your apology. Have a nice hello to everyone again. Initially, for the first time, the Institute of Temporary President of the National Assembly does not exist. Today we are going to elect the President of the National Assembly, and the fact is that it was usually the first indication of what the outline of the upcoming coalition would be. So you can't ignore that fact. That is also why we cannot agree to the theory that now the cut is of any kind and then the time for content will come. But on the contrary, this knot must have just tightened. As we have already said in our position, before and immediately after the elections, Levi has entered this enabling period in such a way that we have advocated that we want political change, that we want to talk to potential actors about content, and that we should put it all together before any hunt for functions or political bargaining. These were also our clear signals to those with whom we spoke and insist. But today's dissension that we are witnessing to him today is the opposite. What is happening today or what has happened in these hours is due to the fact that it is precisely because of the personal interests or wishes of individual members of different parties or representatives of different parties that have failed to provide 46 votes that may be possible, including with the support of the Left to confirm a candidate who could represent this medium in practice. This was probably also a pretext for a compromise that we are now witnessing at the same time, a compromise with the right. I think we need to touch again on what the Institute of the President of the National Assembly will be incarcerated by a colleague of mags. In fact, it represented a ton over the next few months or longer. It will present aspirations, and we have also listened to this in the praise of his client colleagues, after the privatisation of health care, will present demands for the sale of what is left of state property, will impose tax reduction requirements, so that we will probably come into this crisis with an empty state treasury against the end of the mandate or when a possible new crisis occurs. And what we cannot avoid is that it raises a very big question, and this was also heard from several NSI debaters, one big question over the constitutionally guaranteed right to abortion. This is something that should not have happened in 2018 and definitely something that would have been one of the key reasons for denying support to such a candidate for one of the most prestigious functions in that country. These are the grounds for what the future coalition will be like. I think that's more than clear. And this is a coalition, I fear that this fear will remain, which will continue to adhere to a harsh neoliberal policy, which is, of course, not concerned about citizens and citizens, despite what we have heard in the positions and debates. But don't let this be a totally deficient position, so don't let this be understood as throwing any rifle into the corn. In Levi, we will insist that people's lives will be changed for the better. Once again, if this environment, as it is called, has changed its mind if it is willing to put actual content ahead of political recruitment, before political bargaining, we are still ready to talk. But actual conversations, so we start talking.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u41	Thank you, Dr. Vatovec. With this we have reached the end of the list of debaters. Does Mr Marjan Sarec also wish to make a closing statement? No, no, no. Thank you. So we've closed this part of the session. We're moving to the vote. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the election of the President of the National Assembly, the Assembly shall decide by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret ballot shall be held by a committee composed of the President and four Members elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the President. The temporary heads of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for a member and a member of the committee leading the vote. These are: Franc Breznik Slovenian Democratic Party, Andreja Zabret, List of Marjan Šarca, Predrag Baković, Social Democrats, and Janja Sluga, Party of Modern Centre. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. My right hand will also be involved in the work of the Commission, Deputy Secretary-General Jernej Bergoč. Does anyone object to this proposal for a commission? If not, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 85 votes against none. [[The vote was 85.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission on the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the President's table and by the President's name and address, and we shall give it further. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word “for” or the word “against”. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with Article 84 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the President will be elected if the majority of all Members vote for him, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the hall in the voting booths on my right. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which is at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the voting material. The vote will start at 4:10 p.m., ten minutes in four, and it will last up to 16.25 plus a possible five-minute standstill if there is any sneezing or sneezing. After the vote, I ask Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in voting to meet again immediately in room 217. I interrupt the 3rd item of the agenda and the first meeting of the assembly to be resumed from 16.45. Thank you. (The sitting was suspended at 15.55 p.m. and resumed at 16.45 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u42	We continue our adjourned session for the election of the President of the National Assembly. Here I have a record of the Commission's finding the outcome of the vote to elect the Magi. Matthew Tonin as President of the National Assembly. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 22 June 2018. 90 ballots were distributed, loudspeakers per household. 90 was committed, only 1 was invalid, which is good. There were 89 in force, 80 in favour and 9 in favour. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mag. Mr Matthew Tonin was elected President of the National Assembly by the majority of the votes of all Members. Congratulations, Mr. Tonin. [[Applause]] At this point, I say goodbye from this chair. / applause/ I invite the newly elected President of the National Assembly to come and chair the meeting. This concludes item 3 of the agenda. Thank you for the help and patience you've had with me, and I'll see you soon, at work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-06-22-SDZ8-Redna-01.ana.u43	My fellow Members, my fellow Members, thank you very much. The support is exceptional, which I am grateful to you for. I'm aware of the responsibility you've placed on me with this. I will do everything I can to bring your support today to fruition. As President of the National Assembly, I will make sure that every voice is heard. My responsibility is that none of you will be left behind. I sincerely thank today's President, who has done his work extremely. Congratulations shall also be extended to all Members and Members of Parliament for their election. Our commitment must be to work for the good of our people and our country. We are all representatives of the people together, so we are obliged to talk and, above all, to participate in the good of Slovenia. The search for differences usually leads to problems and the search for common points leads to solutions. I see today's election as the President of the National Assembly as the first step towards stabilising the Slovenian political space. With my election, this is how we resolve a situation where Parliament could lose its President. Despite the extremely divided Parliament, today's communication is positive to the Slovenian public. When this is really going on, Slovenian policy is able to agree and find a solution, even a solution that goes beyond the classic block division, which is certainly remarkable. This is a good meal for future challenges that are great and that are waiting for us. I will do my utmost to complete as quickly as possible all the procedures necessary to establish the National Assembly and to form its working bodies. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out the need for the establishment of the Foreign Policy Committee as soon as possible, before which decisions are important. I am also aware that Slovenia needs a development government as soon as possible. As President of the National Assembly, I will do everything in my power and within my powers to obtain such a government quickly. The challenges facing Slovenia are important. Society is getting older, young people are going abroad, and we are already running out of labor today. Health care is in bad shape, unfortunately people can't get treatment at the right time. The international situation is not pink either. The European Union faces difficult security issues in its immediate and distant neighbourhood. Differences and disagreements between individual Member States are also increasing. There are also signs of a cooling down of the European economy, which we need to prepare ourselves as a country in time. If we want to successfully overcome these challenges, Slovenia must breathe with both lungs, left and right. Finally, let me add that my election today will not be an obstacle to the future coalition. Today, we do not know what the coalition will be like. However, when the new coalition is known and a new government is formed, I am ready to withdraw from the presidency of the National Assembly. I want everyone to do their mission as best as possible and to ensure the future for Slovenia and the Slovenians, which we will all be proud of. God lives Slovenia! /Applause/ Ambassadors and Members, all I have left is to conclude the first meeting of the National Assembly. I'm informing you that in five minutes we'll be in the hall first, and then we'll do group photography on the stairs. Members and Members who are not currently in the Chamber are kindly invited to join us. After a group photo shoot, I invite Members and Members to the lobby of the great hall. Thank you so much for everything for today. We have shown that we can step together and that we can take concrete steps for a better future. I also wish all Members and Members a nice holiday weekend. Good luck! The meeting was closed on 22 June 2018 at 16.53 p.m.
