ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 38th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Susanna Lepi Šimenko, Andreja Potočnik until 3 p.m., Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer from 12.30 p.m. to 15 p.m. and from 16 p.m. to 6.30 p.m., Ksenija Korenjak Kramar to 17 p.m., Urška Ban to 16 p.m., Maruša Škopac, Jelka Godec from 15 p.m., Nada Brinovšek from 15 p.m., Violeta Tomić from 18.30 p.m., Zvonko Lah, Peter Wilfan, Franz Breznik, Tomaj Lisec, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovac until 10 p.m.m. and from 16 p.m., Matjaž Hanžek to 16 p.m., Ivan Prelog to 17 p.m., Marko Ferluga from 13 to 15 p.m. Matthew Tonin from 16:00 p.m., Primož Hainz from 13 till 16:00 and Franc Ly. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, this is another defence proposal for a law amending the law on the organisation and financing of cultivation and education following a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. The bill is being proposed at the 41st session of the 30th. 1. 2018 treated the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u2	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! It is interesting that this amendment of the law has been under consideration for the fourth time, and there is no hope that it will be adopted this time. As before, it has been rejected, but in Novi Slovenija we will also support this amendment of the law this time. Why? Because it eliminates unconstitutionality. The Constitutional Court ordered the National Assembly to abolish disproportionate or unfair financing of public programmes in private primary schools. When we listened to the President of the Government yesterday, what this government has done in four years, how it has improved the situation in the country, how it has reduced the country's indebtedness, it is quite amazing that this same government has not found a good 300 000 euros a year to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. That's just amazing. It is also amazing that this very government, which is run by a lawyer and has several lawyers, is unable to comply with the Constitutional Court’s decision. In New Slovenia we are also surprised by the attitude of this national assembly and government towards everything called a private initiative. Instead of rewarding people, encouraging them to have new ideas that they want to bring to the country something new, self-initiative, bring some changes to the community, in this case also new educational approaches, we treat them as stepmothers, we reject them as undesirable non-justices that consume money to public or state schools. These schools only carry out public primary education programmes prescribed by the rules of the State. This is also not about investments, it is about investment maintenance, it is about the implementation of a public investment programme. These schools must not operate on profits either, they are non-profitable, but we place additional obstacles on them. Parents, parents, who see such different pedagogical approaches as a source of wealth, or something good for their children, were inspired to do so. Such schools are only six and only one of them or the programme is financed 100% by the state, while the remaining are only 85%. But it's just that public service program, while all the extra activities have to be paid by parents with tuition. When we talk about a private initiative — why are we so afraid of it? Not only does it encourage people to be more creative, self-sustaining, it brings new jobs, but it also encourages a rich country as well as the whole. These new schools, new pedagogical approaches have also enriched public education and some methods have also been transferred to state schools because they are simply good. Such initiatives, such approaches should simply not be feared in any field. Not in health, education, economy, nowhere. Such initiatives must be welcome and welcome. That's the only way we're gonna make any progress. And last but not least, schools like this are cheaper for the country. Because the founder has to take care of the building himself, he has to build it, carry out activities in it. Only this right of parents to choose where to put their child in school is this right possible. New Slovenia will support this law. Especially because it complies with the decision of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u3	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u4	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Respected and respected! The members of the draft law on the working body have not been adopted, so the proposal for a law amending the law on the organisation and financing of education and education in the home labour system has been completed and is therefore no longer being voted on. This is where we could end up. Everything has already been said in the previous three unsuccessful attempts by the proposer to exercise the interests of private education and to poor public education in the long term. But since the debate on the entry into the field of the public for the Social Democrats is decisive for the future of this country, we continue to repeat briefly the arguments why such a paradigm of school policy should be firmly said. They differ in their public and private interests. In the field of education, this is reflected in the specificity of a private one based on ideological, secular, religious or even political foundations. Equalization of private and public support would constitute an unacceptable step towards entering the private into public and vice versa, which is either totally unacceptable or directly contrary to a number of constitutional aspects in terms of establishing the appearance of such extensive state support. Public and private differences also vary in the scope of the services they provide, with private school obligations significantly lower than those of public schools. The private school must only carry out part of the subject. It must provide only minimal knowledge. It is not subject to non-binding provisions on educational periods, on the school calendar on the design of classes, on departments and teaching groups, on the implementation of educational work, on the simultaneous presence of teachers and teachers in the first class. Private school is not subject to staff restrictions on who can work in the extended living units, morning protection, and has also been relaxed on the competence of staff and could also be listed. Finally, they differ publicly and privately in terms of openness and funding. Private schools in law reserved the right to choose students. The Law on Primary Schools leaves the decision to enroll students in a private school to a private school. However, public school needs to be accessible to everyone, including the child who wants to study from a private school. And that's right. In addition to many sources of funding, private schools also have generous support from public funds, the right to charge fees, which unfortunately are not eliminated by the proposed text of the applicant. Respected and respected! In previous discussions, the Social Democrats sought an answer to the question of where to draw the border between public and private. In response, we have drafted a proposal to amend the Constitution to remedy the legal inadequacy reflected in the diametrically opposed positions of several decisions of the Constitutional Court. This would establish the primary concern of the State for public education, while maintaining the smooth functioning of private education. Others, disregarding the constitutional importance of the provision on the social state and the consequences, sought ways of simply deleting the border between the public and the private. Notwithstanding the absence of a definitive response due to the ratio of forces in the National Assembly, there has been a clear delimitation indicating the conduct of political groups in the coming term. The public education system is the central building block of the social state. Every day, regardless of the environment from which it originates, it provides access to the world’s knowledge and, consequently, to a secure future. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that such a future must be ensured for all and, in particular, for the weaker to create an enabling environment that will also do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u5	The word is given by the Left Messenger Group, for her Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u6	Good-bye! We have a fourth attempt on the right to finance private schools with a publicly recognised programme. There's been a coalition compromise meltdown in our midst. In Levica, we have always made clear the position that they should be private and publicly separated, and that public education is what the state must take care of. Since the early 1990s, we have had attempts to lower the foundations of public education. More damage was done in high school and luckily in secondary and primary education. The arguments why private and public primary schools are not the same have been heard hundreds of times in this mandate. But the supporters of full funding don't convince these arguments. Of course, because it's not about arguments, but it's about interests and it's about ideology. We know that, with the exception of one exception, private primary schools are in one way or another linked to the Roman Catholic Church. As we could read in the media, among the last candidates for a publicly recognised programme is also the private school Lila, which is supposed to learn from concepts of yoga philosophy which equally takes into account body, emotions, will and mind. In school, children have only vegetarian diets. In short, only a public school is a guarantee for a secular curriculum. Public primary school also deserves criticism, it is true, but the key is to improve this public school, not to lower it with private schools. Private schools select and choose their students, public school takes everyone. This is essential for ensuring social equality and equality. In Slovenia, according to an international study on the literacy of PIRLS, the differences between children with higher socio-economic status and those with poor socio-economic status have increased by about one third in reading literacy over the last 15 years. Private schools in our country are established for specific populations or for special pedagogics, confessions or other views, not for everyone. In this respect, private schools at social level operate in a separate way. Where things really need to be separated, however, they are strictly between public and private. That is why we have also participated in this mandate in an attempt to change the constitution, which unfortunately did not come through the parliamentary mill, in order to separate public and private education at constitutional level. But in spite of this, when the socialists take over the power, we will take away from private schools the public funding they have, and the difference will be diverted to public school, a change in the constitution, or no change in the constitution. In Levi, we oppose the changes proposed by the SDS. We oppose them because we firmly support the laity, quality and accessible public education for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u7	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, for whom Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u8	Thank you very much. All right, everybody, welcome! We are not harmonised in the Group of Non-Aligned Members on State funding for private primary schools. We are in the Alenka Bratušek Party for even better public education, so we want the financing of public and private primary schools in the constitution. It would make clear what it actually says – that the state has to finance only public primary schools and private schools can finance only if it wants to. There is an important difference between public and private schools. In the State primary school, children must have a place and the state must finance public primary schools and children can have a place in private schools, so the state can finance their activities if it so wishes. He must write so clearly in the constitution. If we had written this down in the constitution, as we proposed in 2015, and in January 2015, we would no longer be wasting our time today, but we would already have a solution. Let me add that we have nothing against private schools, because they can also enrich school space, but the state funding for schools should not be the same for public and private schools. That would be a mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u9	The text is addressed to Mr Saša Tabaković, the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The new Law on the organisation and financing of education and education has been introduced several times into the parliamentary procedure, some solely with a view to implementing a constitutional decision that the parliamentary groups understand in their own way, and some have been introduced on the basis of a broader reflection and development concept, which, in addition to the constitutional decision, has also addressed the pervasive nature of today’s time – how to fairly unlock public and private education in a way that protects and promotes quality public education and a private initiative to give a welcome place as a complement to the choice. All these legislative processes show that the education story in Slovenia has a long beard and that political harassment and disagreements will result, unfortunately, as a cherry on a cake by a decision of the Constitutional Court, which will probably be forced to implement the last constitutional decision without actually being circumcised with the social consequences of what it entails. Despite the fact that the Constitutional Court has only established in its decision a distinction between the compulsory and extended work of the primary school curriculum, as is the case in the current law, which was the greatest stumbling block, and this is very bad. Let me remind you. The Government or the Ministry has drawn up a comprehensive legislative review of the open issues required after the spillover of public and private primary education. The Legislative and Legal Service has also found that the Government's amendment to the law eliminates unconstitutionality, as confirmed by a quote from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly from the 33rd Regular Meetings of the Education Committee, I quote: "The law provides for a different amount of funding for the compulsory work of primary education programmes in public and private schools, which is why, in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, it also implements the decision of the Constitutional Court." End of quote. However, ideological and conceptual trenches were simply too deep. Greater political will, dear citizens and citizens, in order to create the problem created by the Constitutional Court, has once and for all gone, and only for the reason that it is simply too convenient for the political structure of the established parties. In the SMC, we sincerely wanted the professional and reasoned debate not to replace exclusively the political language which can have the most undesirable effects for the school space itself and the children who visit it. Unfortunately, we were left in this desire more than we were alone. That is why we do not agree with the Lithuanians on ethics and respect for law, because, given the subject of political responsibility, it is on all Members and Members of all the Members of Parliament. This means that responsibility is mutual. The opportunity to save her was given with a government novel — wide, deep, right, and just. However, there was no political will for her and probably never will be. And that's what we're worried about. In particular, when we read the bomb headlines of some media because the policy finally wants to regulate private education, it is constrained by some esteemed lawyers who, given the public appearance, are extremely politicalally useful to exercise bureaucratic fascism over education. Your Honor! For example, bureaucratic fascism has allowed the State to establish private colleges as mushrooms in the rain until last year's amendment of the Law on Higher Education, with various calls in the past significantly receiving public funds. However, students who still paid their tuition could only be wiped out under their noses after completion of the study because the programmes were not adequately accredited. That's amazing! This all points only to the fact that whenever public-private education issues are opened in politics, automatic fertilisation with unconstitutionality is also started automatically, usually by those who benefit the most. Ideology and money. This is a poor travel for the Slovenian school system, which is quantitatively and qualitatively breathing on starches. So once again, responsibility is always mutual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u11	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u12	Thank you. It is interesting how the largest ruling party says that there was no political will in the National Assembly to remedy the unconstitutional or constitutional irregularities that occur in the Education and Education Financing Act within four years. The political will is on the side of the ruling parties and apparently the ruling parties have not been able to unify the financing of private schools. Our third proposal, i.e. the third, follows a decision of the Constitutional Court, which clearly and loudly states that, according to the Constitution, this programme should be financed by 100 % of private schools or schools implementing a public programme. The Constitutional Court also stated in December 2014 that this unconstitutionality must be abolished within one year. From 2014 to 2018, the ruling coalition failed to do so in almost four years. We have tabled this proposal three times, apparently it will be rejected for the third time. In the meantime, the Government's proposal, including the coalition's proposals, was also rejected. It is unusual that the ruling party and the other parties in the coalition say they have tried to eliminate unconstitutionality. It is interesting that with three different suggestions. If we follow the Constitutional Court's decision clearly and loudly, we cannot make three different proposals. First, to finance the mandatory programme 100% extended 85%, then even 100-0, at the end of 100-65 and today, behind this speaker stage, you all claim that you tried or that at least in the ruling SMC party you followed the Constitutional Court's decision. Three different proposals for such a clear decision by the Constitutional Court cannot definitely be what eliminates unconstitutionality. To say that, when a public programme at any school implementing a public programme is financed by 100 per cent in order to make it public, the interference of the private in public is, according to the household, larifari or voter fraud. Already, the Education and Education Financing Act states that the public programme in schools implementing this programme is financed by 85%. So, isn't that the transition now? It's one of the deceptions. Another disappointment is that because of financing private schools, they would finance the elite, and that various research shows that literacy in those who are more educated or socially disadvantaged is better than in those who are not. This has nothing to do with private schools. This only has to do with the education system. It would be better if those who claim to do so show statistics whether it is true that there is better literacy in private schools than in public schools. We have a network of public schools, which is good and is also protected in the law on financing education and education. A private school cannot be established where a public school is at risk, so we do not have private schools in smaller places. What do you say, the ruling coalition? Some of you or most of you here in the middle will not be in your next term, and you will not take this responsibility. They will probably take over the second, and it is sad that, as the former President of the Constitutional Court, Mr Mozetič, and the current President of the Constitutional Court, Jadranka Sovdat, have said, that the legislator is unable to resolve the matter within four years, and will probably be decided by the Constitutional Court in the future, in my opinion as soon as possible. You left a thousand 200 children on hold for 350 thousand euros a year. This is the money that you find difficult to give for children or for children's education, but it is not a problem to set up new offices where new money is being spent, it is not a problem for you to make laws that will continue to provide new funds when you are no longer in Parliament or in the government, so that is no problem for you. However, it is a problem to educate children and thus to mislead people by financing private schools also those subjects that are special to private schools, such as religion and ethics, which, of course, is not true. The Constitutional Court therefore firmly stated that public programmes should be financed 100 %, irrespective of who the founder is. We are still in favour of this in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and we will, and I believe that the Constitutional Court will also continue to judge this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u13	The text is given by the Desus Group, Mrs Marinka Levičar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u14	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear, dear, well greeted! This mandate will certainly be marked by the fact that we have not been able to eliminate in any way, in the view of the Constitutional Court, the lack of adequate funding for private primary schools. The Constitutional Court has given us a starting point on what kind of arrangement it should be, and it has not been possible for this assembly to unify the solution by a sufficient majority even during the constitutional change procedure or the government novel. Despite the appropriate starting point for amending the Constitution, which, according to the assessment of the Desus Group, should take place before matter should be further regulated in the law itself, the question of the separation between public and private in the field of primary school remains open for the next reference to the National Assembly. I'm sorry. In doing so, we stress that our Group of Members will not change the position that we have clearly expressed when we consider the Government's amendment to the law. We will not support the proposal of the SDS to fully finance private schools, i.e. 100 % for compulsory schools as well as for an extended programme. We believe in a social state, in common good and in public systems that must be equally accessible to all and of quality. Private primary schools are certainly not accessible to all school-bound children, and they are certainly public. For us, private primary schools also represent some kind of superstandard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u15	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. This concludes item 7 of the agenda. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, that is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the road laws. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u16	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Members and Members! The amendment of the Roads Act, the original aim of which was, in particular, to regulate the problem of the carriage of goods by motorways and expressways and the partial implementation of the European Directive with regard to the establishment of systems for the identification of overloaded cargo vehicles, also address certain issues which in practice have to be addressed as a matter of urgency due to their lack of clarity or the possibility of different interpretations. Allow me to introduce to you the more important news of this time's novel of the Road Law. The newly established system of transport on motorways and fast roads damaged and damaged vehicles is without prejudice to the rights of users, as it does not introduce any innovation for users, except in the works so that only the operator of the transport of vehicles with which Dars will enter into a contract after the invitation to tender has been issued will be able to carry out the transport of the goods. The contract operator of the removal of vehicles will be able to charge its service in accordance with the price list, where the maximum prices that can be charged for each service will be determined. By defining the common transport area as a transport area, conditions are laid down to enable it to be put into practice. This is a part of a public road marked with a prescribed traffic signal and can be used simultaneously by all road users, with the amendment of the road traffic law only defining the traffic surface, while the rules of conduct of road users on this surface will be laid down by the Road Traffic Rules Act. An important novelty is the possibility of establishing an experimental traffic regime on a state road. This creates conditions on the basis of which the effects of traffic signalling can be verified in practice, which is not yet known by the current legislation. Today we do not have such an instrument, which makes it impossible to verify the effectiveness of new approaches in this field or practices that have already proven effective abroad and have had positive effects on transport safety. Following verification of the effects of road traffic signalling, it will proceed to decide whether the solution in question is generally usable and, as such, appropriate to be prescribed as mandatory. The principle of comprehensive emergency transport arrangements is passed on from the Drivers Act to the provisions relating to the training of emergency transport escorts. At the same time, the scope of the training of emergency transport escorts remains largely the same as the current one. In order to allow for the uniform introduction of data on infringements of the maximum permitted dimensions and masses of vehicles into the national electronic register, criminal provisions in this regard shall be laid down in the manner prescribed by European legislation, while penalties for infringements in this regard shall remain predominantly within the framework of the currently prescribed provisions. In accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, however, I propose that the third consideration of the bill be carried out at the same meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u17	The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u18	Mr President, thank you for saying so. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 37th session. 1. 2018 as a parent working body has considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Roads Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. In a supplementary explanation, on behalf of the applicant, the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Gasperšič, explained that the draft law deals in particular with the problem of removing damaged and damaged freight vehicles on motorways and fast roads, which has recently proved to be one of the most critical factors affecting road safety. The newly installed system for the disposal of damaged and damaged vehicles on motorways and fast roads for users introduces innovations only in order to enable the removal of the cargo vehicle to be carried out only by the operator of the removal of vehicles with which the operator of the motorway or the fast road will conclude a contract after the tender has been made. The contract operator of the removal of vehicles will be able to charge its service in accordance with the price list, where the maximum prices that can be charged for each service will be determined. The draft law also introduces the definition of the so-called common transport area; the possibility of setting up an experimental traffic regime on a public road; Directive 2015/719 is transposed into the Slovenian legal order in the work relating to the establishment of vehicle identification systems or groups of vehicles which, alone or together with the cargo, exceed the permissible mass; and the provisions of the Drivers Act relating to the escort of extraordinary transport or the training of emergency transport escorts are also transposed. The draft law also lays down criminal provisions relating to infringements of the rules on maximum permissible measures and masses of road vehicles in a way that will allow for the uniform introduction of data on infringements into the national electronic register. Due to numerous violations in the area of the establishment of public information and advertising facilities along state roads, an increase in fines is proposed in this area. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that the Legislative and Legal Service had drawn up a written opinion on the proposal for a law, which contained some specific comments on the individual articles which were taken into account in the amendments of the coalition groups. However, two comments were submitted by the applicant in an additional written explanation. The draft law was also addressed by the National Council, which supports the bill because it contains some good solutions, but the Council of State regrets that the bill has failed to align its views with the community associations on the financial obligations of municipalities in the area of the construction of state roads and the maintenance of transport areas along state roads in settlements. During the discussion, a fellow Member from the left-wing group, Dr. Trček, expressed the view that frequent advertising has a negative impact on transport safety, as attractive ads attract the attention of drivers and that certain colour or light markings may be replaced by or even overlap with traffic signals. In view of examples from abroad where the safety-belts have been placed substantially longer or road advertising is completely prohibited, he called for the support of their amendment to Article 25 of the bill to move the safety-belt on all state roads to 100 metres. On the contrary, it was stated by the SDS Group that the applicable lengths of the safety belt were not problematic and sufficient attention should be paid to the monitoring of the safety-belt by advertisers and support was expressed for the increase of fines to violators under this Title. They also highlighted the warnings given by the congregations through the State Council. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u19	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the left-wing group, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! Green Slovenia has been facing various types of pollution for decades. In the face of pollution of the earth, water, air, and air, other types of pollution — noise, smell, and light pollution — are becoming increasingly prevalent. One such pollution is visual pollution with jumbo posters and other types of overuse of advertising boards. These are increasingly concentrated along inter-terrestrial roads and main meat products. The amendments and additions to the Roads Act are, in most cases, of a technical nature and we will not oppose them in Levica. This time, however, the amendment of the law also opens a very important article regulating road advertising, so in Levica we have tabled an amendment for today's meeting of the National Assembly, whereby we want to prohibit roadside advertising following the example of companies and countries thinking of themselves within 100 metres of all categories of countries of the road. Why? For advertising, it spends mountains of money to make people want mostly unnecessary things and services. Our aim is to limit advertising, starting with roadside advertising, first by state roads and then by municipal roads. The first most important reason for this is to increase traffic safety. External advertising can have an important impact on transport safety. Attractive, too often sexist ads attract the attention of drivers, and certain colors or light markings may be interchangeable by traffic signaling or even conceal it. The billing of posters and other forms of street advertising is about so-called eye-catchers. It's about commercials that, in their image and message, attract the attention of drivers. Instead of looking at the road, drivers and drivers watch commercials. The consequences can be fatal. Another reason for the ban on road advertising is the change in urban and natural landscapes in a way that is in the interest of only capital. It is a matter of visual pollution, and some glowing ads are also excess energy consumers. The electricity it supplies today comes mainly from fossil fuels. In addition, such ads cause light pollution, which makes us sleep worse, and which, after all, blinds us to the starry night sky. It is probably not a coincidence that among the first to limit such pollution, the leading countries and regions in the area of responsible shared tourism are from neighbouring Austria and France to Hawaii. Public space, the space of all of us is under ever-increasing attack by advertisers. With the adoption of the amendment, we can protect at least the area along state roads. The proposal is nothing radical; only sober reflection is proposed. The ban on advertising on state roads within the 100-metre band is already in force in Austria. In France, they have a limit within the 200m belt. Similar arrangements exist in some federal states at the heart of the world capitalist economy in the United States. All these countries have identified the harmful effects of roadside advertising on transport safety and on the quality of life of people and have thus limited or even banned such advertising. There is no reason for us not to do so in Slovenia, especially if we want to, quote: “Slovenia has become a green, active and healthy destination for five-star experiences.” End of quote. As set out in the strategy for the sustainable growth of Slovenian tourism. We will not oppose the amendments and amendments to the Law on Roads in Levica. However, if our amendment, which eliminates advertising pollution along state roads, is adopted, we will vote in favour of the adoption of this law. If the government coalition thinks seriously with a sustainable strategy for the growth of Slovenian tourism, then the support of the coalition of amendments to the Left is self-evident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u21	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected minister with a team, respectable colleagues and colleagues! With amendments and additions to the Roads Act, some important innovations have been introduced that have an impact on ensuring a sufficient level of traffic safety on motorways and on fast roads. One of the most important solutions introduced by this law is the problem of removing goods vehicles from motorways and fast roads and damaged and damaged cargo vehicles. A legal basis is in place for Dars to be able to select the authorised contractor by contract by invitation to tender while at the same time fixing the maximum prices for these services. The latter is necessary since, according to the law in force in road traffic rules, the driver has to take care of the removal of the vehicle himself in the case of a stopped vehicle. As a result, traffic safety was compromised if the drivers did not arrange in time, which was most often the case. In recent times, there have also been several cases of serious problems and abuse of foreign truck drivers by our domestic, i.e. car hauliers who charged them unreasonablely high prices for these services. It is therefore essential that these problems be regulated in such a way that the damaged vehicle can only be removed by the operator of the removal of vehicles in a contractual relationship with the operator, i.e. Dars, in order to ensure safe and correct conduct in these cases. In addition, this area will also be managed in a uniform and transparent manner. The law also implements European legislation dealing with the establishment of systems for the identification of overloaded cargo vehicles. The Directive establishing the maximum permitted dimensions of certain road vehicles in the Community in internal and international traffic and the maximum permitted weights in international traffic provides that vehicles or groups of vehicles which, alone or together with the cargo, exceed the permissible and prescribed mass shall be identified by means of automatic data-collection devices for vehicles or groups of vehicles installed or installed on, on or in a public road vehicle. The intended means of identifying overloaded vehicles shall be established by the road operator by May 2021 at the latest. The novel also refers to other areas where the need for a clearer interpretation of the existing law has proved to be in practice. For today's debate, there are only two amendments; all other proposals for solutions have been adopted by the mother labour body, which relate to the ban on advertising along state roads. In the SMC, in principle, we support solutions aimed at improving the safety of road users, but the amendments proposed are not adequately set out. The proposed solutions, as stated by the applicant, would apply to all roads, including fast, main and regional roads, and not only to motorways, as stated in the first paragraph of the amendment. It also sets an extremely short deadline for the removal of these facilities, which is questionable from the point of view of the feasibility of the measure and the possible damage that could be suffered by the owners of these adverts. Because of the amendments to the bill, we will not support them. However, in the SMC Group, we will support the Road Bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u23	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u24	Honourable Chairman, Honourable Minister with his team, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Roads Act offers some good solutions, but the proposaler did not comply with the Community Association on the financial obligations of municipalities in the area of the construction of state roads and the maintenance of transport areas along state roads in the village. The key problem facing the municipalities is the question of co-financing the construction of state roads and the implementation of transport areas in the settlements themselves. It is not only a matter of providing funds, but also of ensuring compensation and, last but not least, a property legal aspect. The municipality finances the construction of sidewalks along the state road and also maintains them, and at the end of the construction it becomes the country's own. This raises the question of equality of municipalities, since in practice the scope of funding often depends on the bargaining power or the power of the individual municipality. In order to avoid the current different powers of financing public roads in settlements, the distinction between the State and the municipality should be clearly and precisely defined. The proposal for this segment explains that the coordination of the state and the municipality takes longer and could be resolved by the next amendment of the law, which means that we remain in the state we now have. Among other things, the law improves the arrangements for the disposal of damaged and damaged vehicles on motorways and fast roads. Due to the current charging practice of disproportionately high car haulage prices, particularly in the case of foreign vehicles, regulation is proposed, the price of these services. The Drivers Act transposes provisions relating to the escort of extraordinary transport or training of emergency transport escorts. We will not oppose the proposed law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u25	The text is given by the Desus Group, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u26	Dear President, distinguished Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, welcome to all! This time, the proposal for a road law seeks to address in particular the problem of removing goods vehicles from motorways and fast roads and damaged and damaged freight vehicles. At the same time, the European Directive on the establishment of systems for the identification of overloaded cargo vehicles is being partially implemented. However, certain issues have also been addressed, which in practice have proved necessary because of the often found lack of clarity or the possibility of different interpretations. In the matter of removing damaged and damaged goods vehicles from motorways and fast roads, such a legal basis is introduced that Dars will be able to select the authorised contractor by contract by public invitation to tender and will also determine the maximum prices for these services. This means that this area will finally be regulated in a uniform and transparent manner. In practice so far, in removing damaged and damaged vehicles, there have often been a number of unfavourable and unsettled situations. At the same time, the proposed amendments to the law mean that all damaged and damaged cargo vehicles can be removed from the whole area of the highway and the fast road, i.e. from the lanes and from the resting places. At the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, the main discussions were on road advertising. While the novelty does not change the regulation of road advertising, it brings new fines for infringements in the area of the establishment of public information and advertising facilities. The fact is, we've been arguing about street advertising ever since. On the one hand, we would like to promote tourism on roads where foreigners enter and travel through our country and on the other hand limit this advertising to a minimum. At the meeting of the parent working body, the general belief prevailed that the applicable lengths of the safety belt were not problematic, but more attention should be paid to the monitoring of the protection band by advertisers and that the proposal to increase fines also received the support of our parliamentary group. In addition, the Desus Group will give support to the proposed amendment to the Roads Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u27	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u28	Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that transport security is a key factor that plays an important role in society, especially in today's global rush, which unfortunately also affects our roads. We welcome the Government's efforts to address the issue of the removal of damaged and damaged trucks on motorways and fast roads, with the current charging practice of disproportionately high car haulage prices, particularly for foreign vehicles, the proposed regulation of the price of these services. The bill brings some other news. Among other things, a European directive relating to the establishment of a vehicle identification system or groups of vehicles exceeding the permissible mass is being transposed into the Slovenian legal order. The deadline for transposition of that Directive expired last May. There is also an increase in fines for a misdemeanour in the area of the establishment of information and advertising facilities along state roads. However, in the New Slovenia Group, we cannot agree with the Government's proposal, which imposes new financial burdens again on the municipalities. We note that the key problem in the field of roads is exactly indirect funding between municipalities and the country. The proposal requires municipalities to co-finance the construction and maintenance of transport areas along state roads. It is unacceptable, for example, that the municipality finances the construction of a sidewalk and a cycling track along the state road, which then becomes state-owned, and that the municipality should take care of maintenance. During this time, the current problem of gliding is in particular the problem of force. It is expected to be dumped from state roads on sidewalks and cycling trails along state roads, which must be cared for by the congregations. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that adequate financing for the construction and maintenance of roads should finally be arranged between the country and the municipality. So the state should ensure the construction and maintenance of state roads and all areas along these roads and that the municipality builds and maintains municipal roads and all areas along them. We believe that it is unacceptable for municipalities to impose additional work and financial burdens, while not increasing their average or providing them with additional resources for all the tasks proposed by the amendment of the law. In the New Slovenia Group, we cannot pass on the fact that the state is transferring tasks to municipalities without the provision of additional financial resources, so we will not support the proposed amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u29	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Since the amendments of the Left Group to the 25th Article and the amendment to the new 41st Article are substantively linked, we will discuss them together. Therefore, I am putting two amendments to Article 25 and to Article 41a to the debate. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, chairman. See, I will repeat what I have quoted earlier: “Slovenia will become a green, active and healthy destination for five-star experiences.” What we are now proposing here has actually been done by all the countries through which we can follow the example of quality tourism. Tourism, where employees also earn not only minimum wages, tourism, where the Minister for Economic Development, Technology and Tourism will not make public declaration, "ah, because young people who are not accepted to other schools go to tourist schools" which is unacceptable, the gentleman should resign that moment, or the Government should resign it. As I've already said in my position, what's it like with the Austrian neighbors. We suggest the same, a hundred-meter belt. The French are the first tourist destination of continental Europe, one of the world's first destinations, and they are even more radical here. And basically, it's not just about tourism. Now that I'm saying this, I remember a friend of mine taking a bike to Maribor by the UKC, let a lady come out after 14 days of surgery and jumps on his bike path, because the commercial covered up the view of her. And the woman ended up in the E.R., and she had to be in the UKC for three weeks. I will read how in France, through external advertising under the law on the environment, I quote: "Only allowed in settlements and only outside settlements at railway stations and airports, at sports facilities with at least 15,000 seats and in the immediate vicinity of shopping centres, if this is permitted by local advertising regulations." There you have the opportunity, according to the local authorities, that these conditions will be further exacerbated. For cities and places with less than 10,000 inhabitants, it is a ban on so-called lighting or digital advertising. Like the French city of Grenoble, which once had the Olympic Games, if I recall correctly, one of the leading French tourist centers, issued a ban on outdoor advertising in cities. What's left is some smaller ads that are attached to a local offer. The federal state of Vermont in the U.S. began one year before I was born. Hawaii has been doing this for 20 years, and so has Alaska, Maine, since 2013. In short, it's basically a very thoughtful article and an amendment. At the board meeting, for example, they also advertised from SDS, a type of “her, because I will not be able to go home to Bovec because there will be no traffic signs”. It's a joke basically, a misunderstanding of it. Even if you drive through Austria, you have an additional set of traffic signs along the highway, if I may put it that way, because you have very clearly marked some tourist destinations. It's simply a ban on these kinds of carnages, which, although I come from the Left, have started cities that go a lot more hardcore capitalism than we go here. There are a lot of these ads that are also crazy sexist, let's be honest, but you don't need to be a feminist, let alone a feminist, to be noticed. From this point of view, New Slovenia should also support this. However, if I touch on this municipality's story, the new burden, I am already on this entire mandate on behalf of the Left, I say that after 25 years we urgently need a reform of local self-government, that it is necessary to open the mandatory tasks of the municipalities, that until we have regions, such tasks should be centralised. If you go to the municipal budgets, one of the main items is kindergartens, schools, and so on, so that you have to stop with a flatter, divide the congregations into three, four classes of congregations, according to the amount of mandatory tasks. In some serious societies and countries, this is done in two, three mandates. But we do have a minister who, unfortunately, I have to say, prefers a binge from a helicopter, goes to Dubai, up and down, is the chief government negotiator, dealing with the ICT he has acquired for his ministry, because there are pennies, even though the Ministry of Public Administration is covering this, some ministry that has most of the various substantive tasks that this team should perform. Although we had an ideal opportunity in this meeting of the National Assembly, I hope to say, with the least impact, I will say what the mayor's lobby to the National Assembly, which we will probably not have in the next two references. And not that Mr. Koprivnikar deserved a flower here, here this coalition, this government and Mr. Koprivnikar earned by KZ – what? Dr. Gorenak is probably going to be more explicit about this. Yeah, yeah, not that basketball semi-resistible department. Because in this national assembly, many with a much longer kilometre than I or Levica, so-called tabulated politicians forget that almost everything we accept here is essentially a good two-thirds turn to the municipal level. Then we don't have proper funding. And, as I often say, the most difficult position in this country is the mayor who wants to act responsibly. If I come back. As I said, if it is taken seriously by the strategy for the sustainable development of Slovenian tourism, then it is somehow self-evident as we suggest. If this coalition is serious, regardless of the currently aggregate pre-election state of the coalition, it would have to support this on its own. But if it does not support, then it is the continuation of some typical Slovenian political duality, which we have been looking at for a quarter of a century. That's it for a while. If there are any other responses, I'll respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u31	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes the 11th item of the agenda. We're moving to 14. On the day-to-day basis, this is another defence proposal for a law on the real property of the State and the self-government of local communities following a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Baby Verbich. [[advertising in the hall]] [[He's not here.]] The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Left for her [[…]] [[no representative of the delegation]] . The text is addressed to the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party [[…]] [[no representative of the delegation]] . I'm adjourning the session for five minutes. We'll continue at 10:15.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u32	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we continue our adjourned meeting of the assembly. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u33	Hello, fellow Members and others! Before us is the amendment of the Real Property Act of the State and the local communities, to which, for at least the last three years, we have both been alerted by opposition and coalition Members to the need for change. We have warned the government that the existing system of planning and real estate management is not effective. As a result, the current regime has a relatively low implementation of the country's annual real estate management plan, as reflected in the report on the real estate management plans for 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016. We were able to understand from the report that in a wide range of areas the realization was also below 5%. Of course, we have always wondered what caused such a low realization and to what extent such low realization might have been affected by subjective circumstances or whether we have been making decisions here in the National Assembly on a plan to deal with the real property of the country as an urgent evil or as some pious desire of the owners of state property. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we believe that changes to the law are going in the right direction, since the management of property from individual bodies is regulated in a centralised way or transferred to the Ministry of Public Administration. The proposal also sets out more precisely the procedures for dealing with State property. Well, I'd say everything's fine and fine. However, we cannot go beyond the fact that the proposal for this law, which we are considering today, has failed to deal with the assets of the Bank of Slovenia. In 2015 we amended this law on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, which was in line with the Bank of Slovenia. Following this amendment, the Real Estate Act also applied to the Bank of Slovenia, in that part relating to the provision on the principles and procedures of conduct, which did not affect the independence of the Bank of Slovenia's own assets. In the bill that we are considering today, however, there are no more provisions on how to deal with the bank's real assets than I have already said. We are therefore asked about the procedures for dealing with real assets owned by the bank. The Bank Act does not contain provisions on the handling of real property, and we are reluctant to ask who will then supervise the Bank of Slovenia and on the basis of which the legal provisions are laid down. The Court of Auditors will not be competent, it has no legal basis. So who? We are also asked why the Ministry of Finance and Bank of Slovenia participated in the drafting of the existing law in 2015 and why only the Ministry of Public Administration was involved in the drafting of the amendments to the law that we are considering today. Did the Ministry of Public Administration simply forget the bank's assets when preparing this bill, or was it perhaps another, different reason? I would say that the answer we received on the home work body that the treatment of Banka Slovenije’s assets fell out of the final text, I quote, “for the sake of ensuring its independent position, since the European Central Bank could oppose this,” which does not drink water. “The European Central Bank may have objected” – I think that this assumption, which was presented to the Committee on Home Affairs two years ago, was considered by both the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Slovenia when they proposed the amendment. We will not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, but we will not oppose it either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u34	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u35	Dear President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Today, we have a proposal for a law based on many coordinations with the municipalities and their associations, which, of course, we welcome in the Desus Group, as much of the proposed provisions relate to the functioning of local self-government communities and their handling of real property, so the consensus is all the more important. It must be said that many matters in the law – namely, a completely new proposal for a law – are not entirely new to the content, as they have been regulated in the law, but we are convinced that a new way will provide a clearer definition. The main objective of the bill proposal is to adapt the institutions of handling the state's real estate to a new regime. Here we are talking about the country's annual real estate plans and the creation of a central real estate record and a single online portal. There are many reasons for the adoption of the bill, including certain amendments, which follow the commitments of the European Commission, compliance with certain directives, as well as the substantive revisions of the law. The proposers have already clarified the objectives and solutions of the bill, but let me repeat it briefly. More specifically, a centralised way of dealing with the real property of a country where the procedures are already under way in accordance with the amendment of the Law on State Administration, which has provided that it is to be completed in the period up to 1. 1. 2017 implements the transition to centralised state property management and becomes the manager of this property, and becomes the Ministry of Public Administration. It provides for centralised supervision of the conclusion of legal transactions relating to property owned by the State and the management of public law persons, such as public institutions, public economic institutions, agencies and funds, which are the operators of the immovable property of the State. Prior to the conclusion of a legal deal worth more than EUR 10 000, they will have to obtain prior written consent from the authority responsible for the area in which those operators operate. Next. More comprehensively, the real estate management procedure is defined. In one place, the issue of State aid is addressed, the removal of immovable property is free of charge, the rental of immovable property for the country and for the municipalities is separately regulated and could be listed. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that the solutions proposed bring about a simplification of real property management procedures while maintaining adequate control and simplifying the procedures for adopting state-owned annual real estate plans. That substantive reform of the law is necessary, experience from practice also shows. Thus, the proposal gives us a more flexible system of real estate planning and self-governance of local communities. Recent experience has shown that, in some areas of real estate management, there is a need to regulate differently the conduct of the State and the self-governance local communities and that the law submitted takes these differences into account. In the Desus Group we will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u36	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u37	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and respected colleagues! In Novi Slovenija, we have observed for years that actual property management plans are in fact only about collecting proposals or the wishes of individual applicants. Even when adopting this year's decision on the real estate management plan, for state administration authorities, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies, public funds, we have pointed out that the plan to dispose of movable and immovable property or leases is too modest, even taking into account the fact that they are excessive assets. We have repeatedly called on the Government to reform the real estate management strategy by making it more economical or economical and, above all, more transparent. In any case, the State should be an example of good property management. Responsible owners plan to dispose of their assets in such a way that the assets are also actually sold. The realisation of both the availability and the acquisition of property is still very small. Let's just mention the comparison. Even in 2014, the realisation of the real estate of the country was successful in only 5,24 % of the targets outlined. However, only 3% were available in the asset management plan, while the unpaid real estate was up to 30%. A little better was the realization in 2015, 2016 and 2017, but still insufficient. In Novi Slovenije we advocate that each individual asset manager assumes responsibility both for the listing of individual assets on the list of planned assets and for the determination of the way in which they are made available. In particular in the case of sales, as well as for the determination of the real orientation value of individual real estate or movable property. The proposal for a new law on the real property of the state and the self-governance of local communities may represent a small step towards a more efficient management of state property, but at the same time it leaves a number of traps. In practice, we are talking about almost 400 operators, which raises questions about transparency in the handling of this property. And there's something else to worry about. The law provides for the centralisation of the treatment of immovable property of the State by establishing the Ministry of Public Administration as the manager of real estate of the State authorities. The Bank of Slovenia is also a person of public law, but it is not subject to this law. The Government’s argument that it is a person of public law, sui generis, which must be independent, is not preventable. All is well and well, since its independence and independence are also governed by the Bank of Slovenia Act and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Let us point out that the amendment of this law in 2015 eliminated the legal void and regulated the principles and procedures of the management of the real assets of the Bank of Slovenia without prejudice to the independence and independence of the decision-making of the Bank of Slovenia. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the independence and independence of the central bank at the same time also bears its great responsibility for the legal and economic management and management of its assets. Unfortunately, the supervision of Banka Slovenije's operations in the system law on Banka Slovenije is still not regulated. In New Slovenia, we will support the bill despite some concerns.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u38	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u39	Thank you very much, President for your word. The idea of uniform or centralised regulation of immovable property took place in 2010 at the time of the adoption of the Public Property Fund Act. Unfortunately, this law never came to life in practice, since in 2012 the Law on Real Property of the State and Local Communities expired. Thus, the decentralisation of state-owned property management has further deepened. The implementation of the law in practice has shown shortcomings and therefore it is crucial that it strives to make the necessary changes in the way that the real property of the State and the local communities is treated with care and, above all, economically. The protection of fundamental principles of real property management follows current developments and the market situation and needs of both the state and local communities and asset managers. The current uneven and opaque real estate management system lasts too long, making it impossible for harmonised economic real estate policy, especially in the workplace, when it allows both direct and indirect supervisors to conclude virtually all real estate transactions on their own – without the consent of the government or the department. Such behaviour has caused problems mainly in controlling the conclusion of legal transactions, handling the real property of the country in the management of institutions in their field of work. In recent years, the issue of an adequate existing system of real estate planning has been highlighted particularly poorly. This has also been pointed out by Members in the annual adoption of decisions, plans to deal with the real property of individual users and in particular the annual report on its implementation. It is undeniable that the implementation of these plans is low. There are certainly more causes, from low economic growth, lack of credit potential, low real estate prices, which have prevented both the State and the local community from selling, as well as unrealistic real estate plans. As set out in the proposal for a law, a long list of surplus assets has been drawn up, in which real estate managers have placed their assets in stock. The law, as it follows from the material submitted, has been preparing everything since 2015, but the principles remain the same as the current ones: the cost-effectiveness of real property management, the principle of equal treatment, the principle of transparency, the principle of the public. We think that the proposed solutions to this law are going in the right direction: a centralised way of dealing with real property, a centralised way of concluding legal transactions related to property owned by the State and the management of public law, obtaining the consent of the body before concluding a legal business that exceeds EUR 10,000. A new centralised control mechanism is being introduced at local community level. The mayor must also obtain prior agreement from the municipal council or city council on the draft text of the legal act before publication for legal entities worth more than EUR 500 000. A special feature for municipalities is that they can rent or use permanently unnecessary assets for free of charge in order to ensure an economical treatment of immovable property. And watch out! The state doesn't have that option. A more flexible system of country property planning is also in place. However, the aim is to eliminate the low real-estate real-estate real-estate real-estate real-estate real-estate real-estate real-estate real-estate real-estate real-estate real-estate, as demonstrated by the annual report on real-estate management plans. This bad practice needs to be changed and corrected accordingly, and the Social Democrats support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u40	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 29 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? The State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, Dr. Nitz Brezovar, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u41	Thank you for your word, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Just a brief explanation, which has already been given to the Committee on the proposal of the United Left Amendment to Article 29. The number currently provided for in the law, we are talking about the amount of property that exceeds half a million euros, is a compromise, frankly. The municipalities wanted no restrictions, while the United Left proposal amounted to EUR 250 000. In our view, such a low amount would unduly burden the municipal councils with prior confirmations, and in this way it would totally unnecessary to interfere with the work of the municipalities, so we are opposed to the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u42	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 65 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Once again, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Public Administration, Dr. Nitz Brezovar, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u43	Thank you, President. There is also a brief explanation why we have focused on giving free use of the immovable property of municipalities and states only to NGOs with public interest status. That doesn't mean any marriage. The current period of validity has been loosened. In fact, the condition was public interest. Therefore, the municipalities have already addressed the Ministry of Public Administration, which is, among other things, responsible for the field of non-governmental organisations, and we have already explained that the condition of public interest means that it is a non-governmental organisation which has a status in the public interest. In practice, this new provision will not make anything worse, but only what has already been established in practice is passed on to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u44	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. I'm putting an end to the 14th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 16. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on enforcement and protection within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u45	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members! The Law on Enforcement and Insurance, which is before you, is one of the major novelties of this law in recent years. We continue with this trend, which we have started with the previous amendment in this mandate, which we have named at the Ministry, and has already been adopted, and we have named the social novels, which have improved the situation of socially disadvantaged debtors in certain parts. The proposed solutions to the amendment before you address certain shortcomings in the current regulation related to the acquis of the European Union and also amend those provisions which in practice have been a deadlock in the enforcement procedure or have overburdened the courts. But it goes here, we'll say, more about technical changes. However, I would like to point out in this recital that two amendments are of great importance in our view. First, the law provides the legal basis for the introduction of online auctions of movable property and property. This will undoubtedly contribute to a better realisation of the sale of movable and immovable property, which is in the interest of both creditors and debtors, and in particular will allow for a more effective and effective prevention of abuses that arise from time to time in enforcement procedures to negotiate between different potential buyers of movable property and property in court and cannot otherwise be adequately and effectively prevented. Another important component is the regulation of so-called social execution on real estate. The law in a different and more friendly way regulates cases where the debt is extremely disproportionate to the proposal that this debt be repaid from the sale of the property, which also represents the debtors' home. In this case, the law imposes an active role of the court after the official duty in such cases, establishes a link with the Centre for Social Work, enables certain suspensions of enforcement and protects particularly vulnerable groups. It should be borne in mind that the enforcement procedure is always a conflict of two different interests, both legitimate, on the one hand of the debtor, on the other hand of the creditor, and that also creditors are not always those who are extremely strong. We always think of it as bank creditors, like big corporations. Trustees may also be persons who do not receive maintenance payments, smaller entrepreneurs and so on. It is therefore necessary to be extremely careful in the case of infringements of this law. I think that we have also found this environment, which I believe has also shown a rather extensive discussion on the working body. If the conditions of the President-in-Office of the National Assembly are met, I also propose that a third consideration of the bill be held at the same meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u46	The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Jan Škobernet, for the representatives of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! At its 46th regular meeting on 2 February, the Committee of Justice considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, where we initially found that the Legislative and Legal Service had no further concerns, since all their concerns within the proposed amendments were duly taken into account by the coalition groups. Following a brief presentation of the content of the debates presented by the President of the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and the equal opportunities of Eva Irgle, the Commission considered the law before you as an interested working body. The law was also further supported by the State Council. The Council of Justice has indicated that it has no comment on the law. Members and Members of Parliament, however, felt in the debate that we must establish a social environment in the country that would ensure people's personal dignity and security. In doing so, it is necessary to ensure the respect and protection of the individual's home in particular, and in this context enforcement must be only an extreme option at home. The representatives of the proposer further explained that the proposed law in this respect brings more protectors to keep the debtor's home and warned that the outstanding debt could also – and that is not irrelevant – endanger the survival of the creditor. The Committee then voted on the amendments and all the articles of the law together. And the updated law is in front of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u48	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Dr. Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u49	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have yet another amendment to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, one of the many amendments that, as the Minister has said, brings some technical changes to the enforcement procedure itself, which will in particular help the courts to do what the law on enforcement essentially requires of them. This is an effective execution. However, as has already been said, the law on enforcement and insurance for the payment of the creditor’s claims must also address the debtor’s rights under this law. To a certain extent, the law on enforcement and insurance has taken care of this, but we have seen that, in the case of Vaskrsić, the European Court of Human Rights has found that there are some shortcomings. In spite of the fact that the law allows for certain restrictions on enforcement, it is necessary to ensure that, in the event of the social hardship of the debtor and the disproportionately low claim, and in the case of enforcement of the property, i.e. the property representing the debtor's home, it is nevertheless necessary to allow the court to postpone enforcement in a certain way to assist the debtor who needs such assistance to come out of this vicious circle and yet manages to pay the claim in another way. This shall also allow for the proper protection of his right to property. It is important that the proposal for the amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance allows the court to postpone enforcement for a certain period. This option is not currently in force. We have introduced this amendment to the Committee on Justice and also to postpone enforcement for a reasonable period of time in certain cases, where appropriate. So let us allow those debtors who are in social distress, and when it comes to disproportionately high claims, to postpone enforcement that is not tied to one hand. This will be decided by the court on a case-by-case basis. The changes in KICs also refer to the acceleration and faster completion of enforcement procedures. One of these is the introduction of the possibility that the Court of First Instance, after a complaint has been lodged, will only correct its own decision if, after a complaint has been lodged, it finds that the decision is wrong. Such an option will relieve the appeal, i.e. the Supreme Court, and allow for a faster resolution of cases in the first instance. One welcome solution is that it will now be possible for the court, on a proposal from the party, to determine the market value of the property, on the basis of a valuation already in the file. There are many such matters where we already have our valuations in the file, and if this valuation is not older than two years, then it can be applied once again on the proposal of this novel, so that the costs of execution are reduced, as the costs of enforcement are being paid primarily from the assets sold. Because of all these solutions proposed in the law, and in particular because of this social note proposed, we will support the proposed amendment from the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u50	The SDS Group, Mrs Eva Irgle, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u51	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Mr. Minister of Justice! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we welcome some of the solutions brought by the Amendments to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance. In the SDS, we have for a very long time warned that it is imperative to amend the legislation in the field of work, if I say so. This is an extremely important topic, and as a result, at the Commission's meeting on petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities, as the President of the Committee on Justice has said earlier, we have spoken as an interested working body about this, with a focus on jobs. The fact is that people from their homes or houses are also being held for very low debts and the measures are not proportionate to the amount they owe. Over ten years, over 7,000 200 real estate executions were due to debt recovery, which was lower than EUR 100. It is certainly a disproportionate measure and, in some cases, also for severe social hardships, and these people must be helped to live a dignified and dignified life first so that they can maintain their dignity, which belongs to the Constitution. When we talk about assignments, we need to look at each case on a case-by-case basis. Every story is a story to itself. Amendments to the amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance were also made due to the case which was strongly reflected in Slovenia. I'm talking about the Vaskrsic case. As you know, Slovenia now has to pay compensation and reimburse costs totalling EUR 85,000 for the rubble and sale of the house in the enforcement process resulting from a basic debt of EUR 124. On 25 April 2017, the European Court of Human Rights published a judgment on the Vaskrsić case against Slovenia, in which it found a violation of Article 1 of the Protocol, No. 1 which speaks of the right to own property. In this case, we have been alerting the Slovenian Democratic Party all the time since it happened, namely that it was a disproportionate intervention in the enforcement of the euro 124 real estate. In this case, the European Court of Justice has pointed out that Slovenian legislation does not oblige the executing court to use a less favourable enforcement measure or to reject a proposal for enforcement in the event of disproportionateity between the claim and the value of the property. And now we are moving on to that crucial, important change in the novelty of the law. The new proposal of the law provides that, where a court authorises the enforcement of a home or a home in which it is a household in debt, it may, on the basis of the recovery of a financial claim disproportionate to the value of the property determined, determine, on an official basis, another, more proportionate asset or subject matter of enforcement. At the same time, it provides that, in the event of enforcement of the debtors, the debtor may propose a second enforcement measure to pay the disproportionate claim, even after the expiry of the eight-day period following the notification of the enforcement decision. Let me briefly state once again, the new proposal of the law provides that, if the court finds that, in the case of enforcement of a property, a disproportionate action, it may then, under an official duty, determine another, more proportionate means or subject to enforcement. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, as has already been said, I have already said this on the Commission on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, and then on the Committee on Justice, we will support this law. We believe that in some parts it is going in the right direction, but of course we will closely monitor the implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u52	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, on her behalf Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u53	Respected and respected! Today we are discussing important changes and additions to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance. In the Desus Group, we believe that a solution in this area, in this law, is essential. Unfortunately, deployments are a daily problem for individuals who find themselves in severe social distress. However, it must be said that the law on enforcement and insurance already in force also gives the debtor considerable opportunity to postpone and prevent the sale of real estate. For example, a debtor who is threatened with the sale of a property may, inter alia, require that in the property that represents his home stay for three years after the sale and find a replacement residence at that time. Thus we have on the one hand a debtor who has found himself in such a situation for various reasons; on the other hand a creditor whose constitutional right is to be paid. In the Desus Group, as has already been said, we welcome the proposed solution to prevent social executions on immovable property, the fundamental feature of which is that the debt is low and thus its payment by the debtor is manageable. What exactly does change bring? The Courts are obliged to notify the debtor’s residence or the debtor’s residence during the enforcement procedure, which is clearly disproportionate to the property value determined, of the debt which, following the notification received, will have to start by carrying out the tasks entrusted to the social work centre as public powers or by carrying out social security services aimed at eliminating social distress and problems. However, enforcement over the debtor’s property or home will be preventable when it comes to relatively low claims and when the CSD gives an opinion that immediate enforcement would jeopardise the existence of the debtor and his family members. However, it has to be said that in the public eye, it is often the impression that our assignments take place in a mass and without mercy. That is not the case, the data show that between 2005 and 2015 there were approximately 7,000 300 proposals for enforcement and less than 1.5% were implemented. Of course, much more attention should be paid to this than has been the case so far. Being employed at home is a very sensitive matter for all involved, especially when it comes to evicting people who are in severe material distress, especially when they find themselves in it without their own guilt. Posting can leave lasting psychological consequences for children and adults who experience it, which can lead to health problems. It is also for this reason that efforts should be made to ensure that there are no activities. However, if they are inevitable for the protection of the interests of creditors, the State and the local community are responsible for ensuring that no person who has been employed and cannot afford to provide social security and suitable housing alone for justified reasons would be deprived of the roof over their heads and the assistance necessary for the survival of those persons. In the Desus Group we are aware of the problems and problems in this area. The execution process itself is certainly cruel and unforgivable for the affected persons. For this reason, in the Desus Group, we will support a proposal for a law that provides an additional path for the country to help with the unloving, sad work procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u54	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, on its behalf, Mr Jožef Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Probably no one wants to find himself in a lifeless situation where, due to a relatively low amount of debt, he loses his property, which is his only home or home. We do not talk about the dizzying amounts owed, which are often the result of financial fraud or even criminal acts. We are talking about people who, because of personal social distress, may not be able to pay back or pay a smaller amount because of the very complicated rules, but in the end there will be real estate enforcement, which is much more valuable than the principal debt. We all know such an example – Vaskrsić. I'm sure he's not the only one, but he was the most resilient. It reflected all the way to the European Court of Human Rights and showed a great weakness. The Slovenian legislation does not oblige the executing court to use a milder enforcement measure or to reject a proposal for enforcement where there is a large imbalance between the amount of the claim and the value of the property. Of course, it does not prohibit this either; therefore, the court in this case could, could, could, could, could not, do so. Therefore, the European Court of Human Rights of Slovenia has imposed a penalty for violating the right to peaceful enjoyment of property, and it was not a necessary measure. Vaskrsic owed 124 euros, the European Court of Human Rights awarded the Republic of Slovenia 85 000 euros or 685 times the amount of debt. In New Slovenia, we stress that whenever we talk about the enforcement procedure and the relationship between the debtor and the creditor, it must be based on the fact that it is the creditor's right to be paid, it is the right to effective judicial protection; and on the right of the debtor to respect his home. From this point of view, the proposal of today's amendment to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance for so-called social executions brings to the property the necessary security guards, the greater role of social work centres and debtors of the proposal for the authorisation of another means of execution or enforcement on another property which may be submitted until the issuance of the public auction order. Of course, the debt will have to be paid in the end, as the law does not allow debt write-offs. Speaking of debt write-offs, the government did not celebrate this project, launched in 2015, because very few businesses and municipalities signed a cooperation agreement to help the weak. The criteria to be met by the debtors were also very high and few applicants were taken into account. In New Slovenia, we hope that social work centres will be more successful in providing social security services to address social distress. Sometimes it does not take much to help the most vulnerable; however, it is necessary to react immediately and with the right measures to prevent the worst. We in Novi Slovenija will support the amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u56	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. One of the coalition's fundamental commitments at the time of this government's launch was to achieve, through the reform of the judiciary, that the latter would be more effective in all its segments, friendly to people and, above all, fairer. And the closer we get to the end, the more we can see that in the field of justice, many changes have also achieved this objective. One of these key, and for many citizens and citizens, perhaps even the most important, because in many ways, unfortunately, the most important of their daily lives can also be today's novel that is ahead of us. The key is to ensure that the debtor is protected through this, as well as an effective means of paying the creditor. Of course, it is unacceptable or sad, and a society like ours, one of the richest in the world, cannot afford to make small, small or insignificant amounts of metal from their homes. This amendment regulates the way to enable and instructs the court, together with the Centre for Social Work in cases where, for example, it is possible to solve such cases in a timely manner through the activation of the single cash assistance tool, in order to avoid execution or this request at all – that is also the solution. At the same time, key criticisms and questions must be answered, why the proposal does not go even more radically to protect the debtor. Because on the other hand, there is also the right of a creditor who can be a small craftsman, someone who has espé who lives from his work and also has to pay for material, his employees, to feed his family. And we did not want and do not want to save speculators and those who, like speaking and occurring in cases of personal bankruptcy, then benefit the richest or those who wanted to avoid paying taxes, paying contractors, paying material. And the law before you tried to balance that, and in this is its key advantage. On the one hand, it prevents people from taking their homes by nature, from carrying out assignments for amounts that are easily available, with some effort and with the cooperation of institutions that are responsible and necessary, to resolve them in due course; at the same time, it still allows debt to be paid. Because debts don't arise on their own. And for what it's worth, someone had to work and some material had to be paid not to say there was a tax. And this balance is our duty to maintain. The important thing is that we do not interfere with human dignity. The ideal extraction of this law, which we also hope for by the Social Democrats, is that executions from the home, which at the same time is also the basic and only residence and real estate, would not come at all, since there are tools to prevent it now. By this law, however, the institutions are only more committed to this and through this we meet the fundamental objective that the courts in this country will not only be effective and fair, but also to the people, to the user in this case, be kind and on his side. The Social Democrats will, of course, support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u58	The text is given by the Left Party, on her behalf by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! We have already drawn attention to the issue of operations in Levika. Locations are in some ways the cruelest representation of social image in Slovenia, and as a result, we have been working for the entire mandate to address not only the consequences of this picture, but mainly the causes that lead to such conditions. The rate of poverty is high, the social pressures are severe, the lack of non-profit housing is high. However, the number of shares is increasing. And the government isn't really dealing with this problem. She is not prepared to raise the minimum wage, she is not prepared to raise the money social assistance, she is not prepared to raise the lowest pensions, although we have many years of economic growth and enough money to give a billion to NATO and arms. The government also gives tax exemptions to the richest people to fund their dirty investments. In the meantime, 280 thousand people still live below the poverty line. Under it is the minimum wage, the lowest pensions do not even allow for a bare survival. As a result, a lot of people can't pay their bills. During the winter, many people can't even afford to smoke, and in the end, they can lose their roof over their heads. This is simply unacceptable. We are not talking about individuals who bought a car too expensive, or a weekend at sea, or who ordered services, construction, and then cannot pay it back anymore. I am talking about people who are without a roof over their heads because of the inability to pay electricity, heat and other basic costs; because of a hundred or several hundred euros of debt. The new law on enforcement and insurance is intended to address this problem, among other things. It's supposed to prevent anyone from losing their homes because of their debt. But in Levi, we are confident that this marriage, unfortunately, will not save anything. It will still be possible to execute on the only home for 50 or 100 euros in debt. Those at risk of being assigned will still not receive adequate legal assistance. A total disproportionate debt may still result in a down payment. And all that this marriage brings is that it's only gonna happen a few months later. For us, that's absolutely too little. As a result, we have prepared a whole bunch of supplements on the parental committee in Levica, which would prevent work from the only home due to the inability to pay basic costs. We didn't just hang up, we stopped. We didn't suggest anything drastic. None of the proposals would result in massive non-payment of the bills, as stated by the Ministry and also by the coalition. It would only achieve that enforcement is limited to a single home or to a suitable dwelling to ensure that enforcement to the only home is the last possible means, that all those at risk of employment are provided with adequate legal assistance to ensure the active role of the court in finding the best solution to the situation and that only as a last resort, if there is no other solution, enforcement is postponed. For such solutions to be necessary, statistics also confirm. Over the past ten years, 7 000 246 real estate executions have been made due to a debt of less than EUR 100. Nearly 50,000 executions were made due to the debt between EUR 100 and 1000. An additional 42 000 due to debts of between 1,000 and 5,000 euros. And it was precisely these almost 100,000 cases that we wanted to address appropriately with the amendments that we proposed in Levica. As usual, they have lost their support, and we hope that you have thought carefully about whether the appointment is really better in a few months than tomorrow's appointment. In Levi, we are convinced that this is not enough; we propose that all those who are threatened with the assignment be provided with at least something, some minimum, that is appropriate free legal aid. If we don't do this at least, we can't support this marriage in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u60	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 20 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Since I see there is an interest, I invite you to apply to the debate. The application shall be made. First to get Dr. Vinko Gorenak's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I will not only talk about Article 20 and the amendment, but in general about the law a few words. We are usually used to the fact that laws are coming from the judiciary in this mandate, which we, as I recall, are largely non-supported. Of course, there is a reason in the content of the law, not in some kind of tailor or something like that. Since we always act in this way to look at the content and try to support things that are good, in this case this procedure has also been legalized in us. I must say, as my colleague Irgle has predicted, that we will support the marriage. It is true, however, that the matter under consideration is difficult because these rights collide with at least two constitutional principles and it is very difficult to balance in some wise way so that the law cannot be even counter-constitutional because of any stricter regulation. This is why the law goes in some direction that is acceptable to us, which is much more protective or at least trying to protect people who are supposed to be assigned, and is trying to work things out in a better way than has been done so far. Of course, the law will not be able to solve all problems, in particular it will not be able to solve problems where a judge besides law, as Boštjan M. Zupančič would say, does not have a healthy farmer's mind. I didn't say you didn't have it, not to worry. I'm talking about the judges, because you're an MP now, and you're just gonna be a judge back. Why is he going? It is simple, as Boštjan M. Zupančič said in the case of Vaskrsić, that a judge must, in addition to being able to read the law and know what it says, have a healthy farmer's mind and must use a healthy farmer's mind in addition to the law. I don't think that a healthy farmer with a law can prescribe it, too, and we can't prescribe it, so don't hold, as some of you said before me, that now there will be no such cases as Vaskrsic. It's very difficult to say that there will be no more. They will not be if judges besides the law use a healthy farmer’s mind; otherwise, this can continue to happen to us, for as early as December of last year, there was a very similar case in the New Town Court of Justice. A very similar case when they threw on the street, and then they changed their minds at the last minute because things came out. In short, the law is going in the right direction, which is why we support the law as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u62	Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u63	Thank you. I have already said the point in the position of the Group of Members, but I would just like to emphasise what the law will not achieve. It will not ensure that the operations will not occur due to low debts, which is one of the main problems, i.e. in the proportionality of the assets when enforcement is even applied to real estate. It does not guarantee that execution at home would indeed be the last opportunity of the creditor, so when there is no other option anymore, and it does not guarantee that we would secure the only home that man has. Thirdly, it does not provide adequate legal aid. We know that in some cases, people who are in financial or other difficulties find legal aid very difficult to find in this tribulation to figure out what resources are available. The Government's argument was that we already have a free legal aid institution in the second law and that we could also use this. However, I think it is appropriate that this possibility should also be explicitly stated in this law, so we have also proposed this amendment to Article 20; and that people – who for such or other reasons find themselves in such situations – at least the part that is due to minor debts before enforcement, which is probably a completely inhumane means to pay these debts – at least in such a way as to protect them from legal aid in order to provide them with some kind of advice. This is precisely why the law goes in the wrong direction in this area, because what this law brings is that the social work centre will be informed about the implementation, in the meantime this execution will be postponed, not soon, but in a few days, but in a month or a year; but that does not change the fact – enforcement remains. In the meantime, this case will be referred to humanitarian and non-governmental organisations, which will in some way be outsourcing the basic activity of the State. That's why I wonder where the country is in this case.Oh, my God! Is it not the basic function of the State to protect citizens and citizens and to perform at least this basic social and legal function? This law places some of the responsibility that the State has towards its citizens and citizens; and this responsibility must probably be assumed by the State in most cases because it allows people in this country to live in totally unworthy conditions because they have too low conditions because they do not have adequate social protection. This is not a solution for us, this is a simple exercise of responsibility. Responsibilities to social work centres, humanitarian organisations, NGOs, which have been in the last few years or since the crisis, those that alleviate the consequences of the crisis for the people who have drawn the shortest in this country. With the amendment we are really proposing a minimum, I stress this once again. It is a matter of writing down the possibility of getting people who are in such executions legal aid to give them appropriate advice, what resources they have, to somehow dig up from the situation they are in, and to keep the roof above their heads by means of such a mechanism. That is true, I will say, some charity, if we can talk about these cases, as I have already said, and once again stress, as long as we have a minimum wage that does not cover the minimum cost of living, as long as we have a high unemployment rate, that we will have this situation increasingly, including those who are newly employed, in the form of holiday work. In a few years, when we examine the effect of this law, we will probably only find that there was no effect. Perhaps the only thing that actually took place with a few months or an annual delay in this execution or assignment. There is probably no question that another case will fall in the European Court of Human Rights and the state will have to pay some more compensation. This is really pointless and even incomprehensible from a purely human point of view. I think that this amendment, given that it is a minimum, is worthy of support; I would point out that this law could achieve significantly more.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u64	Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We can always take a step further, the question is how we approach one step closer to the rights and dignity of another or the third. In this case, the question may be whether by preventing, for example, money from being executed in one person in difficulty, we cause a problem with another person who has the same family, who also pays electricity and who has a home that he wants to protect. If we look at this in a plastic case, someone in good faith arranges a bathroom, one, two, three, four; pays their employees, pays their suppliers, settles the tax on the state, and then does not receive money from the creditor, because it is in severe distress because he does not want to take advantage of the possibility of avoiding it in any way. There have been many cases of personal bankruptcy. By means of mechanisms designed to save people, we really put someone into poverty and hardship. And we must avoid this as a legislator, so this law before us tries to maintain this fragile balance. And it is not entirely true that the law simply postpones enforcement, which remains an indispensable fact. No, the law makes it possible, even under the official obligation, that two institutions, the court and the centre of social work, in cooperation bring the procedure in a way to pay, for example, this 50-euro debt to someone who has done his job honestly, taxed him and lived on it; at the same time, that the debtor who is in a serious situation is also saved. As has already been said, when it comes to the question of €50 debt, this can be resolved through a single-money assistance mechanism. And this is meant to prevent this execution and to ensure that the institutions we already have in the country do their job because they have to do it. The question of free legal aid is, of course, in place. However, even the aviation law does not specifically state that when an aircraft is on the ground, road traffic rules apply to vehicles operating in an airport area. Why? Because the road traffic law says how to do it, where there's 30, 50 and so on. And we don't need to specifically write this down, that it also applies in construction sites, that it also applies at the airport and that it also applies in Luka Koper if you want. Because if each of these things were simply to be introduced into all the laws that fit it, we would create an exclusive and mere confusion; we do not want that. The Law on free legal aid is in force, but of course it is again in all institutions to benefit from it, to offer it to people and to give the State instruments that are also promoting it. You have municipalities in the country, and I come from such, the Municipality of Velenje, which also has free legal assistance for its citizens and citizens; and it advertises and promotes it. Why? Because he wants the instruments available to people to offer them the benefit of preventing and preventing their hardships by means of the tools provided and made available by the State. And this marriage is one of those. And let me draw your attention to another part of the law that we haven't talked about very much. These are online auctions. You know, in many of the auctions that have taken place, there have been concerted auctions, and there have been extortions that have been very difficult to prove. Anyone who tried to participate in the auction knows that there are people at the door of the courts who say that you are cooperating or not participating in this and this and under these and these conditions. An online auction also allows non-physical presence at the auction and thus equal access for all. Above all, the so-called auctioning mafia is prevented from exploiting, blackmailing and so on. This is a very important segment of this law, which is why this law must be supported and worthy of support. If not from another element, even from the fact that once again in auctions that are on the run, we give people the opportunity, not only to those with a large amount of accumulated money, to come up with the opportunity to participate; and thus also to save creditors. In the case of this law, we must guarantee the right on both sides – to pay the creditor and to ensure that the debtor is insured, that he is not in danger of social harm and that his dignity is maintained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u66	The word is mag's Minister of Justice. Goran Klemenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Very short. The Government of the Left Amendments does not support for the following reasons. For the first time, as the representative of the Left presented the position of the Group and later said that the amendments should lead to actual real estate enforcement becoming the last and ultimate asset. That's exactly what we're doing with this law. Implementation of real estate, especially in the case of small, disproportionate debt and social distress, will be extremely, last resort will not be possible to implement for 50 euros, as you said. In theory, it could come, but if this were to survive all the court cases in this new law, then the court, which would confirm it, deserves another slap in Strasbourg; but this cannot happen, as the law is today. He can't, not for 50, not 100 euros. That's the first thing. Second thing. The law expressly specifies that, under an official duty, the court must seek other possibilities for movable or other executions before reaching for real estate. It wasn't there now. And this is also a partial answer to your question about free legal aid. In one part, the protection of the debtor under this proposal shall also be taken over by a court which shall only act actively in favour and protection of the socially disadvantaged individual, in this case the debtor. You were also talking about big numbers, thousands, 10,000. This, of course, is true. There have been so many proposals for enforcement. Any creditor may submit an enforcement proposal for anything. They usually make a proposal for real estate execution because it is in some ways the easiest and because you cannot normally hide real estate; however, it is necessary to know that the realisation of these is extremely small at the time of the current arrangement. In the last ten years, according to data obtained by you, realisation, real estate sales were less than 2%; in particular, 1.64% of all proposals. In 2016, almost 3 000 500 cases have been submitted, only nine times have there been surrenders, even in a situation which, in our opinion, was disproportionate and could no longer happen under the new law. And I'm going back to free legal aid. Free legal aid is regulated in the law. Any debtor who does not have a satisfactory asset situation is already entitled to free legal aid today and, in assessing his property situation, the housing unit in which he resides and to which he is proposed to be executed cannot be counted as a property price. For other forms of enforcement, the possibility of proposing other means of enforcement must already be notified to the court by virtue of an official duty, in accordance with Article 169 of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance. And it is to be believed that if necessary, the Centre for Social Work will also propose to such a debtor to provide free legal aid. What does your proposal bring, and why do we oppose it? In any event, free legal aid shall be granted to the person, irrespective of the size of the debt and regardless of the social hardship. That's, excuse the expression, throwing money out the window. It's not protecting the most vulnerable, it's protecting everyone; it's protecting everyone. And I don't understand this, especially because it comes from the Left that, according to your proposal, some owner of a villa, real estate, yachts, if you want, will receive free legal aid on an official basis, because he is owed in some procedure. In the meantime, the current law provides that free legal aid can be given to those in social distress; and even more so, it is assisted by the court and the social work centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u68	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Then you will be given the opportunity to apply again. Mr. Weber, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u69	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. In the opening part, I would like to say that I agree with what Mr Minister has said, that this law solves the problem of a small debt and that the possibility of repayment of debt with other properties is also growing, not only with the home, but it is only a partial solution. This law still allows for work if you own the home; and that is what the disadvantage of this law is. And there is also this discrepancy, if I may say so, with the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, because enforcement of the home is still possible. At this point, I would like to point out that I am also facing solutions that point to the legalisation of systemic corruption, and this is a matter that I would like to draw particular attention to. The law requires banks to fund buyers for the purchase of real estate. So he's ordering banks to buy real estate. The law speaks of this property being sold at half the value, and here is the place for corruption — half the value. Of course, it blurs out the situation in a way that informs the Centre for Social Work, and then gives the Court the opportunity to choose the appropriate time when it will carry out its assignment. Excuse me, this is the principle of systemic corruption – you include a bank that finances a buyer to buy at half the value and the court waits for the right time. Can you imagine the situation in which someone living in such an apartment is under pressure?Oh, my God! In fact, this law prolongs the agony of the one who is at home and is threatened with execution in his home, as well as the agony of the creditor, for this creditor too will not come to a payment because he will depend on the court to assess when the time will be right. This only points to the fact that the law is written in the interest of real estate speculators, and this is the circle of systemic corruption that is also governed by this law. This is the point where we cannot support this law. It needs to be cleaned up. Regrettably, the Committee introduced this provision for the Court to assess the appropriate time for the operation. Excuse me. When is the time?Oh, my God! Or is it when someone's on the deathbed? When? When will this be a good time? The solutions are really very questionable, especially in relation to the possibility of housekeeping and the introduction of this systemic corruption process that I have described. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, please report to the debate. The application shall be made. First of all, Dr. Jasna Murgel gets the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u71	Thank you very much. In the context of this application, I will say something in general and then our amendment, which is not on the table right now, but I will not then explain. If I stop now only on these claims about the right time. The provision of the recast Article 71 of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance is the one which will allow the court to postpone enforcement beyond the time limit set in the preceding paragraphs. And in this case, it will be resolved that the court should continue to execute after the time for which it was postponed. This is only one tool for the court, which is not now in place to postpone enforcement if it is a specific case, which the court will find on the basis of this new provision, and is not limited and replaced by that period for which it is required to postpone enforcement under the preceding paragraph. This is the whole purpose of this provision. But if it was some systemic corruption and I don't know what it is, it's a fantasy contribution to my ideas, because I don't know why it would be a possibility of corruption if the court were to help the debtor. Therefore, I also supported this amendment in order to allow for a postponement of enforcement for a reasonable period of time in cases where there is a disproportionately low claim compared to the value of the debtor's assets. As far as real estate enforcement is concerned, this, I must tell you, also existed in the law on the enforcement procedure that existed and was federal. And even at the time of socialism, there was no real estate sale, because these provisions were very rarely implemented, but they existed. We can't stop it now and say we won't have any real estate execution. We also generally agreed on this in the Committee on Justice when we discussed this law; and the question is how do we balance these mechanisms, elements, remedies for the creditor and the debtor. The Minister has already said so himself about these data that Levi says, 100,000, thousands of executions Really please Levico, it is your tool to quote bombastic numbers, it now looks like we are all Please, President, to remind my colleague Duck that now I am saying that he can apply to the debate and speak his opinion. [[…]] [[…]] In short, these are the numbers that make us feel like we're all in execution now, all of us. The Minister said that an enforcement proposal can be submitted by anyone, you can also file an unreasonable proposal for enforcement, okay, you will pay enforcement costs; but the question is how many of these real estate executions are actually realised. Yeah, every assignment, every real estate sale, real estate execution is a big deal. No one claims that it is now, but the court is pleased to do so, in the end the executor does the assignment, but still these are serious things. However, there are certainly not as many of them as you tell your colleagues from the Left that they are now hundreds of thousands. The Minister also said that, with free legal aid, it can be obtained under the Judicial Procedure Act; however, it is by the application of the rules of fair procedure. The debtor is also a party to the proceedings and some funds are available, but he uses them if he so wishes, he cannot be forced by the court to do so on an official basis. However, it is possible in this procedure for this social postponement of execution that the court, together with the Centre for Social Work, in particular the Centre for Social Work in this procedure, also advises the debtor. Somehow the whole matter in these cases gets a more human face when the social work centre is involved, so that everything is more appropriate to the situation in which such a debtor is found. I cannot, without commenting on the common sense of the country and how the judge can refuse an enforcement proposal for, say, €50. He can't, he can't, he can't, and I may not know what kind of legal expert is saying that. Let me see the one who stops the execution or rejects the enforcement proposal if it is a certain amount; and he will say - I will stop the execution, I will not execute the claim. On the basis of the law on enforcement, each higher court will annul such a decision. And that's why this mechanism that we are now introducing is the one that gives the judge the opportunity to postpone enforcement. In the case of such a low amount, it will also be possible to recover it from monetary social assistance, and in the context of the procedure that the Centre for Social Work will also introduce, a mechanism will be found to pay such a low amount. And that's what this is about. Some suspension of enforcement or rejection of a proposal for enforcement, because it seems to us that this is too much, there is no possibility in the Enforcement and Insurance Act. I can tell you this with all the experience I have in this process. The one who could have done it is not, the judge and the one who would have done it, who wouldn't have been executed. That is why I am in favour of this amendment to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance because it offers this possibility. I also said that on the Justice Committee, we have other options, which are also cruel; it is really not the most desirable thing right now to go into personal bankruptcy. But there's a possibility. In this process of personal bankruptcy, the debtor may also be consolidated, a specific plan made for him, is in a trial period, these debts can also be resolved after the trial period and a normal life can be brought to life, without those burdens on the transaction account, on the salary, on the real estate. Once you get into this blockade from all sides, it's very difficult. I've seen this a lot, and I've also advised a lot of people to use the institute of personal bankruptcy. And we have also corrected this in such a way that there is as little abuse as possible in this process. We've already told you why we support things. Allow me to say more about the amendment that we tabled, we are proposing a new article 70a. This is an amendment which introduces a transitional provision in the light of the amendment adopted by the Committee on Justice to re-establish the power to decide in matters initiated on the basis of a authentic instrument. This is now decided by the Central Department of the authentic instrument before the District Court in Ljubljana. Currently, the Supreme Court of Ljubljana is the sole competent court to decide on complaints in these cases. By 2010, all four higher courts had jurisdiction over this, and this arrangement and the amendment had been brought back because also the debtors and creditors came from these areas to which the disputes concerned. It is also true that the higher courts decide on this and not to reduce the number of cases decided by all four higher courts. The only purpose of this amendment, for which I also invite you to support it, is to allow a transitional period of one month for the Supreme Court in Ljubljana and the rest of the courts to adapt to this regime. However, if we do not accept it, the matter will move a little faster, but there is no reason why this amendment would not be supported here if an amendment had already been adopted, with which we reintroduced the jurisdiction of all four higher courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u72	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u73	A few responses. Under the pretext of defending these solutions — I am not saying that they are all bad — it is mixed in some way. Mr Škoberna spoke about the execution of financial resources and that it is not possible to postpone or abolish it, but about small entrepreneurs, who are clearly serving their bread with their work; but I do not think that this is comparable to real estate execution. These little entrepreneurs or someone else still has every opportunity to take the car, furniture, pay, whatever. The point is this, and this is not even the subject of debate today, because our amendments on the committee have not been confirmed to be implemented for real estate if the only thing you have and where you live is simply impossible, because it is indeed some extreme measure. Or that this is taken as the last thing you can do when there is nothing else you can do; but obviously it's too much for the coalition. What we have proposed, what we have been warning all along, is that there would be no work in cases where there are other options. And the minister said there were other options. These other options have existed so far, but we know how creditors, especially large companies, operate – when they track a certain debt that is repeated, they use all the possibilities that exist: execution on financial assets, on movable property, on real estate and the like. And what will pay off the debt first will be done. In principle, it should not be these situations now, but it has happened, Minister. It's happened and it's happened several times. And even this "theoretic" cannot be convincing. I warn you once again, we talked about whether enforcement would be the only real estate or a suitable apartment, if it were tenants, really the last and the ultimate option. In theory, you can claim that this is the case under this law, but theoretically, many things can happen, and theoretically, such things are usually not enough or not enough. As far as free legal aid is concerned, yes, we have a special law, but we also know how you tightened it in this mandate. We know what the conditions are for you to get free legal aid. It is obtained automatically only by those who are recipients of cash social assistance; but you will not convince me that those who live with a minimum wage are on minimum pensions and so on, that they have every opportunity to obtain an adequate legal representation. You yourself said that there were many cases when the procedure for such execution was initiated, but that the realization was small. So if this reality is small, if such executions actually occur and such a number is small, or it would not be possible for these people, even if it is a case of socially disadvantaged citizens and citizens, to find some money to provide them with free legal assistance. That's why we're talking about a minimum. These are extreme cases, for socially disadvantaged people who deserve some special or separate free legal aid regime that would be a little easier to access and allow them to avoid such extreme situations. Colleague Murgel also spoke of the meaning of this suspension; this suspension for debtors, excuse me, is only an extension of agony. But how does a person feel when he receives a letter from his home that says that the execution process against his property has begun; and this is the only thing in which he lives. How, though, would this person feel if this extended, I don’t know, for a year? Also, this number reasoning, I don't think that it means anything to such a person, that it comes in a small percentage or in one or two percent of such executions. Some of these problems can be solved with free legal aid. Okay, there's some special regime going through the basic law, but it's not comparable to the traffic regime at the airport or anything like that. We have also given fishermen a special state representation, compensation for damage on board vessels, which is right; but I do not think in such cases it is so high that we cannot find these several thousand euros to solve these things. And I don't understand that. You set up the law in this way, the other amendments that we proposed on the committee were unacceptable, but we are really talking about a minimum security guard, some minimum symbolic gesture that the state would give to such people. I don't think it's some kind of act or avoid these executions, but it's really those situations where it's just a matter of whether or not a person will have a roof over his head at the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u74	Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u75	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Mr. Secretary! I have already said in my opening remarks in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that we will support this amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance. For we believe that some of the highlights or solutions do go in the right direction. However, I also said that we would closely monitor the implementation of this law. This means that, in particular, the courts will have to carefully weigh — carefully weighing — and make wise and just decisions in the case of operations. Two key issues are within this law, which undoubtedly represents a solution. This is a more proportionate measure with regard to real estate enforcement in cases where the debtor’s debt is extremely low. I have already said that there have been approximately 7 000 200 or 7 000 300 real estate executions in this country in ten years, where the debt was lower than hundreds of euros. Of course, that's worrying. I know now the Minister will say that not all executions have been made. It really did not come, but it is already that there are so many debt cases that are lower than hundreds of euros, which means that we have one serious problem in the country. And this serious problem is linked to a severe, inappropriate and bad social picture of this country. This is primarily the responsibility of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, and consequently the Minister of Justice, and finally the whole government and the President of the Government. Today, we are in a situation where regrettably, although this is something else to show off, almost 300,000 people are still living below the poverty line; in the worst times and situations there are especially women over 65 years of age, widows, who face a difficult situation, which then passes into so-called social exclusion. Here we are talking about social justice, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Are we, in fact, a social and legal state, as we have written in the Constitution, in fact, a socially just state. February 20th marks the day of social justice. And it would be good for us all to ask ourselves together whether we are actually meeting these conditions so that we can say that we are a socially just state. I don't think so. That is why I have also decided that, as President of the Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, I should like to convene a meeting with this particular issue. On 23 February, it will be about social justice, about social exclusion, about poverty among the elderly, although we have already dealt with this on several occasions on our committee, and also about the so-called energy poverty, to which I have been alerting since these social pressures of individuals have taken place. So I welcome the first solution, which is related to a more proportionate measure with regard to real estate enforcement. I also welcome the measure relating to social work centres. I came from simple findings, and I invited, among other things, representatives of social work centres to the petition committee when we spoke about this law as an interested working body. There, they made it clear that there were jobs or workflows that the social work centres knew nothing about or were informed of five minutes before the 12th, if I say so. This is not a proper relationship that we would expect to solve when we want to solve some hardships, to solve individual cases. I'm sure every story is its own. I believe that in these cases we may also have someone who can in some way play a piece of legislation that I am and say nothing there, but I deeply believe that there are a large number of people, especially with regard to the data we have from the Statistics Office, who, when such executions take place on property, are themselves in really severe social distress. And these people need help. I have previously said in the position of the Group of Members that it is not only necessary to ensure a functional, social and legal state, as enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but also to ensure dignity. Dignity is also one of those fundamental human rights enshrined in the highest legal act. And that is why I welcome this step forward in this relationship; of course, I am aware that there will be a number of other things to be done first in the background of the social picture, to establish a social environment where people will not come into such severe difficulties that they will then have 7,000 200 cases of real estate executions; but that we will be able to solve this faster and more successfully before, where the problem begins. But it starts somewhere else, not in the execution itself. It begins in the state in which individuals are found; and as I have already said, this is not good, and I keep reminding myself of this either as a Member or as President of the Commission on Human Rights. And, of course, I will continue to do so. I mentioned social work centers earlier. I welcome the correction within the amendment to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, which is that now the social work centres will be informed immediately when the procedures for operations occur. This seems good to me because only concerted action can produce better results. I mentioned the Vaskrsic case earlier. Why do I mention him so many times? Not because there would be only this case, but because the European Court of Human Rights has also made it clear to us that, as a country, we have violated the first human rights protocol here, which speaks of the right to property. And, of course, it must be some story, some lesson that we all have to learn from together. I find that, thank God, in this case the government or the ministry has accepted this teaching and decided to fix some things. The Vaskrsic case certainly shows the situation of a person in the fight against a country when there are no other options and then submits an application to the European Court of Human Rights. There, the European Court tells us that the measure was disproportionate to the amount of the debt, namely EUR 124, and that the state must now pay EUR 85,000. I hope, I really hope we've all learned something from this story together. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support this law because we believe that in these parts, which I have just mentioned, it is certainly going in the right direction; we will closely monitor how it will be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u76	Colleagues and colleagues, does anyone else want to discuss it? I'm guessing yes, so I'm inviting you to sign up for the debate. The application shall be made. The word is given to Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. A proposal for the Law on Enforcement and Insurance is being completed before us. You could say -- finally. We could also say how much grief must have gone through in this country, that we have taken a difficult step forward, but, given the situation of the people in this country, it will do much to help. Of course, the European Court also had to show us what to do. This is the sad side that we have simply not found in this country ourselves that this law needs to be changed. The law's touching on the operation. However, the specific law applies mainly to works when it comes to real estate enforcement, to property properties, when a person can also come to his home for a certain debt. It was heard that there were around 7,000 200 executions in the process; let's let it go. However, I think that today is the moment when we are talking about those other executions when we are talking about the apartments that they use as non-profit dwellings. Unprofitable dwellings are for those who are supposed to live on the edge or harder, and this would somehow help them. But here we have at least some numbers, although I am surprised that the state does not collect these numbers at all and does not operate with them. But only the Ljubljana Housing Fund, Maribor and the State Housing Fund, if I call it that, deposit about 100 people from non-profit apartments each year. Now, let's count those who live in profitable apartments, folks. We have a really big problem in this country. It's a really big problem, and this job is rarely talked about. It's very rare. And the most tragic thing is that we don't even have the data we need to be on the pile. And why do people bother you? Especially because they're not able to pay the bills. The rent for non-profit flats is no longer valid for a family with, I will not say, slightly above the minimum wage, they are even harder than those with a minimum wage because they do not receive various social transfers to pay their obligations regularly. And there's an operation. Earlier, colleague Vinko Gorenak spoke about the current treatment of the law when he spoke of so-called equity loans as a matter of common sense. Of course, this will be necessary from now on. It has already been, and we can see that decisions have been taken where the European Court said: No, you have done the wrong thing. So there are other options. But also now, because the Minister himself said earlier, theoretically, it is still possible for an individual to lose his property for a few 10 euros. And here it is important what the judge will then do, which measures he will take before he decides to do so. In other words, it has been said that the state here does not provide assistance, given that it is on the other hand guilty of a bad situation. I am a part of this, but in the part where we are talking about humanitarian organisations, such as Karitas, which actually collects its resources with the help of citizens and citizens, and also helps those who are ahead of the job, who cannot pay their obligations and who could be ahead of the job. However, I cannot say that when social work centres and some NGOs are involved, because they receive money from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This is a state measure, only from another bag, but the small one is finally the same. But the problem is why we haven't done such things before. I was hurt by the information that the social work centres would know about individual assignments five before the 12th. I would now expect such centres to have some checks and to monitor the social picture a little bit more in the environment. For five before twelve, you can actually make wrinkles a little bit. All right, that's what's going on with this law. It is also being corrected that we hope that it will prevail in the judiciary and that this proportionality will also be taken into account in such a way that it will become more durable; therefore, we certainly support the law in this part. It is also true that what Mr Weber said earlier is necessary to eliminate any possibility of corruption in this area. The fact that there's no corruption, I can't tell you who you're selling to today, not to kids in kindergarten because they're already getting corruption notes. It's corruption, corruption shows up not only in this area, remember. We collect stoppers for the treatment of children because there is corruption in health care, not because there is not always enough money, but because there are veins and so on. And here too, we need to be careful and be very careful, so I also hope that you will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, in which we propose that every two years the National Assembly will carry out on this subject with regard to the data obtained, the report by the Ministry, including a review of what is going on, that we can monitor matters in concrete terms and see whether things are improving. If not, what can we do next? I think this is responsible; except for some ideological decision, if the Slovenian Democratic Party does not, at any cost, I do not really know who could be against such an amendment. For this is also the matter of the congregation of the State taking its part in this work, and keeping watch over it. As far as free legal aid is concerned, I don't know, I've looked at the amendment, here it clearly speaks about that when it comes to real estate, which represents the debtor's home. If he represents the debtor's home, then we'd probably take over his yacht, Minister. I don't think we're talking about yacht people here. I don't even know them; but the fact is, we're talking about those who will be taken from home, apartment, roof over their heads. Even if a matter turns into a moving debt, how important it is that such people have the right advice. That's some advice. This can also be part of corruption. I do not intend to go into debt anymore, as we say, we support the changes in the law, I regret that we had to get a slap before the European Court as well, that so many and so many people are still suffering in this country because they lose their roof over their heads and could get rid of some things sooner; that we still have to worry and help citizens in the way of collecting stoppers and other forms that citizens remember themselves to save children from operations and so on, that they are not needed and then they are looking for alternative solutions. It's all in public health, so there won't be any mistake. Consider, too, the proportions of those who do not have ownership, who do not have anything in non-profit apartments, and who must fly on the road. These too are to be considered, and we must also look for important solutions in this regard, because the fact is that the numbers are large and the country is obviously not in the interest of choosing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u78	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u79	Thank you for your word. Just one more response, depending on whether the right time really means a good solution or not. From the very interpretation of the law, we can read that those in financial distress, in fact, are in shock, and so is the explanation. And when we delay this process, this agony can last for a very long time, and thus we somehow suffer the debtor and the creditor to come to their payment. I would also like to obtain information that we have not been able to obtain on the Committee on Justice when we have examined the law. At the time, the Minister did not have all the information on how many real estate orders had been issued, so he would have taken this opportunity if his colleagues had already provided him with this information to know how many cases already in the process this law would apply. Because the law will apply to those who will not be included in the circle of orders already issued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u80	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! Actually, I wasn't going to make any calls, but I was provoked. There's a rumor in front of me that someone rarely talks about it. And I've been talking about this for three years, and mostly I've been stuck in a wall with my head. Mrs Murgel says that we from the Left have some such and other information. Apparently, Mrs. Murgel and I come from two different Maribors. Many of the information I have is basically from former colleagues, judges and judges from Maribor. We also remember when we brought Mr. Krabonja to the National Assembly, who is trying to solve these matters in Maribor. I remember when the Social Democrat referee talked about how we had aged ethicists in Levica – not statisticians, thank you – and cited her professors who were better than my former ones; and she even said that she would work for social well-being in Slovenia in the non-governmental sector and she survived. I listened to this praise from the Slovenian Democratic Party. Politicians and politicians with longer kilometres, tabulated, have a similar problem to that of bankers on the commission that we question – you lose your memory. How did we get into debt culture in Slovenia if I say so? First, the LDS fell apart, then we had the last konjunkture 2004-2008, then the third, fourth wave of so-called tycoon privatisation was carried out, where the then government took quite a few tax liabilities away from employers, including a reduction in profit tax. If you listen to employers today, they talk like they donate a gross wage to a worker as if the worker did not come. Pay's payin', pay's payin'. Gentlemen, this is the starting point. The starting point is that this country never had a serious housing policy, and one, the other, was in power. Mrs Irgle, you've been in Parliament since 2004, if I've seen it right. But you should think back a little bit about how we get there. The Minister, who is now absent, spoke “in theory, theory”. There's also a difference, if you want, in theory, in ideology, in values. Miro Cerar played in Alan Ford's band, and apparently his favorite character is Superhik, who takes the poor and gives it to the rich. Social democracy has turned to the third path. If I hear the minister, who from the executive branch, or who from the coalition, that the realization is small – Hello, is anyone home?Oh, my God! What kind of reality we're talking about. But this is the purest ideology that actually speaks through the political mouth. The policy objective is to address the reasons for this. And the vast majority of people didn't agree to this because of their own atrocities, let's face it. It is not a sin to be poor; it is a sin that politics does not address the causes of poverty. And this did not happen from the beginning, and also this coalition, which has been promising us for three years, how it will find systemic solutions, has not found them, because there are too many people in politics who want to be in politics but are not capable of systemic thinking very simply. We don't even touch why we came into debt culture, how we're going to turn the story. And then you're reading, I don't know, the law on promoting some investments, which is an extension for some future and subsequent corruption. We need to think about a whole series of things and start actually dealing with the elimination of reasons; not to listen to a new minister or minister who will say or say that this is theoretically fine, but people will still depend on me paraphrasing Minister Kopačeva, the non-governmental sector. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u82	We have one replica. Dr. Jasna Murgel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Chairman. I think my buddy Duck got me a little bit wrong. I did not say that executions are non-implementation or whatever; I only said that the data that is mentioned on the proposals submitted for enforcement are interpreted in one way or another. The Left does this most often by saying 100,000, in large numbers it speaks; it does not say how many actual executions are actually realized, even those on real estate. I also said that every assignment, every real estate execution, which is not easy, is at least owed to the debtor, that these are very difficult situations and that I understand them. The law on enforcement and insurance is intended for the payment of claims. We now also introduce this possibility that the court may postpone enforcement in specific circumstances where a disproportionate claim is made disproportionately compared to the level of the property value. With this amendment, we give the Court the opportunity to act in an appropriate manner. In the existing law, this option is not designed as it is in the novel. While the law on enforcement and insurance is very complex, it gives specific instructions as to who may suggest something, who may not, what the jurisdiction of the court and the court may not exceed them. Here, for example, we give him the opportunity to allow his execution under an official obligation to another asset. If this were the case with Vaskrsić, there is a basic observation that the court did not allow execution on a second remedy quickly enough; the social case there I cannot talk about, but good. Numbers can be interpreted — even in an execution where they are huge, these are the most numerous proceedings in the courts — in various ways. If we want to present, as if there are a lot of real estate executions, we choose what suits us, that's what I wanted to tell you. It's the same as the real estate sale orders. Even if you get information on this, it does not say that these are all executions, where real estate execution will actually take place, that real estate will actually be sold, because the sales order will be published a month before the sale and in the meantime there can be many more. The creditors may also propose a postponement, in which case the implementing instrument will also be used and the social work centre will be included and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u84	The word is received by the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčič, followed by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'll be brief. We're a little distant. First of all, I'd like to say what I hope we're all aware of. Today we are talking about the Law on Enforcement and Insurance. This often deals with consequences, not with causes. I agree that the reasons are extremely important, but they are not the subject of today's debate. The second thing, Dr. Duck, and now you're leaving; because in my word that theoretically it's still possible for this to happen to trigger your interesting reaction, I would like to say the following. Unless the law expressly states that executions on immovable property are prohibited, it is possible that an anomaly may arise. My task, the task of the government, is to believe that it is also the task of this national assembly to adopt measures and legal solutions that will limit such risks. We believe that this proposal will do so in a way that is appropriate, appropriate and which protects the socially weaker ones who have found themselves in these situations because of various things. However, this is not an object and a number of these reasons are indeed linked to systemic problems that clearly exist in this society and country. In fact, this law requires that the court and others who are called upon to do so, formal institutions such as social work centres – social work centres are not non-governmental humanitarian institutions, but state institutions – the court and social work centres must do everything they can to make real estate implementation the last, last resort. Earlier, Dr. Vatovec said in his reply to Ambassador Škobernet that they could go to the car. This is exactly what we prescribe, if anything else, to go on official duty with the execution of the movable, the money, and to make sure that this is identified. In the event that this is not possible, the social work centre may be involved, and enforcement may be withdrawn. Yes, at that time, of course, the sword of Damocles hangs over an individual, these are extremely difficult situations; but on the other hand, we have only this possibility to write in law that execution on property is not possible. And here we will all agree that we cannot do this. In our best faith, with regard to social injustices, we have drawn up this proposal on the difficult situation of individuals; we think it represents a good interim variant of the insurance of one and other legitimate interests. It will be necessary to monitor its implementation, although we cannot agree that, as proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party with the amendment, this is because these procedures are run by the courts and therefore cannot be reported to the National Assembly as the Ministry of Justice, but that could be done more by the courts. That's what I was gonna say. If the law is passed, I am sure that the effect will be immediate. However, so that in the future there will not theoretically be any irregularity, love of God, you can with better locksmiths than I can say, Dr. Duck, of course you oppose me, but I am so honest and correct that I say that this law will not and cannot solve all problems. But it will be an important step in the right direction, which I think we are all taking here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u86	Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I would also like to say something else about the content of the Enforcement and Insurance Act under consideration. In the position of the Group of Members, I have talked a lot about the enforcement of real estate, especially as regards the execution of the House, the only place where the family or individual lives. And it happened in the Vaskrsić case, as we have heard today, several times that the house, the home of the family, was sold for the rich debt that Vaskrsić owed to the creditor. And I agree with the observation made earlier by honourable Member Eva Irgl in her debate that she regrets that the State of Slovenia had to get the European Court of Human Rights slap because it happened. And this is not the only case that our country has had to bear the consequences of the European Court of Justice. I think it is high time we began to pay more attention to human rights when adopting legislation in our country. In my position, however, I did not mention an online auction, which is also a very important novelty of this law, because I believe that it will be impossible for these auctions to result in various irregularities, for example, for the bidders to negotiate with each other and so on. Now the bidders will be anonymous and will be able to reach a higher price, which is not insignificant. It does not refer directly to this law, but it has been said several times today about social justice, and I would also like to reiterate that there is a real problem with us when this country is not a social state, as it is enshrined in the Constitution. These have been mentioned as pensioners, we have major problems here when they receive minimum pensions, mentioned were women over 65 years of age who are either alone or living in a one-household community. When they settle all their obligations, they're not left with food. And I think that something will have to be done here so that social work centres will also have to work harder in this area to solve these problems. Then I would also point out what makes me think of this minimum wage, which is the degradation of human work, to work 7, 8 or more hours a day, which also happens when workers are exploited, for a minimum wage. What pensions will these people have once they reach that age? In the Red Cross, where I work, I have encountered the problem of a highly educated citizen who has a 12-year-old daughter who is unemployed and has been unemployed for years. Mother and daughter live with a pension after their late father or husband – €70 a month. This is also a major problem because this young girl who goes to school lives below the poverty threshold, that the mother lives below the poverty threshold, that she cannot offer this child what belongs to him. I think that here our country should pay more attention to parents, children and all unemployed. And there's one more thing I'd like to remind you that doesn't belong here either, but I think it's important that I get it out here. In these days, I have heard information about migrant workers living in Slovenia and working in Slovenia, all contributions are taken away, just like our workers. But when these people lose their jobs, they don't get unemployment benefits, which is why you won't believe because they don't have a permanent residence in Slovenia. But when they pay all their contributions, it doesn't matter that they don't have a permanent residence. Here, too, our social state has denied and I think that our Minister will also have to see the problems in this area, particularly this problem, and also solve it as he pleases. To conclude, I would like to say that I support this law, as I have already said in my position. I am pleased that the Minister and the Ministry have submitted it for consideration and that this law solves things that are excruciating problems when someone is left homeless because of a substantial debt; and that this decision is that the court, under official responsibility, will see to it that the procedure is postponed, and that it calls on the centre for social work to engage and help solve the problem, and that those means are found to pay back that small debt; and that a man is resolved not to lose his home. I will support this law as well as our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u88	Colleagues and colleagues, would anyone else like to discuss Article 20 and the amendment? I find that no, so I am concluding the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 70 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? I find that no; that is why I am concluding the debate. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the groups of ten Members and Members with the first signed by Dr Clearly Murgel for the new 70th Article. Anybody want to talk? I find that no; that is why I am concluding the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. I also interrupt the 16th item of the agenda. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, this is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the execution of criminal sanctions. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Magi Minister for Justice. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u89	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Messengers and Members! The new Law on the Enforcement of Penal Sanctions, which is before you, is very extensive. The Novela amends over 100 articles and is the fruit of the broad professional coordination that took place since 2016 and the whole of last year. It contains solutions that allow more uniform and systematic enforcement of criminal sanctions and provide room for changes in the area of enforcement and conclusion of international treaties and agreements on prison sentences in Slovenia for persons convicted by international criminal courts. I will highlight the six goals pursued by this law and set by the law. The first objective is to regulate the enforcement of alternative imprisonment and thereby increase legal certainty, taking into account the principle of proportionality of interference with the freedom of an individual who is not convicted of a crime. Well, let's just say it for a little while. As you know, by a decision of the Constitutional Court three years ago, he was abolished or, as an unconstitutionally recognized arrangement of the so-called removal prison. By amending the Law on Offences, which was confirmed by this National Assembly in this reference, a so-called substitute prison was enacted as a last resort for those who do not pay certain fines for offences. The Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions sets out how this is actually implemented as the most extreme and last resort. The second objective, as already mentioned, is to provide a normative basis for the adoption of an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the International Criminal Court. The third objective is to fully and uniformly regulate the placement of convicts, associated rights of individuals who remain in prison in an open, semi-open or closed section. It is the legal application of a series of recommendations made by the Ombudsman and the Committee to Prevent Torture in the Council of Europe. This part was particularly positive for the Ombudsman, as you may know, on the committee responsible. The fourth objective is to provide a substantive basis for the execution of tasks on the newly introduced screening system. The Probation Act was approved by this National Assembly last year, it is fully operational with April 1st, we have financial resources. The probation service is subject to certain new powers, which have now been in the domain of the Administration for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, primary house prison, work in general benefit and protective supervision, which are duly deleted and transferred to the Probation Act. The fifth objective is to transpose the provisions of European law on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime. If I mention plastic, the law lays down the legal basis and obligation of the prison administration that victims are, for example, informed in the event of a suspect's escape or the release of a suspect of a particularly violent crime and that the protection of personal data is no longer hampered. The sixth objective, however, is to provide a more appropriate legal basis for standardisation at the sub-legislative level. According to domestic law, we regulate, at legal level, the powers of law enforcement officers who have been overly regulated in the past by sub-laws. Since the business conditions are met, I propose that a third review of the bill be carried out at the same meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u90	The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Jan Škobernet, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary! At its 46th regular session, the Committee on Justice considered the proposed proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions. Initially, a similar presentation was made by Minister Klemenčič, as you have just heard. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service did not express any specific reservations; he also expressed his cooperation in the drafting of the law and the satisfaction with the law to the Ombudsman. Since there was no debate on this law by Members and Members, we have confirmed all the proposed amendments tabled only by the coalition groups, and this has resulted in the conclusion of the Committee's consideration of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u92	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u93	I thank you for your word, Vice President-in-Office. Nice greetings to all present! The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law that we have today on the parliamentary benches was mainly based on the proposals of the Ombudsman and the Administration for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions. The Ombudsman's initiative, inter alia, reduces the maximum allowable accommodation in the event of a convict being transferred to a single room, which will be newly more proportionate to the reason and purpose of such accommodation, while the limitation of the duration is also more clearly linked to the convict's medical condition. Part of the proposed amendments is related to the already adopted Probation Act, which will apply on 1 April 2018, namely the proposal under consideration, takes due account of changes in the field of domestic detention probation, the work of the general benefit and the Institute of Protection Supervisory. New developments related to the area of offences are also important, particularly with regard to the institute of surrogacy. In doing so, payment of the fine shall also be introduced at a time when a compulsory detention is already under way. According to the new rules, those on their way to alternative prisons will be given another opportunity to settle the fine and thus avoid prison. We certainly support this change in the Desus Group. The report of the Administration for the Implementation of Criminal Sanctions shows that, although the spatial distress in Slovenian prisons decreased last year, they are still more than 100 % occupied. Of course, in the Desus Group, we want the recently adopted Law on Testing to achieve additional positive effects in this area and reduce the number of people in prison. The important news brought by the bill under consideration is also informing the injured about the exits or the defector. The Court will inform the injured person of the occurrence of the sentence of the convicted person and on this basis the injured person will be able to request that he be informed of the outcome, release or escape of the sentenced person. In the Desus Group, we are particularly pleased that the Ministry of Justice has listened to the Administration for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions and has taken into account their proposals and comments, because their basic mission is to enforce criminal sanctions and to ensure that persons are held in prison and that they are held in prison and that they are able to resocialise prisoners. What needs to be done in this area is best known by the performers themselves. On the basis of the above, we will support the draft law in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u94	Ms Ludmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u95	Good-bye, everybody! The proposed changes and amendments to the law bring some added value, but they still have no solutions to all problems of law enforcement in practice. In Novi Slovenija we have already warned last year that the establishment of the Probation Office will require the employment of 56 public servants. In only 4 years, the Office will need 8 million euros and later 2 million euros a year. We agree that the resocialisation and reintegration of perpetrators of crime is necessary, but there is no overcomparative evidence that the public debt owed to young generations amounts to EUR 32 billion and 80% of Slovenian GDP. While the four-member Slovenian family carries a strong over €60,000 of public debt, it does not seem reasonable to set up new public offices to care for the in-depth treatment of perpetrators of crimes. The execution of house jails, work in general benefit and protection supervision is now taking place within the framework of the legal competences of the courts, the police and social work centres. In short, the trial activity is expected to take place on 1 April this year, but according to our information, the relocation of 24 employees from social work centres to probation units is still questionable. At the institute of surrogacy, which was introduced by the last amendment of the Law on Offences, we have doubts as to the new possibility that a person, after being on the way to a replacement prison in the escort of an officer who, by order of the court, executes an enforced arrest, will pay a fine and thus avoid the deprivation of liberty. We are convinced that the person who has not paid the fine before then is also the last minute before the fact is done. With regard to work in general, we have also pointed out in Novi Slovenija that some small municipalities in Slovenia, especially in the countryside, cannot provide parts that could be used for general benefit. As we know, such works are most often carried out in pension homes, institutions for disabled youth, municipal companies, and very rarely in companies. Small congregations that do not have such institutions cannot thus provide such works or at least not enough such works. It is in rural municipalities that we face a higher level of unemployment and the actual inability to pay the fine. However, the news is welcome that the victim will now be informed of the convict's release or escape if there is a risk that he might cause damage again, but this should be automatic, not that it is left to the victim to ask for it if she wants to be informed. In New Slovenia, we will not oppose the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u96	Ms Irena Kotnik will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u97	Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Colleagues, colleagues! Today's proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions is part of criminal law and is therefore substantively bound to the provisions of all criminal law laws. The solutions offered by the proposed novelties are aimed in particular at adapting the regulatory framework for ensuring the enforcement of criminal sanctions to some other changes: changes in the area of offences, the establishment of a law enforcement authority and the findings of the Ombudsman in the annual reports and the response of the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture. The proposed amendment contains quite extensive changes, and the most important of all are provisions ensuring the proper enforcement of the institution of alternative prisons, the uniform and systemic arrangements for the placement of convicts, the regulation of the issue of rights, support and protection of victims of crime. The proposed amendments will also make it more transparent to regulate the area of volunteering. Given that the vision of the authority that enforces criminal sanctions in the Republic of Slovenia is the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions to develop a modern, human and social welfare-oriented prison system, we are particularly pleased with the Party Group of the Modern Centre. The bill takes into account all the proposals made by the Administration in preparing the amendments. Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party support the proposed solutions, as they will have an impact on improving the existing regulatory framework and thus provide a more appropriate legal basis for the enforcement of criminal sanctions in the Republic of Slovenia. For all the reasons listed above, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u98	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I also interrupt the 17th item of the agenda. We're moving to 18. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the Law on Special Rights of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities in the field of breeding and education within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Andrea Barle Lakota.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! With the proposed amendment to the law, we do not resolve fundamental conceptual issues, but in particular define more precisely the provisions of the law that are necessary to implement the current models of education. In doing so, we set out three things in particular, first of all, the State's obligation to provide educational study programmes in order to educate professionals who then implement such programmes. Secondly, there are obligations of the State to provide development services for the development of those models, and the third is to determine language skills for teachers. In determining the language for teachers we followed the implementing instructions adopted by the Council of Experts of the Republic of Slovenia in 2002, 2005, 2011 and so on. Some conceptual questions about the existence of different possible models have also arisen in the debates under this law. We have committed ourselves to looking at these conceptual issues in the future in greater detail, but on the basis of expertise. The Ministry has therefore already launched development research projects in 2017 to examine more specifically such open conceptual issues. The proposed amendments therefore only want to address some of the implementation issues that have arisen in the public eye. In accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the third consideration of the bill be carried out at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u100	The draft law was treated by the Commission for the National Communities as a parent working body. In order to present the report to the Commission, I give the floor to the President of the Commission, Mr Robert Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u101	Mr President, representatives of the government, or ministry, colleagues and colleagues, good day! At its 9th meeting, on 2 February 2018, the Commission addressed this proposal for a law submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The Commission received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Hungarian National Self-Governmental Community of Poland, the opinion of the Coastal Self-Governmental Community of Italian Nationality, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for National Organisations and the opinion of the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia of 30 January 2018. Amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 12, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 and 23 were tabled within the time limit. They all followed the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service. The representative of the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Andreja Barle Lakota, explained in her introductory explanation the reasons for the need for this amendment of the law. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Mira Palhartinger, made comments on those provisions in which amendments have not been proposed or are not fully repealed. In its opinion presented by the representative of the Council of State Marjan Maučec at the meeting of the Committee, the Commission of the National Council of State gave the preliminary consideration to the need to unify the two models followed by the education process in the national mixed areas. This is, of course, a task that has no foundation either in practice or in the constitution. He argued that the advantage of the bill was to uniformize the diversity, but pointed out as problematic the assessment that the proposed law restricts employment opportunities in particular in an area where the Hungarian national community lives, as a new condition for employment is laid down as a condition for the completed bilingual primary school. Of course, I don't think there's any new condition. Ferenc Horvath, a representative of the Hungarian Self-Governmental Community, initially expressed disappointment at the fact that despite his good cooperation with the Government in drafting the draft law in the public and the cities, he was able to find allegations that they were discriminatory in determining the conditions. He stressed that the Hungarian National Community supported the changes. In the debate, the Secretary of State, Dr Andreja Barle Lakota, explained firstly that some of the comments made by the ZPS to the articles not covered by the amendments were deliberately abandoned in order to allow for smooth work in the educational process in the circumstances in which the Minister was given the opportunity to recognize the specifics and respond accordingly. Dr László Göncz stressed that the proposal for a law is the product of extensive professional work and an exceptional understanding of the issue by the Ministry. He said that both the umbrella organisation of indigenous national communities had participated in the drafting of the bill. He also drew attention to the negative perception of part of the public, which had understood some of the changes in the draft law in the direction of strengthening the Hungarian presence in the educational process, but pointed out that there has been little effort in the last 60 years to develop the relevant linguistic competence of the Hungarian national community. On the basis of Articles 131 and 53 of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission decided on amendments and adopted them. The Commission's amendment to Article 12, paragraph 1, was adopted by the Commission following the adjournment of the debate, thus making the amendment to Article 12, paragraph 1, irrelevant. In the end, the members and members of the Commission voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. The agreement of the two Members of the National Communities was also given on the basis of Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u102	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u103	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respected and respected! The Italian and Hungarian national communities in the Republic of Slovenia belong to a group of so-called historical national communities, corresponding to a specific model of minority protection by the State. The full legal regime or its basis is governed by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in Articles 5, 11, 61, 62 and 64. Their status and manner of exercise of rights are further regulated by sectoral laws and other sub-legislative acts, including municipal statutes and decrees, as well as in inter-State treaties and international conventions. The currently guaranteed protection of the rights of national communities in our territorial territory is, according to the assessment of the Desus Group at a moderately high level and the majority of other Member States, either from the European Union or from the entire world map, an example of excellence in ensuring human rights and fundamental freedoms in the field of minorities. Today we have before us a proposal for a novel one of many laws regulating minority protection. This is a law which, according to our assessment, is one of the key rules affecting the minority community, since it is a matter of education and education. More specifically, this law concerns the definition of the conditions to be met by professional workers and all other staff employed in educational establishments in bilingual areas. In order to maintain the language of the national communities and to ensure that the constitutions are consistently respected, quality education is also needed, which is implied, of course, by the appropriate level of knowledge of the language of the nationalities of those who teach. We are absolutely in agreement with this in the Desus Group. However, the bill that we have on the table generates considerable disdain and fear both at the local level among the civilian population, especially the majority nationality, which is of course Slovenian as well as professions. I am talking about Prekmurje, because unlike Primorska, there is a very different model of education. There have been no initiatives to ensure that both models are unified, and of course there is a desire for bilinguality in Prekmurje to be abandoned and for the education system to be brought closer to the one in the national mixed area where the Italian community lives. Of course, this intention is not new, which would have been created at the time of the law under consideration today, but it has been discussed according to our information for at least 10 years. I must admit that we were Members and Members of the Desus Group because of all the concerns – and these were not limited – presented to us from a specific local environment, to the draft law at the outset, quite sceptical and in doubts about support. However, until today, when the law in the final stage of adoption has experienced something, allow me to say so, mitigating details in view of the originally high level of knowledge required in the Hungarian language. We were also concerned about the latter in the parliamentary group, as we concluded that there would be difficulties in hiring people of the majority population, or in other words, that they would have the exclusive advantage of employing members of the minority in the bilingual area. At the stage of the examination of the law on the home working body, the requirements have only decreased slightly so that, according to the assessment of the majority of Members and Members of the Desus Group, the knowledge criteria are now more acceptable, including the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian Group of National Communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u104	Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues, dear colleague Roberto Battelli and colleague Dr. László Göncz! Why am I speaking both of you in particular? Because without their consent, such and similar laws cannot be adopted. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats and ourselves are for the absolute constitutional protection of the Italian and Hungarian national communities. I come from this environment alone, and we are all Members of the majority nation, and we are all Members of the Italian National Community and of the Hungarian National Community. I'm so sick of co-existence, up to that co-existence that's written with the big start. There is no such coexistence if any pretenses or pretenses are imposed by the majority nation, and there is no such coexistence if any pretenses, unreasonable, illegal, unconstitutional, are enforced by the national community, one or the other. Comrade Battelli correctly stated in the Commission's report that he had somehow rejected the different opinions on the ground. I must say that, according to my information, this law was created on the proposal of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, but on the initiative of the Hungarian Hungarian Self-Governmental Community. We have an interesting arrangement and in some ways it is hard to understand – constitutional protection is the same as education, different. The Ministry and the teaching profession agree that bilingual education in Prekmurje – only there – is very difficult, the profession adds that it is ineffective. The Hungarian Moorish National Community has given some intonation to this law. I make it very clear, and this is one of my most difficult performances, because it is likely to fall on me, but let it fall, and I advocate cohabitation and mere cohabitation, not overcoming the majority or minority nation. The essential problem of the proposed amendments to the law is reflected in the determination of the competence of the Hungarian national community. At the 9th meeting of the Commission for the National Communities of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport pointed out that changes are necessary to ensure adequate staff. You have received, colleagues and colleagues, one or more letters from the professional public as well, and note that the proposed amendments to the law speak for strengthening the role of the Hungarian Self-Governmental Community in the adoption of educational and educational programmes, strengthening the role of the Hungarian Self-Governmental Community in determining the level of knowledge of the Hungarian language and for employees in bilingual kindergartens and schools, strengthening the role of the Hungarian Self-Governmental Community in the examinations of the Hungarian language, and granting and withdrawing public authority to carry out tests, strengthening the role of the Hungarian Self-Governmental Community in the field of bilingual education. The fact that the proposal contained 24 articles, the Legislative and Legal Service, our National Assembly, has torn it apart and commented on 17 articles. Colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to cancel out for a limited amount of time. The proposed amendments to the law are not based on professional but on political grounds. I would like to, but very quickly, at the beginning of this mandate to make every effort and realize what the Ministry of Education says – that this model of bilingual education has survived. But here some solutions, believe, go to undermining bilingual education, undermining — who will be satisfied with it?Oh, my God! Not the majority nation, but probably even less the Pomurian Hungarian self-reliant national community. The proposed amendments to the law greatly enhance the influence and power of the Hungarian self-government national community, since – you will find in the law, if you have not yet – it is no longer an opinion as it has been so far, but a consensus, that is to say, the possibility of knowing the programme and so on and so forth. True, thank God the Legal and Legislative Service has made many improvements in the direction of improvement. If the law, as drafted by the Government, were here today, they would strongly oppose me. Today we're just trying not to support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u106	Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in its Article 3, states that Slovenia is the country of all its citizens and citizens and does not specifically define how it acts in relation to the wishes of a majority or minority of that and that. It is said that this country has become independent, independent and that it is here for all its citizens and citizens. In this context, we look at and have to look at the law before us, and we also have to judge its contents through the prism of constitutional norms, which speaks of the fact that we have two indigenous national communities in this country, which, in order not to remain in the air, are not a burden, but are a cultural, social, political and economic contribution of our community and our country. Co-existence means, of course, that we must enable all citizens and citizens to have quality education, that they can carry out their cultural, linguistic and any other predispositions, and that life principles go from education to employment and the creation of an existing framework. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has, at least this is how we assess the Social Democrats, more than obviously tried to follow the principles of the implementation of the aforementioned constitutional articles, as well as the desire to preserve bilinguality, cultural diversity in areas where we have it in Slovenia, not only to preserve it, but also to encourage it because it means something worth preserving and which is worth encouraging. Those who have and have read the law in more detail will find that many fears, especially those that speak of expansionism and similar monasteries, are merely and above all superfluous. The updated categorization of what is a learning level of language from the law currently in force to the law before you today means that we are actually lowering the standard. The concern that we were applying the learning language to professional colleagues, to technical staff, and similar fears, at least as proved through the legislative process, became like any fear — they are not within them, and they are trapped around them. The National Assembly will, of course, make the greatest contribution to co-existence and to taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the diversity of cultures in the border area by allowing for a completely unnecessary discussion between the majority and minority nationalities, because, as has already been said, this country is, in Article 3, all its citizens and citizens. Regardless of nationality, we face the same questions, pressures and longings, and let us ask how to get our child to bread, how to have a decent life, how to ensure that he can solve the housing problem, and so on and so forth. The law before us actually solves something that makes Slovenia one of the positive examples, including lighthouses in world politics, which is increasingly trying to be caught in unnecessary nationalism and to find differences and disputes where we do not really have them. Our fundamental conflict in society is the conflict between some having everything and others fighting their whole lives to survive. And if the contribution of this law to maintaining bilingual education, which is rich in some area, is an opportunity for educational institutions to offer quality education to all who are part of this education, which will give them even more opportunities and opportunities than those who do not live in bilingual territory, then such a law is worth supporting. In the end, it is only worth supporting to make it clear that nationalism of any kind and by no one is welcome in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u108	The word is given by the Left Group, for which Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u109	Thank you, President. The issues of minorities and their cultural rights are part of a fundamental reflection on an equal and inclusive society, and since the beginning of this mandate in Levica we have been working to regulate the rights of minorities, not only for the indigenous national community, but also for the regulation of the rights of the Roma community, for example, or the rights of the national communities of the former Yugoslavia. That is why we have also decided in Levica to co-sign a law that will address the field of the realization of collective cultural rights of national communities from the former SFRY, despite the fact that the inclusion of minority rights in the Constitution would be the only non-discriminatory, comprehensive and, of course, also legally appropriate regulation of their status, which we still advocate. Although the specific status of the Roma community is defined in the Constitution, on the other hand, this minority does not receive sufficient attention and support. For decades, the Roma community, the Ombudsman, Roma organisations and societies have also been drawing attention to the lack of basic living conditions in the area of residence, education and employment of the Roma community in Slovenia. All of these are consequences of inadequate and outdated legislation. In Levica, we have also prepared, together with the Roma community, a legal proposal to improve their situation and the financial burden of the municipalities, but this assembly has not supported the proposal. On the other hand, we have a proper or at least approximately adequate legal protection of rights for the Italian and Hungarian national communities, and this has also been reflected by the proposed novels, which regulate the specific rights of these two national communities even in the field of education and education. This law, which is renewed after 17 years, regulates two models of education. For the Italian area, schools with Italian learning language are regulated and for Hungarian bilingual schools where both Slovenian and Hungarian are intertwined during the course. We in Levica estimate that both valid and proposed solutions to the conditions for the employment of teachers in bilingual schools are not at all controversial. The controversy over these conditions, which developed on the parent’s working body, seems to us overblown, even hostile to cities and, in the first place, exclusive. The completion of a primary or secondary bilingual school as a condition for the professional’s employment at bilingual school in law is not defined as necessary but as a sufficient condition. This means that these schools will also be able to teach those who will show a different degree of sufficient knowledge of Hungarian. So let's say with a certificate or a knowledge test at the state exam center. We have always supported greater implementation of bilingualism in Levika, so we note that there is a need to reach some consensus to respect the same rights and the same criteria on both sides of the border. But that is, of course, another issue of what we are dealing with today. If we really want to be an inclusive society, to live together, as we have listened to before, we need to do with one, first thing, and that is nationalism, saying to the majority people, which is of course boys, myth, and in some way actually living this diversity, which is noble to us, and this coexistence also actually, not only in words, start implementing. Of course not only with indigenous national communities, but with all those who live in this country, who are our fellow citizens, our fellow citizens. Only in this way will we be able to overcome these divisions, which are primarily in our heads and are based on empty fears.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u110	The word is given by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u111	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, the rest are present! The current Law on the Special Rights of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities in the Field of Education and Education contains provisions which have long been recast or adapted to the actual situation due to objective circumstances in the context of the permanent process of development of educational work. In addition, the law in force is now lacking in terms of the professional monitoring of the educational systems of the national communities and the responsibility of the competent state institutions for the education of appropriate professional staff, which are essential for the normal implementation of the education of the Italian national community on the coast and for the implementation of a bilingual educational model in the national mixed area in Prekmurje, where the Hungarian national community lives. The current model has also successfully introduced the so-called cross-cutting in the Slovenian and Hungarian languages years ago, which also needs to be implemented into the current legislation. In particular, the above-mentioned motives prejudged the need to amend the law under consideration and were also agreed upon by both national communities. In order to prepare the amendment of the law, the competent ministry has approached professionally and transparently and has been dealing with all the factors involved in the system of so-called national education in the past three years. The most intensive talks were held with implementing institutions and the proposal to amend the law is the result of concrete agreements with them to the greatest extent. As the strongest of the nuts, the change in the bilingual model in Prekmur was shown to relate to the language competences of professional workers, in particular as regards the level of Hungarian language management. In doing so, it should be pointed out that in this part of the debate in recent months there has also been some unargued, rather general interpretation of the content mentioned above, which was not based on the actual text of the law and was or was primarily aimed at creating unnecessary tensions between the majority people and the Hungarian national community. The proposed amendments to this law are in no way prejudged because the level of language management in the case of professional workers is virtually not sharpened as regards Hungarian language, nor does it refer to the existing staff in the bilingual educational model system. We can even say that, in the negotiations so far, the Hungarian National Community has ‘relented’ and the proposed provisions are merely the achievement of an already difficult level, and there are also derogations regarding the mastery of the Hungarian language, which the law is supposed to provide in the coming years of appropriate professional staff, so we continue to say, almost should not be. Among other things, due to the smooth implementation of the educational process without adequate education, i.e. without adequate education, a person who does not fulfil the prescribed conditions may also be employed within three years. Moreover, even if there are no suitable staff for three years, it is possible for the competent minister to also grant temporary employment of the candidate with inadequate language competences. Let me add that the Hungarian national community is not preparing for the collapse of this model – because unfortunately some are still stressing this – although this form of education may not be the most ideal for it. But in this case, there is no talk of it, nor is there a constitutional basis for it. It should be made clear that the bilingual model has long been not what it was theoretically conceived and, as is the opinion of the wider professional and laziness public, so that both languages are equally applied in this context. The presence of the Hungarian language in professional subjects sometimes does not reach 20% and is only an exception to those where bilinguality is actually present. However, despite these shortcomings, the amendment of the law in its entirety only brings added value because it is clearer to define the care of the competent institutions for the long-term education of adequate staff for the purposes of both communities and to upgrade the permanent care of the competent professional institution, i.e. the Institute for Education. Finally, it is only because of the substantive and stylistic upgrade of Article 12 mentioned above that we have tabled an amendment that is the result of the Ministry's cooperation, the competent institutions and our parliamentary groups. That is why both the proposed amendment and the bill will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u112	The text is given by Saša Tabakovic, a modern centre party group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u113	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The current Law on the Special Rights of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities in the Field of Education and Education of 2001 has not sufficiently provided a support environment for the implementation of the educational activities of indigenous national communities, in particular in the work of providing adequate staff in the educational process. The bilingual teaching model we know in Prekmurje is a demanding model. The programme has already been upgraded in the past, but so far the issue of providing adequate staff in such programmes has not been resolved. That is why today we have an amendment to the Law on the Special Rights of National Communities, which is the result of extensive professional work, understanding the issue by the competent ministry and more than two years of coordination, in which the two umbrella organisations of indigenous national communities participated. Its main purpose is to follow changes in practice in minority education in the Republic of Slovenia and to ensure higher quality bilingual education in Prekmurje or education in the Italian learning language on the coast. The draft law sets out more clearly the levels of knowledge for bilingual school workers, and it is also a clear commitment by the State to finance programmes in the languages of indigenous national communities at higher level, which will have a positive impact on ensuring the appropriate language quality of future school teachers in the national mixed area. Unfortunately, there have been some concerns on the part of the majority population, particularly in the Lendava area, regarding the bill recently, but the question arises in which shoes are put in place at the time of the adoption of the law. When, a good year ago, in the Austrian authorities, they wanted to ease conditions regarding the condition and requirement of the level of knowledge of the Slovenian language for the local administrators, not even teachers, but administrators who do not have such direct contact with students and students, some viewed the rights of minorities as different from those of the other national minority in our country. Such conduct should be considered; not only at the emotional, historical level, but also at the political level. That is why I am in fact positively surprised by the views of some parliamentary groups that give something to cultural diversity. In the SMC Group, we will advocate the proper fulfilment of the rights of legally recognised national minorities, and we will also support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u114	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u115	Your Honor! Education and education for members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities is an integral part of the education and education system in the Republic of Slovenia and is based on the rules governing pre-school education, primary education, lower and secondary vocational education, secondary vocational or technical and secondary general education. The conditions for implementation and the manner in which education and education are carried out and financed are governed by the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. The specificities of the part of the educational system and the exercise of the specific rights of members of the national community in the field of education and education are governed by this law. The specific objectives of education and education for members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities, the specific characteristics of the organisation, the network of kindergartens and schools, the adaptation of public programmes, as well as the specific conditions for professional workers in kindergartens and schools, bilingual business, financing for the construction of kindergartens and schools. The main reason, as has been said many times today, is to follow changes in practice in minority education in the Republic of Slovenia and to ensure higher quality bilingual education in Prekmurje or education in the Italian learning language on the coast. The fact is that both minority school models, both a bilingual model and a model of schools in Italian learning language, have been over 50 years old, and some major changes to the model have not been made in all this time. For this reason, certain solutions in the existing law need to be brought into line with the current legislation, in particular to adapt them to the current actual situation and consequently to the needs of minority education in the Republic of Slovenia. The Law on the Special Rights of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities in the Field of Education and Education is mainly based on the principle of accessibility of education and education for representatives of the national communities in their language. The new law brings some novelties: the legal changes to existing areas of education and education where Italian and Hungarian national communities have special rights add higher education to vocational education and the education and education of children, minors and young adults with special needs. The Novela also provides that bilingual curricula, catalogues of knowledge and test catalogues must be published bilingually and that bilingual tasks for pupils and students of bilingual schools should be provided for all knowledge competitions other than Slovenian and Hungarian, co-financed by public funds. In order to ensure accessibility of schools with Italian language or bilingual schools, it is possible for parents to enroll in schools with Italian language or bilingual school, even if they live outside the school environment. The bill is the product of extensive professional work and cooperation between the two large indigenous national communities and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Special Rights of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities in the field of education and education.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u116	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment of the Group of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Roberto Battelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wanted to say that the Faculty of Education of the University of Primorsk has been actively involved with the Slovenian minority in the Republic of Italy for a number of years, and this was the expression of many years of cooperation with the University of Trieste,Facoltο di Scienze della Formazione, so in Italy it is called the Faculty of Education, when university teachers and colleagues of the University of Primorsk took part in the study program Corso di Laureadi Scienze della formazione primaria, which means graduating from teaching skills, and conducted lectures and exercises in seven subjects in the Slovenian language. The education was funded by the Italian Government and was primarily intended for students of the Slovenian minority of the said study programme and for teachers and teachers in schools and schools with Slovenian learning language in Tržaška. The fact that we have schools on the coast with Italian learning language is a result of postwar treaties, postwar agreements, relations at the Slovenian western border. Thus, it is not until the mid-1970s that the border issue with the Pomeranian Agreements is resolved. Article 8 of the Abolition Agreement, which summarises the special statute attached to the London Memorandum, where the obligation of Yugoslavia is now Slovenia, because it is the successor, the establishment of schools with Italian learning language and the commitment of Italy to the establishment of schools with Slovenian learning language in Furlania - Juliani Krajina. If we did not have these schools, this is an international obligation, I do not know the bilingual education in Prekmurje occurs later and in the 1970s, the first 1970s – because some of us were there when these discussions took place or we witnessed these discussions, we were not involved – but they wanted to do bilingual education on the coast. [[…]] Of course, this was not possible because of international agreements and respect for international agreements. In 2017, however, the Faculty of Education of the University of Primorsk successfully applied for an invitation to choose an external educational agency for Slovenian students in Tržaška and conducted eight modules for educators and teachers in schools and schools with Slovenian language in Tržaška. This training was organised within the framework of the permanent professional training plan for schoolchildren in 2016-2019 under the law of good school by the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Italy, Piano per la formazione dei docenti 2016-2019 la Buona Scuola, Ministero dell'Istruzione and so on. And all of this is expected to continue in the coming years. The Italian Government has also provided for funds for the Slovenian National Community in Italy in the National Stabilisation Act and the funds are also intended to provide for Slovenian language in schools. This has been going on for several years and will also take place in the coming years. So here really is the question, all of us who are parents, or even those who are not, which level of knowledge of the Slovenian language we would like to be able to master those who teach in secondary schools. A degree which also foresees education in the Slovenian language at the university, because it is a condition. Higher and higher education is even a condition for someone to study at school. Would you settle for the fact that that knowledge is on the level of high school? Would you like it to be the way it is throughout the country, that it is training, that it is knowledge, that it is higher or higher education? Because if nothing is done to ensure, in the interest of national communities, a certain level, a professional level of learning language control, then it is impossible to realize everything that is necessary in order to ensure that the language and culture of a minority exists. Unless it's so big, it reproduces in some way. That's not our case. Because in a few years, let's say down here, we changed from 98% presence to 1.5%, 2%. And these people didn't leave because they were listening to the radio. So it's a little bit problematic now how to put things together, is to respect what is civilised and also internationally regulated, and all of this spills into some reality that is very weak. It is very weak and has become so weak that for decades no one has actually been involved — except volunteering and what could have been created — with the quality of the personnel. The solutions contained in this proposal make it possible to use the law wisely to ensure that the quality of the learning language in these institutions and for these national communities leads over time to at least some decent level of civilisation. But those who are now employed in these institutions — and many of them have done all they could in their own lives to really master the language of learning as it should be — do not change them. Article 1 states in the transitional and final provisions of this text that these people have mastered the language of learning, as they have probably proved so far. The problem is how to secure these things for the future. Nothing is resolved on the shoulders of those who are now in school, but the concern for the quality of teaching in the languages of the national communities for the future, what should exist from the beginning. Because this, let's say that the special statute says that all teachers or what they are now, the professional staff must master the mother tongue of the students, is based on the percentage of the situation I spoke about earlier. Those standards relate to the situation where there is a majority at local level. But this has been accepted, both sides have accepted this, so that the civil administration has also returned to former zone B or Italy to former zone A of the Free Market Territory. These are international agreements, and this is Article 8 of the Pacta Sunt servanda, right? Or is "trap one veranda", outside, so, with a hanging net? It works for everyone. And these things need to be realized. We can't say that we have a special statute level, and then we can't make any of this happen, but we can tell the world that we have these standards. But nothing or even the opposite is being done! Here we have to focus a little bit on what I would say, this mystery, which is actually what, at least some, we can see that it exists. I would just like to thank the Ministry team once again, because this team, although — you know, the initiator of all this was not exactly the Hungarian self-government community in this mandate, but some other initiators were many years ago, even with one minister who was a member of a coalition that ruled from 2004 to 2008, and who understood this matter, but then was unable to open the matter. In fact, there are extensions to taking care of the staff already in the existing law. The problem is that our schoolchildren are so used to not being active and swallowing up everything that's going on around them, and then finding themselves in situations like this, that they never demanded that this already existing article 23 be implemented. Where it is the commitment of the State to educate teachers in the language of the national community, because they then teach either in bilingual or in a language school which is also intended to preserve the language and education of minorities in their language. So they never had that courage. Why they didn't have it, but again, it's a matter of doctoral dissertation, why they were used to having no opinions and initiatives and at all. I hope, or I am sure, that this law will be adopted today because we are all aware that it would be a time to do something about it. Once again, thank you for your outstanding cooperation and, above all, for the high expertise of the Ministry team, which has embarked on these problems and such sensitive things in an extremely competent manner. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u118	The text is by Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u119	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Let me continue where my colleague Roberto ended up. In fact, we must thank you for this professional approach, but I also thank you for today's views of the parliamentary groups, because they have indeed tried, in a broader context, to shed light on the need to amend this law. I believe that the debates or positions have gone in the same direction as Roberto has in the end stressed that the law will be adopted today. Let me just point out a few more things. For the first time, as we are finally discussing the amendment, this amendment, which has been tabled, is only because we have adopted a text, particularly stylistically, at the session of the Commission for the National Community, which we have already said will be upgraded before the plenary session itself. In fact, this amendment does nothing but corrects the text somewhere and uses those terms that actually apply under the ZOFVI and under other rules. Just one sentence about the bilingual education model. This model is not the fruit of the Hungarian national community's desire, contrary to what Roberto stressed, which was prejudged by the international treaty, that is, the London Memorandum and later remained lower acts. For us, the Hungarian community, this did not prejudge anything, so I will point out that the CK decree introduced a bilingual model in 1958 and then implemented 1959. But so now, in the 1960s, this model has settled down, and we must admit that at this point the Hungarian national community is not fully prepared for any other model, because we simply have no resources and potential for it, and I do not want to deepen now. So we must strive for this model to be upgraded and implemented as closely as possible in accordance with the law. Knowledge of language. Here, too, there have been some inaccuracies or mere circumstantial accuracy, we must point out that this bill does not refer to the national community in any of its sentences as to the population that enjoys the advantage. The former law, which is now the law in force, has also mentioned some “favoration” of members of the national communities, which now explicitly puts this law on the level of language knowledge. Anyone who is competent in language can be employed in these institutions. As far as consensus is concerned, so far the national community has had an agreement, Article 24 of the current law clearly provides for agreement in the law and elsewhere, so that there is no new consensus. I must point out that this consensus does not apply to concrete employment in our education systems, but is only applicable to regulations where some content is normally negotiated. We must also point out that, at the time of drafting this proposal, the rules have already been drawn up. All these rules have practically drawn up bilingual educational institutions, not the national community, not the Member or anyone else, but the explicitly implementing institutions. In short, I'm just asking all of us to try to approach in spirit here, as has been presented so far. I believe that this is not about any rise in the level, as I have already pointed out in the position, but rather from the point of view of the Hungarian community, if we are very sincere, to slightly reduce this level, or else I will say, to a number of possibilities to avoid provisions where we mention so many alternatives, that practically without the Minister after three years and after the subsequent approval of the minister still not qualified for this model, then we really have to ask ourselves whether any such provision makes sense. [[…]] Finally, let me conclude by thinking that cohabitation is a very precious thing, and this cohabitation is very difficult to establish. I believe that despite all the problems, despite all our different visions and opinions in Pomour, a level of coexistence has actually been established. This law is certainly without prejudice to the loosening of this co-existence, and so I ask all of us to try, above all, to help implement the provisions now adopted or in a few hours' time, and in particular to care for all together, so that the Hungarian community can develop its culture and language, as well as that the majority people have some added value from this. In fact, as others have already pointed out, the presence of the national community is the wealth of that area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u120	Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u121	Mr President, thank you for saying so. I would like to refer to the position of our Group of Members and I would also like to express my opinion within the framework of, above all, the amendment due to the unrest that has taken place in the area of Prekmurje, particularly in Lendava. Is the bilingual system sustainable or not? The very word sustainability in this subject is a hypersensitive word and can also be very significant, but this is certainly a matter of broader debate, which must be qualitative, correct and, above all, objective and based on constitutional and international commitments, which must be respected because they are such as they are, for a reason. This means that any debate, at least this debate, which touches on the bilingual system itself or on the adoption of the novel, at both local and national level, must certainly avoid any discourse that would limit or interfere with the discourse of nationalism. It seems to me that such discussions are certainly some kind of lactus test of the maturity of our society. Of course, I realize that history is a very complex thing, especially because it is often perceived or justified through some emotional moment. Hence, it is particularly bad when the historical memory is lost, and so is when a historical memory wants to be used or distorted for daily political purposes. Especially when the context from the outside wants to dictate such a discourse in politics, perhaps by the majority or by the minority. In the light of this, we agreed on the Committee or there was a consensus on the amendment to Article 12, which was also acceptable to the representative of the national communities, while at the same time addressing the concerns that we were able to hear in the debate in the State Council. The amendments tabled, as my predecessors have already said, are only more substantively defined by the powers of the State, but certainly, as it is said, does not depart from the consensus adopted by the committee itself, so we will also support this amendment in the SMC Group. I'd like to say something for the end. Personally, I think he's holding that river, that you know more, that you're more valid, and that knowledge certainly is rich. I can also agree that it is not necessary for this to be known in the current account every time, but I certainly believe in the richness of the spirit. And when I look at my child — multilingualism is riches. You can trust me on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u122	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end the 18th agenda item and the 38th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 2 p.m. and 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u123	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 11, 14, 16, 17, 18 and 1 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. Procedurally, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u124	Thank you very much. The President, given that the Minister was sick yesterday, has come to the National Assembly today, and we have just this item on the agenda, number one, so Members' questions are true, I suggest you make an exception and allow you to give the floor to the Minister to answer my question after four months. I know you're going to say, "The Rules of Procedure, that, that," but let him. I don't think the Members will mind if you do this exception because he's not here because he's hiding. But now he has come to answer this question with regard to the questions sent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u125	You know exactly what my answer will be, which is why I won't even give it. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Roads in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 12. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 25. The amendment of the Left Group to Article 25 is substantively linked to the amendment for a new 41.a. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment for the new 41.a. becomes irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, chairman. I will repeat what I said in the debate and in the position. The Sustainable Growth Strategy of Slovenian Tourism states, is a bearer phrase, quote: “Slovenia will become a green, active and healthy destination for five-star experiences.” This law opens an article that allows us to talk seriously about advertising pollution. All of the serious tourist destinations that want to go through such tourism as this text I read have, decades ago, severely limited advertising on some jumbo posters, light posters, digital posters of advertising bodies. In the debate, I mentioned a number of these countries, even in the country of the most popular Slovenian son-in-law, the American President, there are quite a few federal states that have already – let's say, started with this in 1968, one year before I was born. In short, we're kind of following our neighbor here and we're proposing a 100-metre limit on the edge of the road. If you are serious about this strategy, which could also be discussed, I expect at least the entire coalition to support this proposal. Because in fact, in some classical forms of pollution, such as soil pollution, Zincarna Celje, which we will discuss on Friday, which is air pollution, which I have been spending the entire mandate, which is water pollution, there is a whole other set of pollutions, noise, smell, light pollution One of these types of pollution is pollution with excessive advertising propaganda that occupys an area that changes cultural landscape. [[…]] It is no coincidence that the French went very far as the first tourist destination in Europe. They even allow local communities to be even stricter than national legislation. For example, one of the former places where we had winter Olympics, Grenoble, made this very limited in 2015, because it is only allowed to advertise smaller formats for some local, regional issues. The French even have in law that cities with fewer than 10,000 inhabitants do not have light or digital advertising. If you are serious about tourism, which everyone so much likes to talk about in general, it's a nice lactose paper to test the matter, and I hope you will all support it. We will, of course, vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u127	We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 49. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the Left Group to Article 25 has not been adopted, the amendment of the same motion for a new 41.a Article has become irrelevant. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the supplementary proposal of the law has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. Unfortunately, Slovenian politics still suffers from a duality epidemic. On the one hand, it is pecking about some common places, but in practice it is not thought – I hope that this will change considerably with the next reference. We have already predicted that if our amendments are not accepted – I have explained the point – we will abstain from voting. Here are some good technical solutions brought by this law, but if the law is already opening, of course you should think beyond. And although we are mostly beaten, what is this Levi and economy up, down, most of us have not fallen into politics for 40 years and unfortunately only think in this society and country of responsible economy, not in the way of some economy minister who is now on a half-tour visit down under 12 days, or a minister who has a strike tomorrow, is on the Olympic Games as if she is competing. In no serious country can a minister or a minister spend 14 days abroad on a business trip. I had to say that. And, of course, there can be no Minister for Economic Development and Technology who comes from tourism and says, "Ah, the low wages in tourism are because the mularia that would not have been accepted in tourism schools are going to the tourist schools." And say at the same time: “Yes, but we will complement the manna of the workers with the introduction of the workers...” You know, tourism, which is enshrined in the strategy, can't mess with a minister who's gonna fuck with people who have 400 euros in wages. We'll be held back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u129	We vote, if you have not noticed, on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Roads. Just in case. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 4. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude the 11th item of the agenda. We continue with the 14th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 12. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 29. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 7 votes against 45. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 65. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 57. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 57.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded by deciding on the amendments and second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the supplementary proposal of the law has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 5. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 14 of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance under the ordinary procedure We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 12. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 20. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 38. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 70. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 45. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of 10 Members and Members with first signed by Dr. Clearly Murgel for a new 70a. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Dr. Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u130	Thank you very much. At the meeting of the Justice Committee, we adopted an amendment to the amendment to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, which gave us the power to decide on complaints in cases issued on the basis of a authentic instrument to all higher courts in Slovenia, i.e. to four higher courts and not only to a higher court in Ljubljana. We have before us a decision on an amendment, which is only an implementing amendment allowing a transitional period of one month to adapt the work in the courts to this already adopted amendment. That is why we will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u131	We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 38 votes in favour and 7 votes in favour. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since in the second reading amendments were adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill and the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present and 61 votes against 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to the new 70.a. Article of the amended bill. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 58 for them and 1 for them. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude the 16th item of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present and 46 votes against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been passed.I conclude the 17th item of the agenda. We continue with the 18th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special Rights of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities in the Field of Education and Education in the framework of the Regular Procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 12. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of Article 12 of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities' Parliamentary Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Italian and Hungarian national groups, Dr László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In the case of this amendment, it is a matter of improving the text, which was adopted by consensus at a meeting of the Commission for National Communities. When we set the criteria for knowledge of Slovenian and Hungarian, we looked for those groups where knowledge of Hungarian at a certain level is clearly necessary, but because it is not clear that the language context itself in that ad hoc solution was not best directed, we agreed already there to upgrade the text by introducing an amendment to the plenary session. Now, in this case, that's exactly what we're doing. So this is not about the content that has been substantially modified, just about the stylistic correction of the already mentioned consensually accepted amendment on the home working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u133	We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 48 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation suggested that the State Assembly, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 55 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that in the second reading, the National Assembly adopted the amendment to Article 12 of the amended bill. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Before voting, I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 141 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a law concerning the exercise in the Constitution of certain rights and the situation of only national communities shall be adopted by consensus of Members of the national communities. Consent shall be deemed to have been given if members of the national communities voted in favour of the law. I therefore ask Ambassador Robert Battelli and Dr Lászl Göncz whether they agree with that bill, i.e. whether they will vote in favour of the law. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u134	I'll vote for the law, President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u135	I'll support the law, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u136	Thank you. I note that both Members agree with the bill. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. 50 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the 18th item of the agenda. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the draft decisions of the Member and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers dated 12. 2. 2018, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr. Mir Cerar, to the question by Dr. Vinko Gorenak on government governance until the elections at the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 40. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of Mr Mika Kordiš, on the abolition of supplementary health insurance. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 42. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of mags. Matthew Tonin regarding the readiness of the Republic of Slovenia for a possible future economic crisis. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 42. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I put to the vote the following decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance mag. Mr Mateje Vraničar Erman on the question of Luka Mesca on the agreement on the annual capital investment management plan SDH for 2018. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 43. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I put to the vote the following decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesne Györkös Žnidar on the question of the question of Luke Mesca concerning cutting wire at the border with Croatia. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 49. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I put to the vote the following decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance mag. Matthew Vraničar Erman on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 48. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I put to the vote the following decision: At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of Culture Minister Anton Persak to Violet Tomić's question on the withdrawal of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 43. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I put to the vote the following decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of the Environment and Space, Irene Majcen, to the parliamentary question, Mr Mahnič, concerning unreasonable bureaucratic obstacles to the construction of small hydropower plants. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 39. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I put to the vote the following decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Health of Milojka Kolar Celarc to Daniel Krivac's question on helicopter transport for emergency medical care. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 42. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I put to the vote the following decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Interior. Vesne Györkös Žnidar on the question of the question of the message. Branka Grims regarding the protection of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia at the border with the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Italy. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 47. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I put to the vote the following decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anya Kopač Dark, to the question of Mr Miha Kordiš on the non-payment of compensation for holidays in the homes of older citizens. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 38. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I put to the vote the following decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. The de facto Jew to Violeta Tomić's question regarding the labelling of the origin of raw materials on pre-packaged foods. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 36. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda and interrupt the 38th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
