ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin the 60th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Tanja Zink, Dr. Jasna Murgel, Mrs. Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc, Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer from 13 till 20:00, Mr. Marjan Dolinšek, Mr. Roberto Battelli, Dr. László Göncz, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, Mr. Franz Laj, Mr. Franz Jurša until 12 noon, Mr. Franz Breznik, Mr. Ivan Prelog until 13:00, Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec until 11:00, Miha Kordiši, and from 16:00 I will also be away. I invited the representative of the Council of State to the 24th item of the agenda, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the representative of the Council to the 25th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 60th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Wednesday 11 April 2018 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 60th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving to 20. At the end of the day, this is a second defence proposal for a safety law in rail transport, within the framework of a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, mag. I'm putting pressure on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u2	Thank you, President. Dear Members and Members. We have prepared a proposal for a new Railway Safety Act. The main purpose of the adoption of the new law is the transposition of the technical part of the fourth railway package containing the new Railway Safety Directives, the Railway Interoperability Directive in the European Union and the Regulation of the European Union Railway Agency. The draft law fully lays down the conditions for ensuring safe and orderly rail transport, the responsibility and competence of all participants in ensuring the safety and interoperability of rail transport. A key novelty of the proposal is the transition to a secure management system, which will reduce the number of regulations and guidelines under the law. Manager, this is Slovenian Railways - Infrastructure and all railway carriers will have to transfer the content to the working environment and internal regulations. The ability to operate safely will be previously checked by the safety authority, namely the Railway Agency. The proposal also provides for the development of common safety objectives and common safety methods, common principles in the operation, management and control of rail safety in the public rail infrastructure area in the Republic of Slovenia, as well as conditions for safe rail transport on industrial routes and other railway routes. The proposal sets out a new procedure for obtaining a single safety certificate for carriers and is authorised for means of transport. The draft law is without prejudice to the delimitation of the competence of key entities in the Slovenian rail system, except in the control part. Here we have delegated certain powers to the Railway Agency in such a way that the Agency’s authorised persons will have the same position as the inspectors. At the same time, there is also a proposal for a new Rail Transport Act, which needs to be addressed and adopted simultaneously, as we have transposed certain provisions from there into the proposal for a Railway Safety Act. In accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the third hearing be held at the same meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u3	The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u4	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Secretary, colleagues, colleagues. At its 75th emergency meeting on 11 April 2018, the Infrastructure, Environment and Space Committee considered the proposal of the Railway Safety Act submitted by the Government in the State Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. In addition, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mag. Klemen Pushesek explained that the main objective of the proposal is to transpose Directives 2016/797 and 2016/798 into the Slovenian legal order, the deadline for transposition is 16 June 2019. Due to large-scale changes, a special new law has been drawn up, a substantive upgrade to the now in force Law on Rail Safety, and in part the proposed law also transposes the provisions of the law on rail transport, which are more substantively subject to this law. In doing so, it is without prejudice to the delimitation of the competence of key stakeholders in the Slovenian rail system as defined in the Rail Transport Act, except in the part relating to inspection supervision, which is now fully carried out by the Infrastructure Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the EU directives, the security authority must exercise control over carriers and operators, which is the railway agency, which is also the subject of inspection supervision. In the light of this proposal, the law provides for the delimitation of the powers of inspection between the two authorities, ensuring that authorised persons of the security authority are given the same position, rights, obligations and powers as inspectors. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that most of the comments made by this service were taken into account by the amendments tabled and some additional clarifications were provided by the Ministry in respect of the other comments. The President of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development explained that the Commission supports the bill and has no comments on it. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, he voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with a team, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The main objective of the proposal for a railway safety law is to transpose the three directives into the Slovenian legal order: the Railway Safety Directive, the Railway Interoperability Directive in the European Union and the Certification Directive to drivers operating locomotives and trains on the Community rail network. The first two Directives are part of the so-called the technical pillar of the fourth railway package, the main objective of which is to reduce the costs of railway undertakings and new carriers by means of technical reform, to facilitate entry into the railway market and thus remove the remaining obstacles to the establishment of a single European rail area by fostering the competitiveness of rail transport, which is a condition for greater efficiency and quality of rail services. The most important solutions to the draft law relate to the development and implementation of rail safety, with the proposal of the law laying down safety requirements for the rail system, including the safe operation and management of rail transport, as well as the interaction and influence between railway operators, operators and other active railway actors, setting out the tasks of active railway operators, in particular operators and carriers, responsible for the safe operation of their railway system and the monitoring of risks. It shall lay down the conditions and procedure for obtaining a safety certificate for carriers and the safety authorisation for operators. It shall designate the tasks of the safety authority of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for rail transport, which shall, together with the infrastructure inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, supervise carriers and operators. It shall determine the tasks and responsibilities of the investigating authority, the railway accident investigation services and incidents at the Ministry of Infrastructure, which shall play a central role in the investigation process in the event of accidents and incidents, and shall investigate any serious accident, both mandatory and independently, and may also investigate incidents which may be serious accidents in certain circumstances with a view to improving railway safety and disaster prevention. The proposal also introduces more important solutions for rail system interoperability, which means the capacity of the railway system to provide safe and continuous rail transport, at the required level of track capacity utilisation. This ability ensures the compatibility of individual subsystems and is based on a complete set of legal, technical and operational conditions that must be met to meet essential requirements. To this end, the draft law regulates the technical specifications for interoperability adopted by the European Union and which constitute uniform technical rules at EU level. Obligation to use them and tolerance to use them in tax-specific cases where other relevant specifications may be used instead. Among the more important are solutions for persons performing security critical tasks. The draft law thus facilitates the mobility of drivers between the Member States of the European Union and between different carriers and simplifies the recognition of licences and harmonised supplementary certificates by all participants in the railway sector. The basic concern for ensuring competence lies with the employer, who is required to introduce continuous maintenance procedures for drivers in his safety management system. The driver must be trained, have valid driver’s license and valid certificate. The solutions proposed in the law are supported by the Public Agency for Rail Transport, the Agency for Communications Networks and Services, the Infrastructure Inspectorate and the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development in the State Council. We will also support the proposal for a law on rail safety in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u7	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to the representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the Proposal for a Law on Rail Safety. This is a technical law which regulates individual technical specifications. New regulation of relations between carriers and managers. It introduces adopted directives that have been adopted in the last period and to a large extent reduce the number of sub-legislative acts and other regulations. It also implements all the requirements necessary for interoperability in this field. Given that this is a purely technical law in the parliamentary group, we will not oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u9	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Secretary of State with his associates! We have before us a new Law on Rail Safety, which, as in most recent amendments to the law, introduces European directives on rail safety and rail interoperability into the Slovenian legal order. These are directives that form part of the so-called technical pillar of the fourth rail package. What surprises us in our Group is that the deadline for transposition of those Directives is only June next year, which means we are not even late for transposition of the Directive this time. The reason why the novelty has rushed is that this law must be enforced along with the amendment to the Rail Transport Act. All railway operators must be adequately prepared for a new regime. We are pleased that all key stakeholders have participated in the drafting of the law and that after one year of work they have reached a consensus, the result of which is this new law. The proposer informed us that the aim of this law is to remove the last obstacles to the establishment of a single European railway facility with a view to increasing competitiveness and increasing the volume of rail transport. In the Desus Group, we hope that the effects of the law will also be reflected in the quality of the provision of services not only in the field of freight transport but also in the provision of passenger transport. In recent months, there have been increasing criticisms and complaints from passengers, increasing train delays and in modern times, in fact, unheard of. Instead of driving time cuts, many routes have been extended to unreasonable lengths of time. In the Desus Group, we will still support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u12	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Proposal for a Law on Rail Safety and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rail Traffic Act before us. At this and future items of the agenda, they are primarily intended to transpose two European Directives relating to the removal of barriers, to establish a single European rail transport and, in particular, to define more precisely the tasks and roles of participants in the development and improvement of safety by identifying few individual participants. New regulation of national safety regulations and changes related to the new definition of rail system and rail subsystems related to interoperability. Given that both laws are consistent with all stakeholders have the support of the State Council and have followed Slovenia's obligations to ensure the harmonisation of its own legislation with the legislation or community framework, we will support the bill in the Social Democrats' Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u13	The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! Those of you who have been following this expiring mandate know that, unlike the second part of the political spectrum, Levica is very serious about thinking and working with solidarity infrastructure. Railways in that quality of public passenger transport are in societies and countries that think themselves a key backbone. Not what a famous columnist writes, even with a scientific doctorate, in the key medium of the Radical Slovenian Right Reporter, that railways are the 19th century. Of course, they are also the backbone of logistics, freight transport as such. Probably in the absence of housing policy, the lack of transport, or if you want mobility policies, a nice demonstration of how in a quarter of a century old policy did not think of some key social spatial infrastructure development issues. Just past the beam, trains are late because large constructions are on a certain part of our railway infrastructure. In doing so, all the serious studies and experiences of foreign countries, in particular, the United Kingdom, and not only Romania, if you want them, show that reckless privatisation of such infrastructure means more investments from the budget for a much worse service. We're actually going to vote against it. Why? As stated by the people of the department, the three directives restrict two laws more than the legal, so-called sub-laws up to the level of, of course, some regulations. I said somewhat like a regular user of the government in jest, this means that for now trains will still be driving from Styria to Ljubljana, because Eisenponers will have to go to the exams they will have to do. For example, one of the directives has a deadline for adoption on 16 June 2019, if you go to read it carefully, with the possibility of an extension for a year. In short, an area that belongs to some of the most regulated areas, which sweeps by, say, the plant protection is, is an area where it needs to be operated in the way of “festina Lente” - fast slowly. Of course, despite all the positive attitudes towards the professional stakeholders involved in these processes, the fourth package of European legislation for this area is more than justifiable scepticism to move too fast. In this case, more reflection and a little less haste would be needed. I can honestly say that this morning I spoke to quite a few people of Slovenian railways on the train. They said they didn't actually go through with it, but apparently that's, I don't know, a decision by the Ministry. In my personal opinion, and also in the opinion of the Left, it is quite wrong that it somehow hastens too quickly. Now, at the very debate we had on the committee, it really turned out that people are talking about these things quite a bit, which is in fact also due to the obsession of Slovenian automotive policy. And in the next two mandates, of course, we need a much more thorough reflection of the solidarity infrastructure, because housing policy is one of the most crucial. It is also crucial, for example, to answer the question of how much and what freight traffic we will have over Slovenia. Let's say, also with the question of why public passenger traffic on railways is often a common need, which ultimately comes from these, you know, investments that are huge, where they are then referred to as lazily, yes, and when this is done you will be from Maribor 15 minutes earlier in Ljubljana. We are in Ljubljana 15 minutes earlier only if we set a little tact differently without it. In short, a whole series of cases and indiscretions that will make us go against both laws in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u15	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place tomorrow, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting. 17. 4. 2018 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Rail Traffic Act within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, mag. I'm putting pressure on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u16	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. You have before you a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Rail Transport Act. The main purpose of the legislative amendments this time is to transpose the directive on the opening up of the internal passenger transport market and the management of railway infrastructure. That Directive is part of the political part of the fourth railway package. In the draft law, we have removed the remaining obstacles to the establishment of a single European railway area and free access to internal passenger transport. Like freight and international passenger and rail transport, the proposed law will liberalise domestic passenger transport. This means that carriers will be free to access the market. In doing so, I would like to point out that in Slovenia we will maintain the implementation of the mandatory economic service for the transport of passengers by rail, because we have signed a 15-year co-financing contract. In the proposal for a law, the Communications Agency is empowered to protect the performance of the public economic service in so far as there is a threat to this service. The draft law also brings in the Slovenian legal order additional protectors to protect the independence of the operator, that is, the SŽ Infrastructure, within the holding company. We have set up a financial operating limit under the supervision of the Communications Agency with new powers. In short, the most important solutions to the bill are: change in the definition of the operator, definition of additional safeguards to ensure the independence of the operator in holding, extension of the right of access in internal passenger transport, extension of the regulatory authority (this is the Communications Agency). In accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the third hearing be held at the same meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u17	The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. The Infrastructure, Environment and Space Committee shall be held at the 75th emergency meeting, on 11 November. 4. 2018, as a parent working body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Rail Transport Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. In the additional explanation of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure first explained that this is a law that is consistent with all stakeholders in Slovenian rail transport. The main objective is the appropriate, correct and timely transposition of Directive 2016/2370 as regards the opening of the internal passenger transport market and the management of rail infrastructure. This Directive is part of the fourth railway package and its main objective is to remove the remaining obstacles to the establishment of a single European rail area by promoting the competitiveness of rail transport. It further explained that the most important solutions to the law are the following: the definition of the operator is changing; additional safeguards are being identified to ensure the independence of the operator in a vertically integrated undertaking; the right of access in internal passenger transport is being extended; and the powers of the regulatory authority are being extended. The Ministry also explained that in order to implement the bill, together with the implementation of the proposal for a new Railway Safety Act, all authorities, organisations and companies in the railway system need a certain period of time, as they need to be properly prepared or adapted, and that the two proposals for a law need to be adopted during this mandate period. The deadline for implementing Directive 2016/2370 is, however, 25. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that this service had certain comments on the content of the law. It further explained that the amendments tabled by the coalition groups are those which make comments from their written opinion. The representative of the Council of State explained that the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development supported and had no comments. In the debate between Members and Members, among other things, I would like to point out that there is no need to rush into the adoption of the law, since railway infrastructure is one of the key solidarity infrastructures in modern society, although in Slovenia it is largely neglected due to current and past policies, especially in relation to road and highway infrastructure. The draft law is also intended to express clearly the desire of stakeholders to liberalise and privatise railway infrastructure. On the other hand, it was explained that we have to transpose the Directives in a timely and consistent manner into the Slovenian legal order. In a specific case, the Slovenian rail system will also be fully aligned with rail systems between us neighbouring Member States of the European Union. The Committee adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure and voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u19	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! It is a related law, both the previous proposal for a railway safety law and this law, and the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Rail Transport Act are largely linked. It is a transposition of directives, this time, as you have determined, in time. It is mainly about the transposition of the Directive on free access to the market and services of carriers. The Council of State, as has been said, supports even on the parental committee itself there was no major scepticism about this law and all amendments were supported. The law is also in line with all railway stakeholders and we will not oppose this law in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u21	The text is given by the Desus Group of Members, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present. We have yet another amendment to the law on railways, which is also intended to transpose the amendments to the European Directive. This novelty is about the transposition of the directive on the opening up of the internal market for rail transport services and the management of rail infrastructure, which must be transposed into our legal order by the end of this year. This Directive is also part of the fourth rail package whose main objective is to remove the remaining obstacles to the establishment of a single European rail area and free access to internal passenger traffic. This amendment is also the result of a one-year part of the working group involving all key stakeholders, including the public Railway Agency, the Agency for Communications Networks and Services, as well as the Infrastructure Inspectorate. All key stakeholders also point to the need to adapt their work in a timely manner to new legal solutions, and to avoid possible sanctions by the European Commission, the law should be adopted as soon as possible. Although the bill regulates the opening of the market for internal rail passenger transport, it violates the function of an independent operator within the framework of Holding by defining additional personnel and financial safeguards to ensure the independence of the infrastructure manager, i.e. Slovenian Railway - infrastructure, in a vertically integrated undertaking, i.e. in a group of Slovenian Railways which controls the operator and the carrier. The new law also entails the extension of the powers of the Agency for Communications Networks and Services, which is the regulatory authority. At the same time, in order to facilitate the implementation of the law, the content relating to the safety certificate, the security authority and the tasks of the security and investigation authority shall be transferred from this law to the new Railway Safety Act. Members and Members of the Desus Group will support the proposal for a new law on rail transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u23	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u24	Thank you, again, for your word, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State with a team, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The main objective of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the railway law is to transpose the amendment of the European Directive concerning the opening of the internal passenger transport market and the management of railway infrastructure into the Slovenian legal order. This Directive is part of the political part of the fourth railway package, the main objective of which I have already presented at the previous point. For reasons of legal certainty, this proposal for a law and a proposal for a law on railway safety, which we have dealt with in the previous 20th paragraph, must be considered as a whole, and in particular they must enter into force on the same date in order not to result from the different date of application of both laws to the legal void or double standardisation. The key solution introduced by the new law is the opening of the market for internal rail passenger transport and provides for the strengthening of the function of an independent operator within the holding company or the identification of additional personnel and financial protections to ensure the independence of the railway infrastructure manager. In addition, the powers of the regulatory authority, the Agency for Communications Networks and Services shall be extended by law with regard to the operation, planning, renewal and planned or unplanned maintenance of the railway infrastructure, the implementation of safeguards for its independence, the supervision of the financial transparency of the operation of the operator and the possibilities for the revision of the financial operations of other legal entities in a vertically connected undertaking, i.e. the Slovenian Railway Group. The solutions proposed in the law are supported by the Public Agency for Rail Transport, the Agency for Communications Networks and Services, the Infrastructure Inspectorate and the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development in the State Council. We will also support the proposal of the Rail Transport Act in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u25	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will be held tomorrow, in accordance with the timing of the State Assembly meeting. 17. 4. 2018 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on social inclusion of persons with disabilities, within the framework of a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u26	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Allow me to briefly present to you the position or report of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities on the proposal of the Law on the Social Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities. At its 71st emergency meeting this month, our committee addressed the proposal for a law on the social inclusion of persons with disabilities, which it submitted to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption by the Government. Representatives of the Government, i.e. the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, our Legislative and Legal Service, the State Council and a wide range of civil-social initiatives or organisations, participated in the work of the committee itself. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and made some comments on the individual articles which were followed up or evaluated by amendments to the law. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health, Disabled Persons, which, in one word, supported and unanimously supported the proposal of this Act. It was initially stated that the Act on the Social Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities to replace the Act, 35 years old Law on Social Protection of Mental and Physically Affected Persons, from the years 1983, and that this Act covers legislation in the field of disability protection with the aim of ensuring the independent life of persons with disabilities in the community, in addition to this cycle or in this group of laws, the Law on the use of the Slovenian Sign Language, ZINI, that is, the Law on the Exercise of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities and the Law on Personal Assistance. This Act on the Social Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities also extends the circle of disabled persons who receive rights under this Act. Representatives of the public concerned, i.e. a number of civil society initiatives, which have been involved in the drafting of the law itself, as well as in the Committee itself, have presented their views in the draft law. They supported the law, which is essential and they did not have any comments on it, but they expressed the hope that I would be adopted as soon as possible and I believe that this will be the case and that the law will be adopted tomorrow. The law in practice, because it means a lot to disabled organisations, introduces a new modern approach; institutionalisation will now enable people with disabilities to improve their quality of life; and Slovenia will lead their strong beliefs to the threshold of European development. In the debate that followed, all representatives of the parliamentary groups expressed support for the proposed law, since the amendment of this law regulates the status of the most difficult persons with disabilities. The proposal brings a number of good solutions, while the current Law on Social Protection of the mentally and physically affected, which is also by name inadequate, has been inconsistent with the Constitution since the 2007 Constitutional Court decision. The bill thus brings a lot of improvements, in addition to general rights it introduces special rights and extends the range of beneficiaries who receive the right in the law, namely persons with autistic disabilities, persons with moderate to severe brain injury or disability and deaf blind persons. The proposal allows persons with disabilities to switch to employment and, after termination of their employment, to be paid back for disability. If they receive their salary, however, they shall be compensated up to the net minimum wage. The novelty brought by the proposal of the law is support services, namely training for independent life, lifelong learning, living with support and services for older people with disabilities. It has also been pointed out that this is a vital law for its users. The law will help to raise society's awareness of the importance of involving people with disabilities in society. This alerted or raised the questionability of the financial structure of the law and should also be determined in the opinion of the panel’s discussers, including the financial consequences of the law and the scope of the services remains unknown. However, following the adoption of the law, it is necessary to start the pilot project immediately. The Committee further adopted amendments to Articles one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, nine and nineteen and twenty-three and a new twenty-six and twenty-six b). The Committee did not adopt the amendment of the SDS Group. In accordance with the business arrangements, we voted on all the articles of the bill together on the committee and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of our Rules of Procedure, the text of the amended Act, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared. However, the amended proposal for this law is an integral part of the report which I have briefly read to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u27	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, followed by Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Your Honor. And in short, on the position of the Desus Group on the proposal of the Law on the Social Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities, of course, it is clear in the first place that we support this law and will, without exception, unanimously support it. In our Constitution, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states that we are a social state and it is right that we are a social state. Indeed, our country is solving the problem of the survival of the unemployed and other target groups, in one way or another, helpless and vulnerable with various forms of social assistance, social measures. Its special place in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia also has a provision for the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. Disabled persons are provided with protection and training for work in accordance with the law. Not to be socially excluded, but to participate in society and be included as anyone else is the fundamental right of every citizen and, of course, of every disabled person. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today we have an important marriage before us, perhaps not so much in the sky as it concerns the media, but for the whole group more than 10,000 disabled people still have some importance for the disabled and their families, for their neighbors, for society as a whole. In our parliamentary group, we note that the proposal for the Law on the Social Integration of Persons with Disabilities is based on modern principles of equal, equal inclusion of persons with disabilities in society. It follows the international conventions, the application of our constitutional order and how much more important the proposed legal solutions are fully aligned with key stakeholders mainly with users and those who are either personally or professionally engaged in disability on a daily basis and every day. This law brings an extremely important and completely new approach to promoting the activation or employment of persons with disabilities, which allows for the transition from the status of staff with disabilities and vice versa. In accordance with the capacity of a disabled person without any special administrative, which is important and legal obstacles. It is beneficial for the disabled person and his family that those who are able to participate and contribute to their financial independence can do so. The inclusion of persons with disabilities in different jobs is also socially beneficial, as economic growth and social cohesion are very intertwined in modern society. The purpose of the new law, which replaces the old one, as I have already said in the report of the Committee, which has been shaping the fate of the most vulnerable for 35 years, is to provide full-year-olds who, due to their disability, cannot afford to provide social security alone and to participate in society, the right to compensation, the right to an allowance for aid and service and social inclusion services for participation and participation in society, with the circle of existing beneficiaries being substantially complemented by some groups that have been literally excluded from society until today or tomorrow, left to institutional protection and from an economic point of view, left to the mercy of the family or society. By providing a disability allowance, an allowance for assistance and service and social inclusion services, they are thus allowed to live in a community from now on and to decide their lives at all levels. Both this Act and the Personal Assistance Act, which we are improving in these days, are therefore an important but not the only step in this meeting of the Committee to ensure that the Slovenian society shows real responsibility for the treatment of persons with disabilities and disability. Unfortunately, those who are missing, and I regret to point out this point, in order to have a rounded normative overall provision of protection in terms of social and health care, as well as economic assistance for all who need immediate or other assistance, are, of course, the Long-Term Care Act, the unimaginable dream of this government and this call of the National Assembly. In our Group of Members, we believe that today and tomorrow I am sure the bill voted will make a significant contribution to raising the level of awareness of society in the importance of involving people with disabilities in society. I suppose I could still talk about the importance and usefulness of the adoption of this law, but that should be enough. To conclude only this, as already stated in the introduction, I believe that the Desus Group will also support the rest of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u29	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u30	Dear Mr. President! Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I am very pleased that this has finally been addressed, indeed, for a very long and difficult-to-see Proposal for a Law on the Social Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities, which will replace the Law on Social Protection of Mental and Physically Affected Persons. Let me apologize in this place immediately if I sound too enthusiastic to anyone, but I would like to point out that I am really glad that, at the conclusion of my work as a Member, I have been given the opportunity to witness this historic moment when, I am sure, this law is unanimously confirmed. We are talking about the most vulnerable group of people, this is about people with disabilities, who are greatly improved by this law for a fuller and better quality of life. Better late than never, it's a saying. Article 12 of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities entitled “Equality before the law” obliges States Parties to ensure that persons with disabilities are fully realized of all human rights and fundamental freedoms without any discrimination due to disability. The Convention therefore commits to appropriate measures that ensure the right of persons with disabilities to equal access to information, to freedom of movement, to choice of residence, to different services at home, to education and, of course, to work that is accessible to persons with disabilities. The State is therefore obliged to take measures to enable persons with disabilities to have access to the assistance they need in exercising legal capacity. The proposed law regulates the status and right of the most difficult disabled persons in the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, we welcome the expansion of the number of beneficiaries of disability status, so that, in addition to those with moderate, severe and severe mental impairments and the most difficult movemental disabilities, people with autistic disorders who have a severe form of inappropriate behaviour, deaf-blindness and persons with moderate to severe brain damage and impairment can be acquired. In this way, all persons with disabilities are entitled to a disability allowance and the right to an allowance for assistance and service. The adoption of this law will also give effect after more than ten years to the contents of the 2007 Constitutional Court decision, which ordered our country to bring the Social Protection Act of 1983 into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia within one year. Let me touch people with mental disorders here. According to researchers, these are among the most stigmatised persons, in particular in the field of work and employment, in institutions and in support of social inclusion services for independent living. In addition to State aid, many countries pay the highest attention to the employment of persons with disabilities because they are aware that employment offers the greatest opportunity for equal opportunities, namely property and earnings, financial independence and also greater social independence. The proposal for a law on the social inclusion of persons with disabilities also fulfils the objectives of the action programme for persons with disabilities 2014/21, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 9 January 2014, including by allowing persons with disabilities to move from the status of social rights user to the status of job seeker or employee and back and the right to provide adequate minimum income for persons with disabilities. The news is the peace of rights acquired under the Social Protection Act of mentally and physically affected persons, which means that, if a person is employed and for whatever reason, the employment relationship ceases, he again has the right to compensation for disability in full without major administrative obstacles. This is commendable, since disabled people want to be involved in the work process, they like to work, but therefore they must be given the right conditions. Where it is found that they are unable to work, they may return either to the institution or to their home and are entitled to compensation for disability and other rights. The adoption of the Social Inclusion Act is therefore the first concrete step in the transition from institutional care to community care, and from this point forward it will be necessary [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] at the level of the State and the level of the municipality a great deal of active work in preparing and launching effective networks of Community support services. It will certainly be necessary to prepare people with disabilities, empower them for the life of a community where they will not only live but also live. For quality of life and stay, it is certainly necessary to adopt long-term care of the law, which will be an upgrade to the standard achieved, not a complete decommissioning of the law. In our parliamentary group [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] We will, of course, unanimously support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u31	The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u32	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. The proposal that we are considering today enjoys broad support and rightly so. Finally, after more than 35 years of waiting for more living legislation, we will get the Disability Act, the social inclusion of persons with disabilities, which we consider to be good and will support in Levica. However, delaying this proposal with the approval of governments and resulting playing with the fates of people whose dignity and survival depend on the solutions proposed was totally unnecessary. According to the needs of the disabled and recognized rights, the 1983 archaic law not only condemns the disabled to living on the edge of society. The changes we are adopting today are finally increasing the income of the disabled and allow them to receive compensation even if they are working and the status can be maintained even after the period of work, which is crucial. If a person with disabilities receives a salary, for example for part-time work, he will nevertheless be compensated to the level of net minimum wage, which is not much but, given the current situation, represents significant progress. In addition, the situation can be improved if, as proposed in Levica, we increase the minimum wage. With the improvements brought by the law, disabled persons will be given more autonomy, even in a material sense, and will therefore be able to decide more equally where to stay, whose activities to participate and whether and to what extent to be involved in the work processes. But we can't fall asleep on laurels. In the field of work of persons with disabilities, it is far from right to give you a case highlighted by the Labour Counsellor on the Committee, persons with disabilities involved in social inclusion programmes under the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act do not receive an adequate payment for their work, persons working on average for more than 6 hours per week, and therefore receive a reward of between 5 and 15 % of the minimum wage of 40 and 120 euros. Work activities in these programmes include, for example, seasonal work in agriculture, housework, support at the stands, cleaning, handiwork and the like. The Minister assured us on the Committee that these persons were not in a working relationship and that they were therefore excused for other social transfers, which unfortunately we know does not even cover the cost of living naked, let alone allow for decent survival for the disabled. Furthermore, the Act also makes it clear that persons with disabilities who are not recipients of financial compensation or social assistance for the period of inclusion in these programmes are justified up to only 40% of the minimum wage, which means that they are sentenced to life. Although today’s marriage is good and will be supported, we must be aware that it does not solve all problems. More work and improvements will be needed in this regard in the next term. How much poverty we will tolerate in this society will also depend on how many members of the Left will sit in this Chamber in the autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u33	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, followed by Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, dear Members. In the New Slovenia Group, we welcome steps towards equal inclusion of persons with disabilities in society, as proposed by the Law on the Social Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities. The current Social Protection Act, which has been in force since 2007, has become obsolete and has been confirmed in violation of the Constitution. As a major change, the expansion of the circle of beneficiaries belonging to the status of disabled persons, in addition to those with moderate, severe and severe mental impairments and the most difficult movemental persons, will be possible under the new status of disabled persons under the law, persons with autistic disabilities who have a severe form of inappropriate behaviour that prevents them from living alone and obtaining means of survival, deaf blind persons and persons with moderate to severe brain damage or impairment. This is crucial, since currently young people with head injury are not dealt with in any law and will now be included in the support system. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the proposal that all disabled persons who receive the status of disabled persons by law are entitled to social protection services in accordance with the Social Protection Act and social inclusion services, the right to compensation for disability and the right to an allowance for assistance and services. We also welcome the possibility of implementing social inclusion services aimed at training for independent living, lifelong learning, supporting and maintaining the inclusion of older people with disabilities. In New Slovenia we support all programmes that enable people with disabilities to participate in society. An example of good practice is Lokal Second violin in old Ljubljana. Persons with disabilities who perform various jobs here are allowed to contact people, feel useful, and thus prove to themselves and society that they are an important group of people, even though they are more vulnerable groups. Such projects raise public awareness and undermine stereotypes of people with special needs. However, in the New Slovenia Group we would like to draw attention to discriminatory treatment of deaf people. So these are people with short vision and hearing impairment. According to the proposal of the law, these persons shall be recognised as disabled if they have a disturbance of up to 50 % of hearing loss and the first to including the fifth categories of blindness and blindness. According to the proposal of the Hand Association, consideration should be given to functional criteria other than medical criteria in the case of persons with disabilities who transmit to the deaf to recognise disability. The functional criterion shall be taken into account in the case of autistic disturbances and traffic-obstructed persons. It is discriminatory to require deaf people to meet the medical criteria mentioned above specifically for sight and hearing. It is necessary to assess their ability to integrate into society on the basis of a dual defect which causes a completely different state and needs in an individual than only if they possess one of the disorders. It could happen that a person who owns both disorders and does not achieve a medical criterion at the same time, because of a double disability, is totally unable to work, communicate and engage in a society deprived of disability status, and therefore the New Slovenia Group is not able to avoid the discriminatory practices mentioned above, the proposal that the bill be amended or supplemented accordingly and that we will also do so in the next term. This will ensure equal treatment for all persons who are entitled to disability status. In addition to this, many challenges remain in the protection of persons with disabilities, such as access to health services for persons with mental disabilities, to enable these persons to be active citizens and to provide system-wide funding for the social inclusion of persons with disabilities. We will support the proposal of the law in the Member State of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u35	The text is given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! Dignity, equality, fundamental rights and freedoms are principles and values that apply to all people also to persons with disabilities. Unfortunately, both the past and the present have shown us many times that people with disabilities are still faced with obstacles in many key areas, such as health, education, employment and social security. Therefore, I am particularly pleased that today we have before us a proposal for a law that expresses concern for people who are often prevented by various obstacles from their full and effective participation in society. We will, of course, support the law in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. The proposal for the Law on Social Inclusion for persons with disabilities will replace the Law on Social Protection for persons with mental and physical harm, which was adopted in the old days of 1983 and has served its purpose nicely. The proposed law also means the implementation of the 2007 Constitutional Court decision, which, as we can see, we have been waiting for more than ten years. The purpose of the law to be discussed today is to extend the beneficiaries of disability status and consequently to acquire certain rights, such as the right to compensation for disability in the amount of the sum of monetary social assistance and the protection allowance under the law governing social security benefits. In this regard, I particularly welcome the possibility of re-payment of compensation in the event of a transition to employment or upon termination. The bill also introduces so-called Lifelong Learning, Staying and Service Support Services for Older Persons with Disabilities. In this way, the law will make an important contribution not only to the higher quality of life of the disabled but also to raising the awareness of the whole society about the ability and contribution of people with disabilities to the community. I am pleased that the proposal for a law has received virtually unanimous support both at the home of the working body and in the public concerned. Such laws are not many, and when we get them on the parliamentary bench, they usually mean something good, and we are happy to support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u37	The text shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Erika Dekleva for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u38	Honourable Presidents, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. I believe that we are something that we share the joy of considering today such an important law for the disabled. The Law on the Social Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities replaces the 35-year-old Act on Social Protection of Mental and Physically Injured Persons. The very title of the current law shows that the regulation is outdated and is unsatisfactory in responding to the current challenges we face as a society. The needs of people with disabilities are changing, and we are also witnessing changes in diagnostics, development of practices and in the field of expertise. The main solutions envisaged by the law under consideration today are the aim of ensuring that people with disabilities are independent in the community. In particular, the proposed measures aim to reduce the dependency of this vulnerable social group on various forms of social assistance and to provide them with the opportunity to live alone in the community and actively integrate into society. The proposed law also fulfils the objectives set out in the action programme for persons with disabilities from 2014 to 2021. Slovenia also ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities decades ago. Given that in Slovenia, the indicative assessment of the proportion of people with disabilities ranges between 12 and 13% of the total population, it is clear that they represent an important social group and that the country must take such measures as to ensure their successful integration into society and enjoy a life of their own. Indeed, persons with disabilities are also a group that can contribute equally to the development of society, even though their capacities have not yet been fully developed due to some of the obstacles they face in life. The bill was supported by a number of non-governmental organisations, which expressed their support also at the time of consideration on the labour market, and the law also enjoys broader political support. Otherwise, the Community's training organisations with special needs have been apprehensive that the adoption of the Government's Law on the Social Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities due to the resignation of the President of the Government will hang in the air, but Members of the SMC are aware of the necessity of the adoption of this Act and this was also the reason why we signed the request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly with a view to the adoption of the law in this mandate. We are therefore looking forward to the adoption of the law in the SMC Group, and we believe that this will further contribute to the implementation of Article 14 of the Constitution of Slovenia, which, inter alia, explicitly stresses the right to equality of persons with disabilities before the law or that no one should be left behind for reasons of disability. We will support the proposal of the Modern Centre's Parliamentary Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u39	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, followed by Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u40	Respectable. The proposal for the Law on the Social Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So far, the Law on Social Protection of Mental and Physically Injured Persons has regulated this area and there has been an urgent need for change. Sadly, however, the law was not ready until the end or practically during the last month of this government’s mandate. As the main purpose of the proposal, the proposal states the regulation of the status and rights of the most deprived persons, extending the range of beneficiaries, in addition to those with moderate, severe and severe mental impairments and the most difficult movemental persons, following the new status of disabled persons, can also obtain persons with autistic disabilities who have a severe form of inappropriate behaviour, deaf blind persons and persons with moderate to severe brain injury or impairment. The main solutions to the draft law relate to the provision of the right to compensation for disability and the allowance for assistance and services, the enforcement of social inclusion and social inclusion services, the possibility of employment of full-year persons who cannot afford social security and social inclusion because of their disability. A proposal for a law shall specify the procedure for the exercise of those rights. It is true that the Government of Mira Cerar could propose this bill substantially earlier, but legal solutions are going in the right direction and we will support the proposal of the Law on the Social Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u41	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will be held tomorrow 17 April 2018 in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on local self-government within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration mag. Xenia Clampfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u42	Mr President, honourable Members, thank you for your floor. The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government introduces the following main solutions. Eliminates the non-constitutional nature of the representativeness of the community association, strengthens the role of the smaller parts of the municipalities by expanding the set of tasks that municipalities may delegate in sacred parts, simplifys the establishment of a community association as institutional forms of inter-agency cooperation to which municipalities may delegate the performance of tasks under their jurisdiction also parts of regulatory powers. It aligns the conditions for repealing the municipal general act with the conditions applicable to State referendums, regulates the participatory budget as a form of citizen participation, aligns the content of the law on municipal law with the Law on State Lawyery, extends the supervisory functions of the Supervisory Board, from the power to dispose of property on the conduct, including the acquisition, management and rental of property, thereby aligning the law also with the Real Property Act of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now propose that the National Assembly also carry out the third reading of the bill at this meeting of the National Assembly and the proposal for a law support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u43	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Baby Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u44	Thank you for saying so, President. The Secretary of State has a nice greeting, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament also a handful of you. At its 66th emergency meeting, on 6 April 2018, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Administration considered this relevant bill submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. Within the time limit, the amendments were tabled by the SMC, Desus and SD groups to Articles 5, 6, 9, and 11 and by the Levica Group to Articles 5 and 6. The representative of the proposal submitted an additional explanation to the section of the draft law itself. He said that it was primarily the abolition of the unconstitutional nature associated with the representativeness of the association of municipal municipalities, which was imposed by the Constitutional Court. Next. This is a strengthening of the role of the smaller parts of the municipalities, as the proposal allows for the transfer of virtually all tasks other than those for which they are intended to be carried out by the authorities of the municipalities. The bill introduces the possibility of giving support to a demanding referendum via e-government, which will provide an opportunity that already exists to obtain a legal basis. The draft law also regulates the participatory budget, not in detail, as it can be implemented in different ways in practice. It is also a matter of coordination with the Law on State Attorneys and with the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities in the Work when it comes to extending the supervisory function of the Supervisory Board itself. In its presentation of the written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the comments to each article were taken into account in the following individual provisions. The representative of the Council of State said that the State Council supported the proposal for a law, in particular supporting and welcoming the possibility of giving greater powers to the members of the municipalities, which would help to improve the development of each congregation. The representative of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia expressed support for the proposal for a law. I also believe that some municipalities have expressed the need to regulate the systematisation of the post of Head of the Municipal or Inter-Ministerial Lawyer and to include in the catalogue of posts and titles in the public sector. The representative of the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia expressed support for the proposed amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government and expressed satisfaction that this bill was aligned with all three representative associations of municipalities. In the debate, the MP of the Left Group expressed the view that a reform of local self-government was urgently needed. They should also have an independent Ministry of Local Self-Government. He mentioned that there should be only one representative association of congregations. Members of the coalition felt that it was entirely within the jurisdiction of the congregations, in what way and in which associations would be organised, as it also follows from the European Charter of Local Self-Government. They also considered that the number of ministries does not play a role in this or how local self-government will be developed. With regard to the participatory budget, several municipalities have presented their experiences in piloting and its advantages and weaknesses. The Committee then adopted amendments to the SMC and SD groups and did not accept the amendments of the Left Group. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u45	Following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u46	Thank you so much for the president's words. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Let me just say in the introduction that the Social Democrats will support the Proposal for a New Law on Local Self-Government. The proposed amendment removes unconstitutionality as to the possibility of acquiring the characteristics of the representativeness of the association. This solution is linked to the recognition of the representativeness of the Association of Municipal municipalities and placed it in the same position with the association of municipalities of Slovenia and the Community of Slovene municipalities. The amendments also relate to compliance with other laws adopted: the Law on State Defence, the Law on Real Estate of the State and Local Communities, the Law on General Administrative Procedure. The proposal introduces the possibility of giving support to the request for a referendum via eGovernment. It also provides a legal possibility to regulate a participatory budget, but this is not exactly regulated, as the Government states in practice that this method of participation of residents in the preparation of the budget is carried out in different ways. The individual solutions concern the simplification of the decision-making of the Head of the Interstate Office. The amendment also applies to a lawyer who will no longer be a lawyer. To extend the supervisory function of the Supervisory Board and to strengthen the smaller parts of the municipalities by expanding the set of tasks. The novel is needed, but not revolutionary. However, local self-government represents the greatest possibility of direct participation of people in public affairs, but the most centralised country in the European Union remains because of its fragmentation into municipalities and an unfulfilled commitment to the establishment of regions. Differences in the development of Slovenian regions indicate the urgency after the opening of the debate on how to approach regionalisation of development. Social Democrats are aware that it will be difficult to reach consensus between different stakeholders, but this does not keep us thinking about how to achieve urban, local and regional development. How to modernise local self-government and with the greater role of municipalities to contribute to greater economic development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u47	The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! In this mandate, we have had on our hands the changes of all with local self-government important laws. Unfortunately, none of them have brought positive changes, but they are urgently needed. First, with the so-called municipal ZUJF, the Government reached into 11 regional regulations and, inter alia, unlawfully abolished part of the non-profit leases. In the light of the savings, she wanted to abolish even the elections in the upper part of the congregation, but at least in this part she was not successful. The government coalition has also adopted amendments to the Law on Community Financing, rather than taking into account the warnings of the Court of Auditors, we have received some uncoordinated proposal with a set of not overthinking transitional provisions, as well as tightening the conditions for joint municipal administrations. All of the above shows very clearly that the local self-government was not among the priorities of this government in retreat and this coalition in departure. In Levica, we have repeatedly warned that the Minister, by reforming local self-government, is either unwilling or unable to engage. We had more than a great chance to make it. Although four years are not enough for a comprehensive reform of local self-government, they should certainly lay its foundations, but unfortunately this has not happened. Today we have before us changes to the law on local self-government. This proposal is also, frankly, bad. On the one hand, the Minister wants to bring the municipal authorities closer to the people by introducing a participatory budget and, on the other hand, by the same law, by tightening the conditions for a referendum at local level, the aim of the Ministry is therefore the same as the objective of a comprehensive part of the mayors, to give the impression that they are advocating higher democratic standards, to promote the participation of citizens and citizens in the conduct of public affairs, but only seemingly so that they can participate in the proceedings but not decide. Amendments to the law reinforce the possibility of holding referendums, and the amendment is based literally on a lie. This is due to the 2013 amendment of the Constitution. The amendment to the Constitution, which limited the possibility of implementing a legislative referendum at national level, has no bearing on local referendums. This isn't about any coordination. It is simply a conscious decision of this government and coalition to go to restrict the possibility of citizens and citizens participating in decisions of municipal authorities that have a direct impact on their environment and life. The following article is intended to see to it that the functioning of the municipality is democratised by the introduction of a participatory budget, but this is also a seemingly higher democratic standard. For the law does not stipulate anything other than that municipalities may include citizens and citizens in the preparation of budgets. They can turn it on, end of quote. Therefore, only if this is the decision of the municipality itself and in this case the decisions of citizens and citizens are not binding, nor is the prescribed way in which the participatory budget is implemented. So what is the purchase of the proposed solutions in practice? The introduction of a new institute allows citizens and citizens to participate, but not to make decisions. At an already existing institute, which actually allows citizens and citizens to decide on the most important issues, the chances of doing so are even shrinking radically. The only logical conclusion is that both current and past political power holders do not want a powerful people, even less so, who have an impact on your decisions. You see the referendum as speculation, sentences as unjustifiable blackmail, and you could still continue. Finally, the coalition parties, which both declare themselves democratic, also prevented the establishment of an institution to call off the mayors. We have tabled amendments, or amendments, in Levica, which are correcting the law in a way that actually means raising democratic standards, and our support for the amendments will, of course, also depend on our support for the law. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u49	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Respected, local self-government is a constitutional institution and represents the closest and direct contact with its inhabitants. In accordance with the Constitution and the European Charter of Local Self-Government, citizens exercise it through the elections of municipal councils, which, as representative bodies, carry out tasks under municipal jurisdiction, and with the election of mayors who hold executive functions in the municipality. However, they can make direct decisions at assemblies of citizens, referendums and through a human initiative. Today, we can say with certainty that, above all, smaller municipalities have a number of advantages and are the basic basis for the operation of the whole country. Both the municipalities and the state are set up to make it easier for citizens to exercise their interests, so it is essential that they have the interest of mutual cooperation. If this is the case, more funds should be made available to the congregations. As this is not the case, there is currently around € 130 million missing at community level for the performance of their mandatory tasks, and the situation is also poor for development funds that the municipalities have almost no longer. On the other hand, it is easy for the State to allocate more resources to the capital city of Ljubljana, because it is reportedly carrying out the specific tasks of the capital city. That's unacceptable. The municipalities, with the exception of the dedicated ones, do not have access to cohesion funds. In Novi Slovenija we note that the state of the municipality is exhausting by imposing more and more tasks on them and even reducing funding for these tasks. If the State transfers the management of the individual additional tasks to the municipalities, it must also provide them with financial resources. It's a basic rule. At this point, the result would be better if the state only met and only fulfilled its legal obligations. This means fixing the average to pre-crisis level. Unfortunately, however, we find that the municipalities only receive new tasks and that the financial resources for their implementation are not. Here we are also asking in New Slovenia how it is to respect the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which has also been ratified by this National Assembly. Inconsistent regional development, I stress the non-conformity of regional development, is only deepening. Although today’s amendment does not bring great added value and leaves the door open on some issues, it is commendable that it is supported for a long time by all representative associations of the congregations. In Novi Slovenije we are convinced that municipalities should also have a better interlocutor. In doing so, we are thinking of the necessity of establishing an independent ministry for local self-government. The fact that the municipalities are often the most successful in drawing on European funds, as was the case in the previous financial perspective, should strengthen their role. With this novel, the smaller parts of the congregations with new powers that the congregations can pass on to them will become more effective. We also welcome the possibility of introducing a partial budget where the municipality will be able to cooperate with its proposals on specific issues in Novi Slovenije. These are examples of good practices that already exist in some Slovene municipalities. Therefore, if we want to maintain local self-government as a constitutional institution that represents the closest and direct contact with its inhabitants, then we must ensure that they are further developed and upgraded. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a new law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u51	The text is addressed to Mr Jani Möderndorfer, Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u52	In fact, there is a law before us with which we will not actually do anything revolutionary, but of course we will bring some freshness and, above all, what the Constitutional Court requires us to do, and in fact, when we passed the law on local self-government, where we regulated the mayor's recall in this National Assembly, we have already decided, we have also settled this issue, I am talking about representativeness, of course we have allowed the possibility primarily by those who initially supported this law, and then, of course, we have supported the veto by their denial of what they have already said and decided. I'm talking mostly about SD and Desus. So today we have yet again a decision on this matter before us, in this law that regulates this issue. The Committee, of course, had the most discussions on only two topics, we are talking about a participatory budget and, of course, about the so-called ‘participating budget’. to regulate the question of the referendum or, in fact, to allow such arrangements to make it significantly easier for them to organise a referendum at local level than at national level. Some say that these are worse standards than the law actually does, which of course is true, but it is true that the Constitution is very clear as to this issue, and if this is the national level, I see no reason why this would not also apply to the local level. More importantly, it is not a restriction, but primarily a responsibility that must be borne by the local community, particularly those who wish to initiate referendums. However, from the point of view of perception of the problem, if this is of course a problem, of course, it is also a question of how we will understand the changing of this matter. That is why, of course, we support this law in the SMC and, last but not least, we will not support the amendments proposed on this subject, but of course we will be more involved in the debate itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u53	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u54	Yeah, good-bye. Speaking of local communities, we're talking about a level of power that's practically closest to people. Its primary task is to represent the interests of the local population. Their role in ensuring and establishing conditions that enable quality social life and the well-being of the population is increasingly important due to the links with the lives of citizens and citizens and the increasing turn of the municipalities. The country should be more aware of this and give more attention and assistance to the development of the congregations, especially that there are no differences between the congregations and that they are not shared in the first and second classes. Every citizen, whether coming from Škocjan, Žužemberka, Apache or Ljubljana, deserves to live in an environment where he can develop his potentials and manage a decent living environment. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of the importance of local self-government, so we pay great attention to the development and role of municipalities, we are aware that municipalities play an important role in the progress of society as a whole and that their development is necessary and the country should follow. Today we are considering a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Law on Local Self-Government, including the aim of the law to abolish unconstitutionality on the possibility of acquiring properties, the representativeness of associations established by the Constitutional Court in 2016. So far, two of the three associations have had this representation, in addition to the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the municipalities of Slovenia. The amendments to this Act also seek to harmonise the content with the law on State defence, including the way in which the Head of Interstate Defence is designated and the supervisory functions of the Supervisory Board are expanded. Amendments to the law are also intended to facilitate procedures for establishing an institutional form of inter-ethnic cooperation and to encourage municipalities to transfer their duties to a relationship that becomes a legal person of public law. Its task may also be delegated by the congregations to the performance of certain tasks under their jurisdiction. The proposed law would also allow for the strengthening of the role of the smaller parts of the congregation by expanding the set of tasks delegated by the congregations in sacred parts. The form of the participatory budget shall also be regulated as a form of public participation and support for the request for a referendum also through the E-Government, when a measure of support is given by way of personal signature. But there is also a big problem and certainly more in the debate. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose the changes to the law, but we resent the collapse of the SMC, SD and Desus Government, which has favoured only individual municipalities, which are already registering a higher level of development, but who did not want to see and hear those municipalities that are behind in development and would urgently need the assistance of the state. It is the mandate of missed opportunities, including in the area of comprehensive development of local self-government. The Slovenian Democratic Party will change this, because every congregation and every citizen is important to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u55	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, followed by Mr Benedict Kopmajer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u56	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, everyone's welcome. Today we are considering a bill that brings quite some news, but it would be difficult to talk about fundamental changes in the field of local self-government. Local self-government in Slovenia has been operating practically since January 1995, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia has introduced local self-government as a legal system institution and has defined it as one of its fundamental democratic principles, although there have been many changes to date, particularly in the legislative field, but many areas remain unregulated, where the need for the establishment of landscapes, as already referred to in Article 143 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, could be discussed for a long time, but it is reasonable to leave this debate for the future mandate of the National Assembly. However, we probably all agree that regionalisation or the establishment of landscapes is needed mainly because of the faster resolution of internal development problems and the application of the principle of subsidiarity or the provision of a basis for faster and more coherent development of the whole of Slovenia. The reform of local self-government, of course, is not a single act, it is a complex and dynamic process, which at least is how we want to continue in the Desus Group in the future. Let me focus on the proposal of the law that we have before us today, removes the unsustainability of the possibility of obtaining the characteristics of the representativeness of the community association, which includes the municipalities, removes certain administrative obstacles, strengthens the role of the larger parts of the municipalities, and allows the municipalities to decide on their own tasks and to what extent they will leave them in the performance of the larger works. However, the main debates on the home work body were on the establishment of the participatory budget, which we have already discussed in this mandate. More specifically, last October. The Desus Group did not support the proposal of Mr Chuš at the time, because we felt that the changes needed to be made in a thorough and thoughtful manner, that is to say, to find a solution which would also regulate the appropriate way of implementing the participatory budget. At that time, we have the promised changes by the competent ministry on the table today. In the Desus Group, we support the proposed amendment of the law by laying down a participatory budget on the basis of which citizens can also participate in the preparation of the municipal budget proposal with proposals for projects financed from the municipal budget. In some municipalities this has already been successfully implemented, while in many cases the local population has already decided on projects at the assembly itself. Such a proposal is supported both in the State Council and in the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia. In view of the above, in the Desus Group we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u57	We have completed the presentation of the views of the Group. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. I admit that I am a little tired, this mandate is always to say how urgent it would be to go into reforming local self-government, because I am mostly talking to myself. Now mention the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which is a document that has less than 20 members, by the way, and then immediately begin to speak, the state, versus, the municipality, but that you do not really understand the basics of what local self-government should be. Both the national level and the province, the regions, the countries that we do not yet have, as well as the municipalities, are places for policy implementation. But politics is a public use of the mind, something I haven't seen very often in these four years. Now, in particular, the coalition part is somehow spinning today nothing revolutionary, although I come from the Left, the area of territorial regulation of the implementation of the policy is something that needs to be done thoughtfully, but this proposal of legislation is not revolutionary, it does not bring any weight, but is such a sorry cheese in the human language, as something is happening, but in fact it does not. Now, you're all kind of blowing on your soul, but, damn it, because you've been in power and delicious power and centralization suits you. Just like the so-called right hand, the so-called old left. That's basically a fact. No, I'm not lying, Comrade Lisec, because he's going to some professional area that I know whether you like it or not. In no serious country to compare ourselves with, we don't have the head restraint we have here. I'm the first half of the term of office to burden the district minister, show me the matrix of all the mandatory tasks from which the laws come, where we'll find the pennies. That's basically, you know, a key question. The autonomy of local government can't just go if it doesn't have enough spaghetti. Now, if we touch on the implementation of this, somewhere out there, it's actually about organizing our everyday life. We had some small revolution with the arrival of a new system, a reform of local self-government that took place there, 1993-1994, and after a quarter of a century even in a much less-absorbed country would need this weighty reform. Even because we have another and a different and more complex one waiting for us, not to say, a perplexing development outcome. Consider also regionalisations or landscapes, if you want, because this is the level where you plan solidarity and other infrastructure. But, of course, this would require a substantial reflection, not going into the countryside in a way that would cut and cut off something with scissors, and also, of course, thinking about opening compulsory tasks for municipalities and also thinking about what to centralise, what to leave to local self-government, even with adequate finances, so that it can be implemented. At the beginning we had the clause “five thousand citizens and citizens”, which then went out. We have more than half of Slovenian municipalities with fewer than 5,000 inhabitants. The average size of the Slovenian municipality is just over three thousand. In fact, we could carry out direct democracy at the level of more than half of Slovenian municipalities. Citizens and citizens, I would also have missed election rights for 16 years, would have met twice, maybe four times a year, one would have come, the other would not, and would have discussed some fundamental developmental issues of the congregation, as is the case in certain Swiss cantons. That would actually be some local government for me. That's what we'd need. You know why? We have four Commissions of Inquiry in this mandate. All four of them will probably make it to the end, I hope. And what do all these four investigative committees show? They point to an irresponsible attitude towards the common, pointing to the kidnapping of society and the state by the vampered policy, pointing to what I call the “paide feudalisation of Slovenia”. Even enough for a policy untalented SMC quickly got used to the “out of our quotas”. Not to mention that gentleman from Desus, who, on the other hand, is basically a good idea and a good way to organise the state forests, which are taken over from the Bavarian model, turn to their heads and, of course, captivate them. And then the gentleman says, "It was time for me to come to heaven." This is Slovenia, which needs to be pulled out of hand. I have actually been thinking the last few days, but you know that we would need both at municipal and national level, as well as at the provincial level when we have it, a provision that any legislative decision that cumulatively exceeds a certain percentage of the budget goes to a binding referendum. What would that mean? At first I was thinking about 5%, now I think it's 3%. This means that any proposal by the Government or the National Assembly, which would exceed 300 million cumulatively, would go to a referendum. This would require at least three subsequent mandates for us to once again be responsible for the common good and for the common money. Where does the proposal of this law go if I come back? The referendum is collapsing, a quota is being introduced, there is no need to do so and there is no excuse for what the previous reference to this National Assembly has achieved and limited the capacity of the people who are essentially the primary authority of this society and country. I recall the first reference, the first session of this National Assembly, when then outgoing President Weber cited this as a fine example of how, despite the great differences between you, you achieved this political maturity, that you limited people's codecision at the referendum. Now, as Jani puts it, when he says that this referendum would not be abused, yes, it is likely that there is almost no referendum that would not be politically abused, in the history of independent Slovenia, but not abused by those lunatics from the congregations, as we say in Maribor, you abused him by political parties, such and different. [[…]] A fine example is the last referendum — is it the last? probably is, yes, about the second track, because it was the only one left, so, the truth is, Alenka Bratusek is the voice of reason that would not lead to this madness. But of course, it was the coalition that cooked it, and I don't want to dispute it in any way, if I put it that way, just the referendum will. In fact, it is a misleading lie that we should limit it at the municipal level. Of course, there is now substantive reading of the Constitution, Jani, and arguments for and against. But you're probably going to say, like you said at the board meeting, it's all about different concepts, and then three sentences, yes, smart enough, because then you automatically overrun all the concepts, except your concept. I now sincerely hope that we will finally get to the reform of local self-government the following two references. We essentially need the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Cohesion, based in Maribor. Why? Because, for the first time, the decentralisation of a country, comparable countries, certain ministries are also placed in other regional capitals and also because more cohesion is being implemented on our side of the Trojan as a result of the development backlog. Not necessarily, of course, limited only to our cohesion region. You could talk about the white landscape, you could talk about the Posača, you could talk about the days, not just the hours. And in this amendment I am literally-- What? - we delete this limitation of the referendum because it is not only unnecessary, because also if you are reading this European charter of local self-government to which you refer, it is contrary to the spirit of this. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u59	The text is held by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, Mag. Kseniya Klampfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. I would like to mention that the proposed amendment to Article 47b aligns the provision on the subsequent referendum with the solution in accordance with the Constitutional Law on amendments to Articles 90, 97 and 99 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which strengthens the majority required to vote on the referendum decision. Since the Law on Local Self-Government has specific provisions on referendums, it also provides for the majority of decisions taken at the referendum. They shall coordinate the provisions with the amendment. Since the purpose of the constitutional law was to tighten the conditions or to establish a so-called rejection quorum on the basis of which the application of the regulation is rejected, the amendment of the Local Self-Government Act at this point is justified, since it takes much less votes than at the national level to challenge the municipal general act due to the small size of the electorate body in the municipalities. This prevents the abuse of the referendum institute to achieve short-term political objectives. This is not how the government supports the amendment, because in this article we do not limit the Institute of the Referendum, but we regulate it in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u61	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u62	Thank you very much, President. Although I thought we had closed the debate on the committee, we're going to do a little bit of, I guess, repeating some of the things on the committee. However, I promise that I will be shorter and, above all, that I will not say what is a great danger usually in such a debate, that we are talking about a reform of local self-government, which is not this law. This law is not, and let us make this very clear to ourselves. That is why I also said that there is no revolutionary change. Comrade Duck with all due respect, but he was talking about things that weren't even open in this marriage. But I believe he would have wanted to. This is, of course, another discussion elsewhere in another discussion. In fact, we have before us an amendment to Article 5, which is actually proposed by the Left or by a party with whom colleague Trček also advocated this amendment. He's mostly talking about what I wanted to warn you about. For what has now been heard by the Government is very complicated and the average Slovenian does not understand it. But I'm going to say it's going to be very clear. Since my colleague Trček supported the law on local self-government, where we regulated the mayor's recall, we arranged in there also, if you remember, a procedure, a way to call someone off. And we have given very high criteria precisely for reasons, because it can be small congregations and to prevent three or fifteen people from agreeing and starting a procedure in one of your ostracisms, and even in the end because of some partial stories, one call can also be made by a man who has run for office, and he wants to finish his term because they do not like a project. And we have, of course, identified this with three different steps, that not everyone will have to, of course, be able to start the procedure, but will not have to finish it so easily, and from this point of view your proposal is, of course, unpleasant in this, because you want to make a difference, which of course you justify, we need to make a more accessible decision-making participation in denying or verifying certain decisions by referendum. I look different, especially because, above all, those who want to trigger these procedures need to be made clear that they cannot do this every day and on and on and on, but first of all they must take responsibility, and the responsibility is, it also shows that they need to convince a certain number of people who are determined by the quorum and then this mass of people represents some legitimacy also from the point of view of democracy, if we want to do so clearly, but now this is the story that, of course, has to go to the referendum and also talk about it, so that it does not occur that one small group of people will actually be such a complicated system within democracy, can each time again to every mayor, but now ask the mayors, the mayors would not want to be four years mayors, but they would like to be six years old, why? Because it is so difficult for them to carry out certain procedures or projects, we will now stop them here. What's very important is that someone else, if not the National Assembly, will determine by law on local self-government how this will be done, and who else can do it? Just the National Assembly, no one else. And we must regulate the conditions and, of course, we see from perception that we are essentially enabling and facilitating and in particular transferring certain responsibilities to the local community, and therefore I also welcome this intervention, and the other municipalities, I apologize, the other parliamentary groups that announced that they would support this law, although they had at the beginning a lot of criticism about the law, but they themselves find that this is actually an improvement, not a barrier or a bar of local self-government. That is why, of course, such an amendment cannot be supported. However, I understand that now everyone would like to participate in every matter in a way, even though I do not believe in it, because people, if that were the case, would already be collecting the signatures and doing the referendums in this way today, but they do not, and it is necessary to know that exceptions always confirm the rule. I agree that it is true, even on excess we cannot now make a comparison that this is true for everyone, but I think that such a new arrangement only means improving the work of local communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u63	The replica of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u64	Yes, thank you for your word. After all, if Jani had listened well, that fear at first, you did not deny it yourself. But of course it is two radically different policies and a radically different view, someone who is not afraid of fellow citizens and fellow citizens and someone who is a little afraid. If I say very clearly, because of a Mihat in Ljubljana, we cannot reach a conclusion in Parliament, all people would just like to guess, but people already have “coffer” referendums such as, as you yourself said, at the national level. Probably as an experienced politician, I should not talk about the average Slovenian, as there is no such thing, but the fact is that a gentleman from the department of the Ministry, something that is more regulated can also limit something not, it is not a logic of exclusion, and the task of the National Assembly is not to transfer something to the level of local self-government, the task of the National Assembly is to determine, to enable the conditions for the implementation of local self-government, and here is a “screw” in the last 25 years. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, then I conclude the debate on Article 5. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u66	Yes, I will hold another part of the debate, which is linked to the “participator”. See, the suburban movement is a suburban movement and the “participator” is a “participator”. Just like the department wants to take him out, it's something that can be, but it can't be, and so on. Of course, we want this to be more specific. Of course, then the municipalities have the option of “fine tune” if I put it that way. In a way like this, I come from the Maribor experience where we started this in Slovenia, after all, I was the devil's lawyer when ImZ wrote the thing when we sat at the table, and we are "who can give 20 euros, who can give 50", that we actually squeezed a brochure. [[…]] And the Participants have developed — why? Not just in Latin America, but somewhere else. Because of the corrupt local authorities, because of this same feudal feud. This should also make such matters more specific, not in the way of a half-blank file that the Ministry is trying to introduce with this novel. That's basically what this is about. But in order to do so, we need - of course, Jani, this is not the subject of this law - some serious reform of local self-government, that in fact - colleague Lisec could talk more about it - in the municipal budget you can even find some money that you can devote to development or to regional landscape when and if we have it. Our amendments, the second part of the amendments, are going in this direction in order to make this more clear and that this is not something “may”, which will be decided by a specific mayor, the mayor, the composition of the municipal councils or not. Maybe I'll need more congregations. Most people say: “The community is too much. Let us put an end to everything except ours." Perhaps we would need more to carry out more and easier so-called direct democracy. Well, at the level of the city councils, greater powers can be given to city districts in this direction, including, above all, to become more accountable to one another, to budgets and to life together. That's what this is about. That's what's happened in the last 25 years. Of course, then we run here not only with the reform of local self-government, but here we are essentially running into a political economy. Here we run if you want to, if you don't like the word “ideology”, into some key set of values. Are we going to be one of us unconsciously competing societies, where we will basically all, in the human language, “smoker” or draw short, or are we going to establish a common solidarity social arrangement? This is the difference between, if you want, Levico and the rest of the policy, by having some part of the other policy in half bluffing, that it is close to Levika, the long mileage, the experience and the resources they cover, let's say my resident colleague in the department, who should be called "the resource of equal opportunities", Mrs Copač or also Mr Židan, let's ask ourselves a little bit about self-sustainment, but I can also go to SMC, energy self-sustainment, and so on, always in practice prove that this is not the case. When was he? Last week, the Vice-President was here not only the European Commission, but also the Vice-President of the EPP, the European People's Party Association, in which the so-called right hand, including radically, including Orban, was present. From 2011 to 2014, he was Prime Minister in Finland and also had an eco-socialist left in the coalition. It represents some liberal wing of this association, just as I absolutely disagree with the urbanisation of Europe and what he said, he said that some development can only be achieved through a model of a society based on inclusiveness, on inclusiveness and that the other most important factor is education. You can't sell pumpkins to educated people. You can't threaten educated people with a Syrian hairdresser here like it's the end of the world. And these are essentially some matters in which Slovenia must move, because this mandate, frankly, is a lost mandate. Now I'm gonna be a cretin at home, my real night in bed, and wait, and what this government has done in the last four years. And one such story, a little more important, a little more structural, I'm really gonna get it for my ears, not for my ears. And we can't afford to, I don't know, five weeks of the next government that's gonna be like this, just one more term. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Kseniya Klampfer, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. I would like to add that the applicant is governed by the institution of a participatory budget following the example of other countries and does not specify in more detail the level of funds or the procedure for implementation. This means that the law leaves it up to the congregations to decide in what way the congregations will regulate it. All three associations of congregations supported such an attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Here you go. A replica?Oh, my God! Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please. Dr. Duck, do you have a replica? Yes, here you go, a replica of dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u70	Look, Jani said very nicely that the National Assembly is the one who makes a thought and determines the conditions of the goods. See, both in the State Council and in the Community of Municipalities, the mayors who are in charge of such a situation and, of course, agree with this ease of defining it. Except for some rare exceptions. But you know, like in Slovenian energy, there are people who are also looking beyond plans and who are looking over a mandate and a half or over their own shadow. So much in the replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I must say that in some parts of the debate with Mr Trčko, I agree. I am also personally disturbed by this too long elasticity, as far as decision-making is concerned in cases of participation. Why? Now I really don't understand, maybe I'm one of those who says Mr. Duck that we should have an even higher education, but I think that all these things are mostly lacking in healthy farmers. What does that mean? Now each congregation will decide - what - for each individual decision, and after that decision, it will always decide in the same way on parity, or it means that it will be able to make different choices for each decision. Look, that's one of the questions. So, one will have to collect signatures for the project, or they will go to this decision in some way, in a referendum, if we call it, all citizens and citizens, the other one will just go, I don't know, they'll talk about it in individual local communities, saints, and then some other project in the congregation, but they'll make a different decision. But they will say no, and now we will do it a little differently, and now we will include 15-year-olds, because we will talk about a new playground. That's what I'm interested in. Or should the congregation then have to make a single decision by decree and how long such a matter should apply, since otherwise, before each such consultation, you can change it as you do. And now in one congregation, I don't know, all citizens and citizens, in another congregation, will decide on the playground, I don't know, local communities, because this option is, etc., let's not go into detail. That's one thing. That's another thing. Now the municipality will be able to take decisions at the beginning, which I agree that the participation of citizens is the greatest if all are involved, including citizens and citizens. Just tell me now, for a project that costs, I don't know, 20,000 euros, they're going to decide all citizens and citizens and it's going to cost everything more than it's worth. I mean, look, that's not how the laws are drawn up. I really don't. This is not how laws are prepared, but not to trust the congregations, they know much more with their money than a number of ministries and government authorities. However, there are too many open cases and too many holes here, and above all see that we do not end up with some decisions stopping or some consultations cost more than the projects themselves. And here, of course, we're back to square one. I think we're giving the municipalities the money back in the first place so they can do any kind of project. Let's give them what we promised them, but not give them first the promise of financial resources, I don't know, for the reconstruction, for the upgrade and reconstruction of primary schools, gymnasiums, and then when the congregation provides its share, the country will move the co-financing up nicely for two years. And how can the congregation help itself when the contract is concluded? It must also start implementing the promised funds, moving quite nicely at the level of the budget for two years to come. This was the case of Mirna Pec. Look, these are small congregations. Such a congregation can destroy this. But they work very cost-effectively with their money and their share are assured, but the country's fine implementation draws on. These are also issues in which we need to talk in the future. I'm totally into participation, but not by writing something on the inside, and then everyone will be watching when we don't know if they're going to change their decisions before each decision, because that's possible. Who will prevent the congregation from changing its decision? It's hard. So it is, and then it can depend on what decision-making will be according to the project. This could happen to you. Someone will not like that some project is to be implemented and will require, I don't know, a different form of consultation than for any other project, because this is not set in. Above all, I am concerned that in the end we will not really spend more money on this than the projects are worth. That is why, of course, I think it would be better to set some boundaries here, or to define more precisely what percentages we are going to go to, in order to really make useful moves forward, but not to make the situation of Slovenian municipalities worse. See, because also in the law, which we will then discuss when we talk about the accessibility of websites and mobile applications. Look, we're bringing something in again, but at the same time we're writing it down now, but if the individual congregation can't guarantee it, it's going to say it can't be done because it has too little resources, and it's not going to guarantee it. Let's give it a rest. The country must ensure that the municipality has sufficient resources to ensure that websites and mobile applications are accessible to all citizens in Slovenia. Now, if a disabled person is from Škocjan, he will not have access because the congregation will not have sufficient resources, while in another congregation they will have much more than that base. That's not right. That's not fair. This is not fair, and then it is no longer equality before the law or before the Constitution, respected. It is because a municipality with no money will be able to do so and the laws do not allow it and we do not give back the average, but we are giving new tasks while watching how they will be implemented, it is important that the law gives us a good description of how we follow the directives of the European Union and how we care that all groups in the country will have the opportunity to do so. [[Incomprehensible]] Yeah, come on! Then let's put all the possibilities in there when they don't have to do it. It is true that if we do not give them money, we cannot impose on them something if they have no place to take it, if they do not have enough resources or employment opportunities, and so on. A little more was said by the congregations about this interstate lawyership, in order to make it more specific [[?]] . They also talked about systematisation, but, as I say, because this is not in this part of the amendment, I think it is wrong to point out, but perhaps only to think about the ministry itself, but perhaps to listen to some things. In this matter, I believe that the amendment is in the right direction, but not in the other, so we cannot support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party. But I call on the ministry to really think and here some things will be recorded more precisely or more specifically for the benefit of all.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u74	Yes, we had the opportunity in the National Assembly to look at a comparative analysis of how, in fact, elsewhere in the world they work or deal with a participatory budget at the local level, where it has actually been shown that approaches are very different and, of course, also very different in their understanding and implementation. Nowhere is there a clear definition of what they will do and how they will actually do it. I must say that, although I am a little disappointed in the debate, because I still do not know whether colleague Anja Bah Žibert will support this law or not, given that she agrees that we have a participatory budget, she does not agree and then says what is actually wrong with her, but she does not say whether she will support it or not. For one reason in particular – that even in the Slovenian space, we actually have part of Maribor and five municipalities, which in fact have already met in one way or another with the so-called participatory budget, and even in one congregation are not carried out in the same way or have not the same approaches, but everyone understands it little by little and in the final stage it is not at all bad. That's not bad at all. The important thing is that it's what they decided was right. This is very important. Nor is it bad if the congregation does not have it if it has decided that they do not need it if it can be arranged within an arrangement that is different from other congregations. I really don't see why it would be so bad for the country to finally allow something for the local community for once and say "may". But that's why, if and that's wrong, they'll settle it with a decree. [[…]] Yeah, but what else, if not with the decree? It's just that the municipalities regulate matters with the decree, and there's nothing wrong with it if they change it. Yes, how many times does the National Assembly change the law and keep changing it and adapting it to the situation? Well, that's living matter. In the final stages, you have to adjust to a situation. Also working to determine with a certain percentage that all so many budgets must be set or at most to set certain limits, I think it is insane. I will give you one example in the Municipality of Ljubljana, for this municipality I know the numbers in mind, so I can discuss it, it is more than 100 million euros for preschool education and education. [[…]] More than EUR 100 million from 270, of the 280 average budget, and if I count the bloated hole every time, it is, say, 300 million from the expected revenue. Now imagine in a congregation that doesn't even have one. He doesn't even have a nursery. Look, you have 40 congregations in Prekmurje. Not every congregation has a kindergarten because it would be crazy because there is not enough life in certain congregations to have any congregation. In some, however, they have three, four, in short, in no congregation is the same problem, and therefore they have a degree of censorship in advance, but for the participative budget, I find it insane. And such a way of thinking seems to me to be really one of these sci-fi ways of understanding how to understand the Law on Local Self-Government, I apologize, so we can't understand the laws, because if we talk like that, then we have serious problems with all the laws in this country. And this law actually offers only the possibility, at last, that even legally the municipality, if it chooses to participate in the budget, can arrange it if it is decided by a decision. Now the answer to colleague Anja Bah Žibert will not, I will determine it, and when the first test is done, because once every congregation meets, if it wants to meet with it, it will find that this does not count, and of course it will go back to the decision and it will say, not so, but so it will be, but every time the mayor will have to fix it, of course, if he will have to get the majority, what in democracy always applies, meaning agreement, consensus, agreement and, finally, a discussion and debate will be opened, whether it needs or not, and in what way. There is no participatory budget in the Municipality of Ljubljana, nor has it been established when I was. But we have one other model, each fourth community gets a certain fund of money and they say themselves and they can't manage this money, but they say this and this is what we want to have, and at that level of funds the mayor just does this, not at all asking whether it makes sense or not, and it's also some kind of participatory decision of a particular group, but it's true that not in a wider assembly of countries, but in a legitimate fourth community, not least in elections, not to joke, we're talking about representatives, it's not just something and someone, and if this model and also over the years these funds are growing, I remember for the first time how many of these funds were in the fourth community and how many of them today, virtually every quarter community already has more than half a million euros directly, which means that they literally can arrange things and as they have decided. Literally, the sidewalk, the lamp, the fences, the anger, I don't know what, whatever. If you say it's small, sorry, go look at what you're proposing in the participatory budget, and add up 0.5 and you'll add up to 17 and you'll get a number that's going to mean something in the budget. However, it is clear to each mayor that he must adapt to the needs and interests and demands, but it is clear that, of course, every mayor comes with his political promises what he will do and you cannot limit him with a participatory budget now, but if he says in the elections that he will do so, he has been elected. And that'll cover his censor. This is not a problem for the local municipalities, because it is a relatively nominally large amount of budgets, although there is a very big problem, because there is a huge task to be done, but in small municipalities this can be very dangerous if they do so because they have smaller amounts and very quickly you look into, I will say, the implementation of the budget, what people would like and what the congregation actually needs, these are the essential differences that they do not show and are not just affected by the ease and not from the level of the country to the local community. This should be regulated by the local community itself, and that is the purpose and purpose of what this law actually regulates today. That's why I think it's kind of absurd, and let's get used to it, because I'm going to use a word that maybe a lot of people don't like, but democracy isn't something that's saved and cemented, but it's mostly growing because every year, with every term, it's actually getting bigger and more widespread, I'm going to say, also people's demands and some of the procedures that have to and are, are becoming democratic, what we thought 10, 15 years ago was absolutely saving, democratic, today might not even be anymore, but it's working, and that's why, of course, today we're talking differently than 15 years ago. And that the answer to some who say that the old is not arranged is, for God's sake, but it will be arranged as the congregation will imagine it to be real and nothing else. Last but not least, if the goal is for us to command everything, to finish and set steps for each congregation in particular, how it will work, forgive me, it is no longer a local community, but we will soon be warring this former executive council, which is the extended deadline of the country. Let's give it to the local community to collect taxes instead of the state, and let's just say 60, 40 divisions, 40 is yours, 60 is from the state or whatever or vice versa. Look, that's not the point. More congregations, please, in the previous term we had a man who said that a hundred congregations should be at least abolished. Let's see if this is something that's coming from a referendum initiative, or if this is something that we're now looking forward to spreading. If you ask citizens, they'll say there's too many congregations. If you ask the mayors they'll tell you, leave us alone. They won't say anything, or there's too many, or leave us alone, that's our legitimate right. I'm happy with that solution. Of course, I don't support the amendment. Time will show, and I believe that in four years we will have a serious conversation and meet with the question of how far we have come. I'm sure, you know, I'll just give you one piece of information, look at the list of how many people, the citizens are coming in and the comments on the budget, which are publicly published and distributed, and you'll see what that means about this participation. People don't care if they think they trust mayors if they trust local communities. But if they don't trust him, believe me, there will be columns in front of those books that will record what is "fows" in that book, or it's called budgeting. I must personally say, in the Municipality of Ljubljana there are many people. Shall I tell you how many proposals and comments there are for the budget to be drawn up? I don't know if there's 40 of them, but even some of them are mostly city saints. That's funny. So much for this awareness of how much people actually want to participate and how much they don't want to participate. However, mayors also use different forms, because you know, one mayor goes to have 20 projects, and they say, now tell me priorities or it will be one or it will be one sooner. That's it. They don't even talk about the budget at all, but he has to make sure that he does. But it's a very dangerous thing to do, you know, when someone else starts to tell you what you're going to do. And that's exactly what you want me to do. [[?]] We're starting a local community. That's not working.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u76	Yeah, it's nice to listen to Janie. She's gonna be a great magnetogram. If I don't stop teaching, I'll tell the students, here, do a critical analysis of the discourse, what is the main fear that Jani and his like are afraid of. When I try you, with everything you've said, you're going to beat the crap out of you very quickly. On the one hand, yes, who else, if not the National Assembly, will determine the local communities. On the other hand, the local communities will determine for themselves. Of course, it was a provocation of a large number of municipalities, but it can also be a serious reflection within a reform of local self-government when more powers are transferred to the regional level. About the budget, Jankovic or whoever will be the mayor of Ljubljana has the self-representation of what is, Ljubljana-Ljubljančanka, but the municipality has enough knowledge and size of people to do as much infographic as the Court of Auditors for the Slovenian State Budget, and somehow I didn't see it. The key problem of not being too long, of course, through our view of this would be a little harder, I will say, as often as possible in Ljubljana, every other three, four annexes up. [[Incomprehensible]] And we both know very well, we could go into the details of Ljubljana's stories with some gentleman, and what it's like, if a local or a city neighborhood thinks of itself, but not like the boss, but we can go to the village and watch it, we can go somewhere else. Don't start selling pumpkins. And I'm inviting you to Prekmurje to take a look at it, because it was a little bit insulting, too, to put it into words. But of course it is a legal and legitimate difference in terms of this and, of course, I hope, after the following reference, that this debate will be much more serious. Of course, the result is a fear of politics in order for people to come along. However, it is an underestimating attitude towards the people and from what you have written, it is also true that the mayors are not supposed to be executive authorities, which are basically, the colleague will probably then tell you, because your colleague Lah was unable to “spave” a visa-a-vis to his village, but he had to watch how he would tie his jaw together. In particular, I don't think policies with a longer kilometre should be so I'm going to say about citizens and citizens of this society and the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Tink Lah. It's a replica. Here you go, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u78	I'm only going to replicate two things to my buddy Runk. One thing is, of course, I don't know where I insulted the suburban congregations. I said there's over 40 of them, and there's not a lot of them in kindergarten, and that doesn't mean any offense. All I wanted to say was that the budgets between the municipalities were very different and the needs and requirements were very different. Run [[?]] If you understood that as an insult, then you've been following me poorly. Secondly, of course, what you are mentioning, I am mainly talking about the part where you talk about how serious we are when we talk about it - especially me - that I deny myself when you say, "Who is the other one, if not the National Assembly, who will decide with the law?" Yes, of course, because no one else in the country can, because that's logical, but at the same time, of course, I tell you where that limit is, when some thing commands and prescribes. Of course it's nothing but abuse itself and I'm glad you'll give the students my magnetograms. Thank you very much, but I consider it an honor to be so valuable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Bell Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Vice President. To a large extent, I agree with Mr Janije Möderndorfer, because it appears that he was also a mayor for many years. As far as the municipal budget and the costs are concerned, I fully agree. That about one third of fixed costs with pre-school education and primary school are not to mention investments that are not included here. Yes, as far as the congregations are concerned, to determine more directly what they should and should not do with the law. You know, there's a lot of desire in the congregations. In municipalities, the difference is that I was mayor of 13 years of small municipality, and my colleague Jani knows the biggest Slovene municipality that there are many tasks, but the basic tasks are those envisaged by the Constitution, this is a compulsory public economic service. They can be with the wishes of citizens somewhere in the center, where a number of larger citizens are required to build towers, swimming pools, tennis courts, and there are no water people in the hills. If we look at it this way, they'll never have a plumbing or anything like that. There'll be people in the cities, not to say anything. As far as kindergarten is concerned. I don't think there's a community that doesn't have a kindergarten. Involvement of children in kindergarten has increased by 100% in the last eight years, an extraordinary cost, even if the area where incomes are lower or the people with lower incomes have to be heavily paid by the municipality. But what my colleague said before was a little over. It can be seen that there is no experience at the municipal level and it is difficult for me to agree that this law is being dealt with by the Church of Croatia. [[…]] But life on the ground is a little different. That's what I'd like to say. We need some reform of local self-government, and perhaps less for larger or urban congregations more for these small, underdeveloped congregations such as Haloze, White Krajina, I don't know what else. If 280 thousand citizens don't have healthy drinking water and we put water in the Constitution, it's a question to ask. That we do not have an orderly separation and treatment of waste water, even Ljubljana does not yet have, but only the municipality where the settlement is more dispersed. We have to fix this, too. We have promised Europe. However, we now note that after 2020 there will be no more European money for municipal infrastructure. He just won't be. I would suggest that the next government, when, in this financial perspective from that smart specialisation where there is a billion 200 million, I doubt that it will be spent, I think a small percentage, so that half of this money will be diverted by changing the operational programme into municipal infrastructure and doing what we have to do in the area of municipal infrastructure. Even as far as waste is concerned. We sort them to a large extent, but in the final policy that Europe has set up, we go to cream tourism. I think they drive garbage from the coast to Ljubljana, which is a huge cost and perhaps unnecessary costs. When I watched almost 20 years ago in Austria how this was arranged, when, say, the congregation’s goal was to send as few wastes out of its congregation as possible, to recycle them as possible and to use them back in the congregation itself. I mean, it's necessary. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] it would be to reduce at the source of the waste itself. But we don't do that with us because someone sees some business, even though this business isn't as it was ten years ago, it's seen, it's the basis for the congregations, all the rest of the Ones can afford luxury, and the others can't. [[…]] Now I find that we have a 30, 40-year-old paved road on the periphery. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] With self-contributions that are gone and we can't even maintain that anymore. It takes some big change here, maybe not pure reform, but something in local self-government needs to be done, at all due to [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the government. First, let me say that the New Slovenia Group cannot support the amendment proposed in Levica, and I know that this is Dr. Franz Trček, who, of course, has to defend this amendment, will not resent it, nor will I blame the repeated very badly wrong data of my esteemed colleague Jani Möderndorfer. So many times Prekmurje has been mentioned here, but his debate is actually one stereotype of how Prekmurje is dealt with. If I heard him correctly when I listened to him in the office and then here, when he repeated it, but no offense, Comrade Jani, that there are 40 or perhaps even more congregations in Prekmurje, which would mean that almost one fifth of all congregations in Prekmurje. That's more than twice over. There are 19 municipalities in Prekmurje and 27 municipalities in the statistical region called Pomurje. I think that my debate will be continued or strengthened by the former mayor, Sir Franz Jurša. Moreover, some congregation in Prekmurje, if I understand correctly, colleague Möderndorfer, does not have a kindergarten. This one's gonna get worse, and this one's gonna get worse. This could in some way mean that these congregations, I don’t know, are doing something, but they don’t actually care about their children. This way we can interpret your debate and you can replicate it, whatever. See, in the school year 2016/2017 there were 946 kindergartens or kindergarten units in the whole country. As far as kindergartens are concerned, we can take a special look, look at the Municipality of Lake Osilnica and the Municipality of Osilnica, but today it is not a topic. That's not the topic today. True, it is one stereotype of how to look at someone who is not even a region, that is, Prekmurje, which looks far east through Ljubljana’s glasses or through centralist glasses. And, of course, if you have such a Member and more such Members, if you have ministers in the Government, ministers who are so watching, God forbid to let them see it, then the answer is why we have such dramatic, incompatible regional development in Slovenia is the answer to palms. It is the answer to the palm, if viewed as such and also in previous mandates, in one of the parties, in fact, before LDS, we had a lady who was also the mayor, who gave them a diagnosis that the developmental backlog of Prekmurje's developmental backlog was the fault of an excessive number of municipalities. That's crazy. That's more than crazy. This is a concentration of madness, excuse me, such a verbal relationship, because I would very much like to put you in one van and I would like to take you to Prekmurje again, back to Prekmurje, where one municipality one Fara one school environment and the municipality developed that actually Ljubljana hat can lift up, but there is no state institution, state company, etc. So it becomes increasingly clear to me why this gap between the developed central Slovenian region will continue to increase if you want or central Slovenia and between the extreme eastern part of this country or, if you want, Bela Krajina or some other, that I will not now, I do not have statistics on my hands. But here in the next term, the new government, according to my opinion, is waiting for a very important task to optimize local self-government. We probably have enough experience now, and we know exactly what needs to be done. And of course, we need to reopen, as we had in the years or in the 2004-2008 mandate, that is to say, to reopen the debate on the introduction of a second level of local self-government on the establishment of provinces or regions or as you wish. That's when we spoke to the provinces. Of course, it's local self-government, but it's level two. I regret that, in this mandate, this coalition has not gathered enough courage to perhaps, together with the opposition, both left and right, try to find a solution that may or should lead to at least a slight reduction in the development gap between, as is said, central Slovenia and between peripheral provinces. I often wonder what our people would actually be doing in Prekmurje, in Pomurje, if it weren't for Austria next door. The agencies, Austria, of course, who are looking for workers, are working full-time, as we call it, offering everything possible. They offer very cheap, indeed, very cheap municipally arranged land for the construction of residential buildings in the Austrian municipalities. This propaganda, if you want, is amazing. She's amazing. And no one in Ljubljana, now I'm going to point out that there's obviously no headache in Ljubljana, that our periphery is empty. Not only do we have the natural growth that we have, rather negative than positive, but people are moving out. See, young people who have some knowledge, which is certainly the largest capital, they simply look, look, the whole world is a global village and look and find a better location for themselves, pack suitcases and go. We, all of us citizens of this country, have invested in their knowledge and thank God that we have invested, but in some way we would like to stay at home as well. We're for some kind of brain circulation, but we're not here to witness a brain drain. So much for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer, I ask you not to disturb your colleagues in the discussion. Now whether the discussion is real or not, of course it's not my problem or I can't decide. Here you go, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u84	Vice President, if anyone's in trouble, that's your problem because you're in charge of the meeting. And according to the Rules of Procedure, it is clear that you must alert the Member when he goes out of the debate. Parliamentary practice is that in the first amendment we speak in general, there was no problem when my colleague Trček went into discussions and reforms, but in all the other amendments it is known that we must stick to the amendment. He spoke exactly a minute about the amendment, and then nothing more, and then he talked about everything else, just not what was the main purpose. Of course, I will have a replica, a replica in that part, colleague Jože, not since yesterday in Parliament, you have finely abused this discussion now, my mistake is the only one that I admit, yes, it is, you are right, there are 19 congregations in Prekmurje, but it is also a problem that we, when we call Prekmurje, we also think of Pomurje or the head of the hen and we talk about everyone. That's what we're talking about. But my purpose was not to talk about how someone does not work, but how the municipalities in Pomurje and Prekmurje have no tasks, if they were involved, and if they really listen to the debate, it was my intention to say something else, that the municipality of Ljubljana, when we are at it and if you have already done this distinction how we want to despise all these congregations, have completely different needs and problems than they have in Prekmurje and Pomurje, which does not mean that we can get them to the same level and say, you will all spend the same percentage of the participatory budget from your own budget, yes, for God's sake, how, if we are so different and have different needs and requirements. This was my discussion, not how we think today that it is different in Prekmur and Pomur, in fact they do not have requirements, they do not need. Of course, they have needs, and they hold on to a lot of what you said, but forgive me, we are talking about the amendment proposed by the Left, and this is to determine the censorship, not that the municipalities can decide for themselves whether they have a participatory budget or at what level. This was my main intention, the discussion, everything else, Jože no offense, I resent you not, but, as a brook of politics that doesn't sit at 90 anymore, you just flew into the debate successfully and now you've warned again where you're going to run for office. It's not fair. Let's talk about local self-government as such. I get it. Look, you just didn't make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Ducky. Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u86	I mean, procedurally. This little thing now turns out to be, like, because the three of us are the three Members who speak the most in this reference, are the most active and someone is going to watch this, that it's the finale now who's going to pick up even more words. But my procedural is, you are both an experienced politician, and unlike me and this time Mr Jani has gone a little over because a colleague has actually talked about what affects how much money the municipality has so that we can go a little more committed to participating. And I'd like you to give my colleague Jani a heads-up. You've got a base in the so-called. the Parliamentary Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer has heard. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Thank you very much. Then I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timetable tomorrow, as part of the vote. I'm putting an end to the 15th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 16. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on the availability of plots and mobile applications within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. For further explanation of the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the government to the doctor, excuse me, Minister Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Chairman. Let me stress that because I've been told many times, I'm not a doctor, I'm just a regular Boris Koprivnik. However, it is my task to present to you the proposal of the Law on Accessibility to Websites and Mobile Applications, because the purpose of this law is to facilitate access to information and services of the public sector via the Internet and to facilitate the enforcement of their rights regardless of possible obstacles, and this is important to increase digital inclusion for all categories of the population and, finally, such legislation or website regulation is also important for an ever-increasing group of people who do not otherwise have specific needs, and finally, all of us can use such regulated websites because they are more transparent and easier to access. The second is, of course, that we also bring about a European Directive on accessibility to websites and mobile applications for which the deadline for the transposition of the 22nd September and this European Directive have also been fully transposed into the proposed law, while at the same time upgrading it with some additions specific to our case. Of course, the debtors are state authorities, authorities of local self-government and persons of public law, under the law governing public procurement, which defines the debtors and assesses that this is cca. A thousand 360 organisations, but we also have a few exceptions to the directive itself, which are also specifically defined in the law. These exemptions apply to content other than those relating to essential online administrative functions. We already have quite a few examples of good practices in Slovenia with regard to this type of website regulation, since, let's say, the national E-government portal, the public portal of the Municipality of Ljubljana is fully regulated in accordance with this Directive, and even a number of others are, although not yet in force, which means that we already recognize the need in practice, those who want to have the website as accessible as possible, despite the fact that this is not a marriage obligation of the website, so prepare and make them better available to all citizens. However, commitment to this law must ensure that websites comply with the national standard, and this relates mainly to the size of the font, the colour, the background, and we have added that videos on such sites must be equipped with sign language for deaf people. In addition, we have added that, in cooperation with representative disability organisations in our ministry, we will take care of the training of website preparers, we have added that we will also, with the help of disabled organisations, encourage greater awareness and convince the owners of websites and mobile applications that they are also adapting them, this is our obligation and that we will therefore introduce concrete activities. At the same time, we have also introduced inspections, which, within our ministry, are also checking or actually web sites in accordance with this law, are preparing and taking action in the event of non-implementation of such legislation, while our ministry also assumes the obligation to report to the European Commission. The application of this law is in September 2019 for new websites and September 2020 for adapting existing websites, as we estimate that more energy and time is needed to adapt existing ones, while new ones can already be developed in accordance with the current law or law we are proposing. There is also a proposal for a nomotechnological amendment, for which I also propose to the National Assembly that, in accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading of the bill be carried out now, according to this meeting of the National Assembly and that the proposal for a law be supported as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Baby Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u90	Thank you for saying so, Vice President. Once again a nice greeting, of course a special greeting to the minister. At its 66th emergency meeting, on 6 April 2018, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Administration considered the draft Law on Accessibility of Websites and Mobile Applications submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. Within the time limit, the amendments were tabled by the SMC, Desus and SD members to the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, ninth, tenth and new Article 16a and Article 18 respectively. Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration, provided an additional explanation for the article of this Act. He said that the aim of the bill is to allow access to public sector information and services for all users, in particular those with different forms of obstruction, which will increase digital inclusion. The draft law transposes the 2016 Directive and the deadline for transposition into national law expires in September of this year. He stated that the undertakings are state authorities, authorities of self-governance local communities and persons of public law, following a proposal from the law, but the proposal also provides for a number of exceptions. In a presentation of a written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the Rule of Law had mainly drawn attention to the lack of clarity and uncertainty of the regulation resulting from the over-automatic transposition of European legislation. It also stated that certain provisions according to the SPS need to be supplemented so that they can be implemented at all. Finally, it added that the proposed amendments take due account of the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Services. The representative of the Council of State said that the State Council supported the bill. Members of the coalition and the opposition expressed their support for the bill. With regard to the exceptions provided by the proposal for a law on the debtors, the Ambassador of the Left Group stressed that it would be necessary for those who are exempt from the law, namely RTV, kindergartens and primary schools, to provide information accessibility. The Ambassador of the New Slovenia Group considered the purpose of the bill to be a good one and expressed concern that the draft law allowed too much scope for exceptions and thus the possibility of abuse. Members of the coalition felt that the envisaged inspection of the implementation of the bill would ensure that the exceptions allowed by the bill would not be misused. The Committee then adopted amendments to the SMC, DeSUS and SD groups to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 9, 10 and 16a and 18 respectively. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Trček will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u92	Thanks again. Two points ago, we considered the Law on the Social Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities, which brings positive solutions to the easier integration of disabled persons into society and the appropriate scope of rights. There is therefore another law ahead of us to ensure easier access to websites and mobile applications. However, the government has not done its work as it should in this law, which is relevant to today’s important and crucial area. Why? Concerns for persons with disabilities should certainly pay more attention, not just to some cosmetic level, which unfortunately is this law, but to systemic measures that would actually ensure that we eliminate exclusion in all forms. Here, of course, I also have in mind the austerity measures that have been taken against those measures. For example, the number of beneficiaries of a full disability pension has been decreasing for more than 10 years. In 2005, 22% of applications were positively resolved, with only 7.5% in 2015, a three-fold reduction. The average disability pension was 482,74 euros last year, which is 142 euros less than the average pension and 128 euros. [[?]] Euros less than the minimum cost of living, and this could also be a problem for the calculation of these costs. Savings blocked the development of social security institutions and home care systems. Personal assistance is increasingly dependent on the financial power of the disability organisations they carry out and so on. This is just one part of the problem in this area. And the second is the relationship to the problem. Every time we consider solutions related to caring for disabled people, unfortunately we meet with half-life. We can remember Calvary by providing disabled eligible voters. It took three years to eliminate the finding of unconstitutionality and all three years to legalise a 100 % margin of voter accessibility. Fortunately, an arrangement was adopted that does not allow for any exceptions. The situation is similar in this law. This is where we face half-life. Of course, the law is welcome, and it is sad that we are doing this because of the implementation of the EU directive and not because a country that would decide to do something for some 160,000 people with different forms of handicap would be able to do so. It is sad that the government has taken a very minimalist approach. If we carefully read the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, the law makes even less of us than it requires, or expects, a European directive. The law provides, as exceptions to the application of this law, for kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools and RTV. It does not commit to these laws and its websites and applications will not need to be adjusted. Colleges, kindergartens, primary and secondary schools, not. As usual, it is again saved in the most vulnerable groups. In Levi, we believe that the exceptions to this law should be deleted; there is no valid argument for such a solution to be an exception. The directive does not, after all, allow it, but we do not, in particular, accept solutions that are of a purely austerity nature. Especially if they are proposed by the Government and the coalition, which, with the support of the right side of the opposition without difficulty, finds subsidies for foreign investments, the tax relief of the richest and, ultimately, 1.2 billion euros for weapons. As a commitment to Nate, 1.2 billion, this is one-eighth of the annual budget, ladies and gentlemen. Although we will support the law in Levica, it is a step in the right direction, even though it is a halfway step. However, we are convinced that the government and the coalition could find enough money to make the websites and applications of kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools and RTV accessible to disabled people. Because where, if not in primary education you'll somehow meet and wake up and become empathetic to different forms of handicap and where, if not there, it starts [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] learning social solidarity and, in fact, this law, as it translates the directive, actually overtakes that. The second part of this is part of a somewhat more technical nature, and more so in the debate on amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Ms Janja Sluga will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Vice President. The commitment to adapt the physical accessibility of the facilities to the elderly and the disabled has already been made, as a society, and even legally determined. Few, however, consider that online accessibility is also important for an individual. The Internet is becoming one of the key elements of today's life for all of us, so it is important that the information and services it offers are accessible to all. Certain vulnerable groups face many problems when using the Internet. It is important that everyone can use the Internet, as greater accessibility of online content increases the digital inclusion of vulnerable groups, which is essential in today's world for access to information, public sector services and also for the exercise of the rights of each individual. The European Union is also aware of this and a directive on the accessibility of public sector bodies’ websites and mobile applications was adopted at the end of 2016. The websites and applications of administrative authorities, hospitals, courts and others in the public sector must be easily accessible to all users. Online content should also be available on mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets. This is why the law aims to provide more accessible websites and mobile applications for all users, in particular users with different forms of barriers. As a result, the aim is to increase the digital inclusion of vulnerable groups. According to the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, between 12 and 13% of the population in Slovenia are estimated to belong to one of the categories of disability. The draft law therefore regulates measures to ensure accessibility of websites and mobile applications within the public sector. Obligations under the law are state and local authorities and administrations and public entities under the law governing public procurement. The proposed law will not apply to certain types of websites and mobile applications and to certain content published on websites and mobile applications, except for kindergartens, primary and secondary schools, with the exception of content relating to essential online administrative functions, and to websites and mobile applications of public television and other bodies managing the public service of television. Thus, all 212 congregations and 150 others will have to adjust their websites. It is the obligation of the undertakings to ensure that, in accordance with the standard prescribed by the proposal of the law, websites and mobile applications are detectable, comprehensible, robust and accessible. This in practice means that the user will be able to adapt the content in a way that is useful for it. Each debtor will have to issue a disproportionate burden assessment, which means that a smaller organisation will be able to take account of the financial resources, internal organisation and activity it manages compared to the benefits of the users and, therefore, if this comparison is disproportionate and too much of the organisation will not have to meet the criteria set out in the draft law. The draft law also provides for certain inspections which will prevent disproportionate burdens from being used and that assessments will be properly prepared. Inspection will check whether certain content on the website due to excessive financial burden cannot be adapted to the new law. The Ministry of Public Administration will provide training for debtors, public servants and other providers of other public websites and mobile applications, and will also encourage increased user awareness to use content and encourage those who will not be required to enter the system in order to adapt their online links to the standards set out in the bill. We will, of course, support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party in the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u96	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice President, distinguished Minister with a team, colleagues, colleagues, nice greeting. The fact is that information communication technology has made a huge leap in a relatively short time and has come into all segments of life. Not only is rapid development becoming more pervasive and influential, but today we are using information communication technology in all working environments as well as in private life. The development of information and communication technologies is crucial to Europe's competitiveness against the rest of the world, as we live if we recognize ourselves or not in a more digital and global economy. This improvement in access, use and quality of information and communication technology is also among the 11 thematic objectives of cohesion policy in the period 2014-2020. As has already been said today, the proposed law transposes the European directive into our legal order, the law concerns state and local authorities and administrations and public entities under the law governing public procurement. Of course, it is the right objective to allow the user easier access to public sector information and services and thus facilitate the exercise of their rights, but it is also necessary to highlight the importance for users with individual forms of obstruction and increasing the digital inclusion of vulnerable groups of people, but also, in the positive effects of the law, we must not ignore the new obligations and the burdens it brings to local authorities. The solution that, in the event of a disproportionate burden on the financial and organisational capacity of the debtor alone, it is not good to meet certain legal requirements. In the opinion of the SDS Group, the State should provide adequate financial resources to ensure that the law is implemented in accordance with the provisions, since otherwise disadvantaged users who will receive a difference will again be able to access websites and mobile applications. In short, in the SDS Group, we consider the proposed solution to be unfair, as well as inadequate and follows a paradigm that is one of the red threads of this government. This is that once again there are differences between municipalities, that we will have first-class and second-class municipalities, and above all there are differences between citizens, between users who will be first and second-class again. At the same time, too few laws such as today's law on online accessibility and mobile applications will address the problem of abuse in this area. It is not necessary to look elsewhere than on the Internet to see what is happening in this information age through online communications when social network founders stand or sit before national authorities, before judicial authorities and defend or act correctly or abuse their social networks to obtain such and other information. In short, information and communication technology does bring many benefits and benefits into our lives, and we must not forget its traps or injustices that we can cause. It is right to know them and do everything we can to avoid or prevent them. We must also ensure that possible abuses are also properly sanctioned. The bill has good drafts, but as always, the devil is in detail, and this detail shows that instead of some single solutions, we will once again be divided into first-class and second-class citizens, to which we strongly oppose in the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u98	Honourable Vice President, Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! We have a whole new bill on parliamentary benches aimed at providing more accessible websites and mobile applications to public sector bodies, taking into account the uniform requirements for all websites and mobile applications of these bodies. Therefore, the aim is to increase digital inclusion primarily for those with different forms of obstruction, i.e. those who are physically impaired, blind and visually impaired, deaf and deaf, and older persons. In other words, these individuals are allowed easier access to public sector information and services and easier enforcement of their rights, which is one of the categories of disability between 12 and 13% of the population. Among other things, the bill introduces a directive on accessibility of websites and mobile applications into our legal order. Certain debtors and their obligations must ensure that websites and mobile applications are functional, understandable and accessible, so they must ensure that the user is able to adapt the content in a way that is useful to him, will determine the size of the font, contrast and so on. Each debtor will have to make a disproportionate burden assessment, which means that a smaller organisation will be able to take into account financial resources, internal organisation and the activities it manages compared to the benefits for users and if this comparison is disproportionate and too much of a cost, the organisation will not have to meet the criteria set out in the bill. Of course, there is also a need for inspection, which is also foreseen by the bill. Its purpose, inter alia, is to ensure that the assessments are properly prepared. The inspection will check whether the content on the website due to an excessive financial burden cannot be adapted to the new law. We are also aware that further adaptation of websites and mobile applications needs to be encouraged, new and new solutions need to be sought, thus allowing for the greatest possible digital inclusion of every individual. In the Desus Group, we support the bill under consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. The proposed law on accessibility of websites and mobile applications transposes into the Slovenian legal order a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council which entered into force on 22 December 2016. The aim of the Directive is to provide users of websites and mobile applications of the public sector with better and easier accessibility. Therefore, public sector information and services must be accessible to all. In particular, the State must provide access to persons with disabilities and the elderly, or to anyone who has any personal problems or circumstances that make it impossible for them to access information on normal routes. Since the Directive also provides for access to content, forms and payments on websites, it is necessary to ensure that websites and mobile applications are detectable, operational and also understandable. If our aim and objective are to increase digital inclusion and promote interoperability, we must also consider ensuring the safety of such operations. In Slovenia, we have achieved good, envious results in the field of the protection and protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. The employment rate of people with disabilities is increasing. Equalization of opportunities for disabled persons is reflected in greater accessibility to technical devices, whether for those who need assistance in communication or for those who might find something else. However, this does not mean that the situation cannot be improved in the future in this area. The Union of Workers with Disabilities of Slovenia decided 15 years ago to develop the project “Citizenly Disabled People” and thus contribute to the implementation of the UN Standard Rules on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities and the Maastricht Declaration. The project presented to local authorities what are the obstacles that allow individual groups of citizens to co-exist and co-form common life in the local environment. The project is recognized, it's successful, it's got results. Social Democrats believe that now is the time for the "Disabled people's municipality" project to be reflected at a higher level. We will strive for a society of disabled people, not only by measure of disabled people, but also by the elderly. Also because the population of Slovenia is older than in most other countries of the European Union, we need to take care of measures that will enable older generations to become active and quality ageing, to involve older people in society and to adapt the work processes for older workers who will have to or will want to continue to participate in social processes. The “Older for Older Persons” projects and projects that encourage the participation of several generations teach us mutual respect and understanding are a guarantee to build a better and more successful society. We have joined the Social Democrats in signing the request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and to address this bill because it is a government law and has been preparing together with non-governmental organisations dealing with the problem of disabled persons functionally obstructed and elderly. They pointed out that it is time to put an end to the obstacles to ensuring equality in access to the Internet or communications networks when removing physical barriers. We would like the envisaged measures of this law to be implemented in accordance with the plans and financial assessments, since the first report will not be sent to the European Commission until 23 December 2021. The proposal for a law on accessibility of websites and mobile applications is therefore a step towards building a better and more accessible society for all, so the Social Democrats will support the bill, but despite the fact that we have received comments just before now from the Digital Society Forum, which are also in certain cases [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] justified and, since the application is only in the years to come, we propose that the law be amended accordingly by then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u101	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We turn to the debate on Articles and the amendment tabled on 13 April 2018. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u102	Yes, thank you for your word. Of course, a substantive debate is needed. I listened to a colleague in front of me, and somehow I wondered whether the SD had been in the opposition so far or headed a ministry with a long name ending and equal opportunities. It was also said, we approached because it was a government law. In short, if it were probably proposed by the Left, I would put it in the name of the Left, because I am covering this area, probably the coalition would be against and increasingly radically right-wing urbanist right in the opposition. If we go to look at some budget cuts, we see that this law and the next information security law are a lot of talking and there will be a crazy little effect. Bojana said well what they are, I don't like the word "disability" but I will use it, the disabled organizations have proposed 15 years ago. We even had the Ministry of Information Society in a certain mandate, and now, after almost 20 years, we need a European directive to get a little formal. I remember-- how much is that? - for 20 years, probably, at the time, he was in the fashion of, say, different rotarians or similar gatherings for Braille. I've always wondered back then, damn it, why this Braille line is so expensive. I didn't think it was a good idea for someone to do a little shopping, either. 20 years ago, some serious policy should have said, if I explain in this case, wait, good morning, what we have here, how many people who need it, where we will find the money in the budget, who, which domestic company or companies will programme it, who will do the hardware. A lot of fencing around how much it costs, how much it doesn't cost, you know, I'm watching a tapegram of the National Assembly. The Magnetogram of the National Assembly is stone-cold. And at the level of such readability, because it does not push over the “pesano” that we have in 20 years, the story does not now fly on the ladies who type it, and because it is also stoned at the level of machine readability. And here's the story about where to find the money and how to mess it up. But, of course, if this country didn't feudaryize it, we would already have this because we should define protocols where we should define standards, because we should define formats, how some things will be machine-readable, because we have people at our largest institute and at schools for information technology and elsewhere who can program it. And then this would not be such a cost if you wanted, for a congregation, kindergarten or anyone else, because you should have tools that would ultimately make it easier to design and manage the websites of these actors and because, of course, they would have formats that would be easier to manage. And that's where you have to go with this story. And that would be some kind of responsibility for some ministry that's built up more ICTs. Personally, I think that we would need, sometimes we had a government IT service, in fact a separate department dealing with state-level and state-level information technology in a broader sense that would consider these matters. But of course, in this way some cousins, cousins, brothers, political pals, will be left with no easy part of the journey. Well, when we had that affair of the Koro boys that some of you were shamelessly beating here or this part of the political spectrum isn't currently in the hall, which is an unacceptable kind of beating from a foreign terrible accident, it turned out to be - What? - even social work centres didn't have a unified computer science. Because, of course, it's that political extortion, if you want, at the local regional level. And just as I said before, you know, the seriousness of a society and opinion is very well seen as having organised rail transport, especially passenger or public passenger transport, and of course how they also have organised such information. I mean, this government was bragging about something like this in front of her, I know, all in one place, we're gonna organize everything, everything's great. A few governments back then were Virant, wow, the second best e-government in the EU, then the companies on the cover of Work congratulated the country, of course, if you went a little bit of that methodology to watch, it was just a little bit of a disconnect, they have, they have, they have, whether it works now or not, but it was a question that wasn't important. And then, in principle, you could have extended, I don't know what, traffic, but you couldn't arrange for car insurance if you were talking about a company with car-obsessed people. And dealing with these issues, as well as the next Information Security Act, is actually - what - is really a matter of funding science and is actually some serious thought and turn to the government and public administration in some computerised society. You know, today you speak some views here of other parliamentary groups, here, the expert essays sent me and the web gets more and more into effect. Well, I mean, where do you live? I mean, it's been 25 years. And this is also some task that the next government will have to take. Also at the level of information security, which is increasingly important. And let's give here some of that billion 200 million we'd like to give, without some serious discussion about what, I don't know, some guy named Nate. This is how we will protect Slovenia. Let's just, I don't know, 150 million dollars to our mathematicians to develop a serious cryptography, give 50 million people to develop what I'm talking about. And then it will actually be possible to throw up some content with a decent format and then it will only be possible to implement this law. And now that we are before the elections, we know that the people of the third life period will go to the elections, somehow all of you are blowing on his soul in two. I'm also a handicapped person, as far as that's concerned. I've had a long time ago, as the lady who examined my eyes told me, and you have computer eyes, almost behind a winch. [[?]] You're watching. I'd need that, too, but I have to use certain apps to get my letters up and down. In short, the whole story is, as it is set up, as it is in the budget, as it has been driven for 20 years, one great duality. However, I have indicated here how this could be done or how this should be resolved, and I hope that Levica will be part of this rescue before summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. I hereby terminate the 16th item of the agenda. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, this is a second defence proposal for the Information Security Act, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The proposal for a law was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u104	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members. We have before us a proposal for an information security law and information security has already been mentioned several times in the debates, and it is essential that we also take care of it in normative work, especially in practice. This law gives us a directive on the high level of security of networks and information systems of the European Union. The deadline for transposition of this Directive is 9 May 2018 and more importantly, we are systematically regulating the field of information security at the strategic and operational level in our country. Commitments under this Act are essential service providers, which is also synchronized with the critical infrastructure law, namely energy, digital infrastructure, drinking water supply, health care, transport, banking, infrastructure, financial markets, food supply and environmental protection. In these areas, let me say that drinking water supply, food supply and environmental protection are added because they are not required by the European Directive, but in accordance with the Critical Infrastructure Act, we also add these two areas in Slovenia. At the same time, we also add to the authorities of the state administration concerned by our ministry, because we too are subject to this way to respect all commitments that impose information security concerns. However, there are also digital service providers under this Directive, such as online markets, online search engines, cloud computing and other services, which, of course, are becoming increasingly questionable from this point of view also for the general public, and it is important for them to remain committed to this law as well. However, the obligations are to ensure minimum safety requirements, to determine how incidents are reported and to know that incidents are actually to be evaluated. However, the Fund under the Directive is excluded from the scope of operators, as they are referred to as the so-called ZEC, which regulates information security and trust service providers, who are already bound by the so-called EIDAS European Regulation. The competent national authority will be the Information Security Authority when it is established from 2020 and by then the Office for the Protection of Secret Data, which is already gradually taking on this coordinating role. A national response centre is also designated as a body for dealing with incidents in the field, now carrying out this task at Arnes and will manage it further until otherwise regulated, and it is important that we have a central authority in the country that responds to all incidents that arise and also carries out rapid coordination. At the same time, a response centre of the public administration authorities is also being set up, which is responsible for the security of information systems of the state administration. We value the incidents between easier, harder, critical or possibly cyber attack, but it is particularly important that we also regulate the way incidents are monitored, how they are reported, and how, even in the event of more complex incidents, certain actions can be taken and immediately determined to ensure that our information security and our critical infrastructure are as wide as possible, while also contributing to better information security for society as a whole. Members and Members are asked to support the proposal of this law and thus take a further step towards improving information security at an age where this is an increasingly sensitive issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Ms Janji Slug, Vice-President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u106	Thank you very much. At its 66th urgent meeting on 6 April 2018, the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the proposal for an information security law as a parent labour force. The representative of the proposer, Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnikar, provided an additional explanation to the articles of the bill. He said that the draft law was in line with all stakeholders and that it was a matter for transposition of Directive 2016/148 of the European Council into the Slovenian legal order, ensuring that it would be more orderly and more secure. Key debtors are providers of essential services, i.e. those on which the functioning of the State depends. Slovenia has also expanded the area of drinking water supply and food supply and environmental protection. Other debtors are digital service providers and designated authorities of the state administration. The draft law lays down minimum safety requirements that a system which is secure under this law is a procedure for the broadcasting of incidents and the evaluation of incidents. It is important that the proposal sets out a coordinating body to coordinate information security by 1 January 2020, which will be the Office for the Protection of Secret Data and then the newly established Information Security Authority. Finally, he stressed the importance of investing in information security. Ms Mira Palhartinger, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, said in her presentation of the written opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service that the purpose of the comments was to contribute to greater clarity and improvement of the bill, while the comments were contained in the amendments, which are relevant and well-founded. The representative of the State Council, Bogomir Nučič, expressed his support for the bill. In the debate, the MP of the Left Group said that the purpose of the bill was good, but he expressed the conviction that it should be dealt with several years ago and that more funds should be allocated to this area. He also stressed the importance of educating politicians and officials to this end. The Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor, he will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Ensuring security in a broader sense is one of the most important tasks of the country in the changing world. The emergence of new complex and interlinked forms of security threats that have arisen in the process of globalisation has raised many questions about the functioning of institutions that ensure the security of the State and its citizens. Cyber security is extremely important, both for the economy and for the whole of society and the country. Today we can no longer imagine our lives without information technology, so the emphasis on strengthening information security has become a necessity. Slovenia is also facing a changing security environment. In today's society, all areas of its operation depend on information and communication systems. In New Slovenia we are aware that the further development of digitalisation will further increase dependence. Information security means data protection and information systems against illegal access, use, disclosure, separation, modification or destruction. The most sensitive are entities that collect, process and store most of the data. These are the Government, the military, financial institutions, hospitals and companies that accumulate large amounts of confidential information about their employees, customers, products, research and financial situation. In New Slovenia we welcome awareness of this and at the same time point to a dilemma. At the moment, the bill is very loose, it does not determine who will be liable, what will be the financial consequences for the municipalities or for other public funds. The whole system will certainly not mean only the good 500 000 euros that are provided for this year in the state budget. These funds will be intended to establish a single national authority to provide information security. What about the rest? System upgrade. The adoption of today's law is far too small for Slovenia to be able to safely prevent any risk of cyberbreathing. This objective will require many more steps, from risk assessments, an inventory of the entire information system, the provision of a system of action, the identification of the responsible person and so on. While it is unfortunate that the bill was not intended to meet all the requirements of today's time on security in this area, there would be nothing wrong and nothing left behind if we did not run ahead of the elections and accept it in the next term, but it is our awareness that abuses in this area are very common and that perhaps even the smallest step towards improving information security is certainly welcome. That is why we will support him in New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Ms Janja Sluga will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u110	In Slovenia we are not aware of the importance of cybersecurity or perceive threats mainly as questions of the safety of the physical or material world. In addition, we are not aware of the global interconnectivity of national information systems and networks, and it is no wonder that since 2008, the number of cybersecurity security incidents has increased several times. For example, in 2017, more than 2 000 security incidents were reported severely, and no one can assess how many incidents were undetected because either the attackers did not detect it at all, or they could not report it. We would also like to draw attention to the latest case of the hacker attack, which also affected part of the economy in Slovenia. In the middle of May last year, the virus caused chaos in Europe within a few hours. The most affected in Slovenia was the New Town Revoz, which stopped production for one day, while in some other countries the so-called critical infrastructure was also affected, and the aim of the European Union is to strengthen the rules on cyber security in order to tackle the growing threat of cyber attacks, as well as to take advantage of the opportunities offered by digitisation. The so-called “Internet of Things” foresees that by 2020 there will be more than 10 billion connected digital devices in the EU, while security incidents such as technical errors and viruses in today's systems can be severely affected. The costs to the global economy caused by cyber attacks each year are estimated at around EUR 400 billion. The European Union has therefore adopted trans-European rules on cyber security, which have been adopted with a view to closer cooperation between Member States on the essential issue of cybersecurity. It sets out the security obligations of basic service providers in key sectors such as energy, transport, health and finance and digital service providers, such as online markets, search engines and cloud services. Each country of the European Union must also appoint one or more national authorities and draw up a strategy to address cyber threats. Member States are required to transpose those cybersecurity rules into national law by May 2018 and to designate essential service providers by December 2018. In the Republic of Slovenia, several proposals for a system-wide regulation of information security have already been prepared in the past, but no implementation has ever taken place. A step forward was taken in 2016 when the Government adopted a cybersecurity strategy that is the basis for the preparation and implementation of information security measures. The strategy proposes a way to organise the cybersecurity system and the necessary measures to achieve the objectives set. Today, the Republic of Slovenia also receives a legal act or law regulating measures to achieve a high level of security of networks and information systems in Slovenia, which are essential for the smooth functioning of the country in all security conditions, provide essential services to preserve key social and economic activities and regulate the provision of cyber defence in Slovenia. According to the law, the undertakings will be providers of essential services from the following areas: energy, digital infrastructure, drinking water supply and distribution, health care, transport, banking, banking infrastructure. Our version of the bill includes food supply and environmental protection on the list of essential services, which is in line with the Critical Infrastructure Act. Organisations, institutions or undertakings that will be recognised as essential service providers will lay down a regulation to be adopted by the Government on the basis of recommendations to be drawn up by the European Union. According to the law, there will also be digital service providers, such as online markets, web search engines and cloud computing. It is the debtors laid down by the European Directive, and according to our proposal the debtors will also be the authorities of the state administration. The debtors will have to comply with the law [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] In addition to key safety requirements, maintain specific safety documentation and take specific security measures. The method of notification of incidents is foreseen and authorities are also identified to be required to report the incidents detected. The proposal also regulates the implementation of the law to be implemented by information security inspectors. The tasks of information security will be carried out by the Office for the Protection of Secret Data by 1 January 2020 and from then on [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] the national authority in the composition of the Ministry responsible for the information society. For these reasons, we will support the proposal of the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u112	Respectable. The proposal for a law supplementing the Information Security Act under consideration today regulates measures to achieve a high level of safety of networks and information systems in Slovenia. However, these measures are essential for the smooth functioning of the State in all security conditions. The proposal is based on the Directive on measures for the high level of security networks and information systems adopted in 2016. So it's an emergency we're already late for. Since it's a brand-new marriage, the news it brings is a lot. To list only some: minimum safety requirements and requirements for notifying incidents for the debtors laid down in this Act are established, the powers, organisation, tasks and functioning of the competent national authority, the single contact points are regulated. So it is a comprehensive regulation of data protection and information systems against illegal access, use, disclosure, separation, change or destruction. The aim of information security is to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information. Information security shall be regarded as confidentiality, integrity and availability of data irrespective of their form or electronicly printed or any other. Thus, the Government and all government institutions collect large amounts of confidential information about their employees, products, research and financial situation. Most of this information is collected, processed and stored on computers and transmitted through networks to other computers. Last but not least, the area of information security has grown considerably and has developed strongly in recent years. That is why this area needs to be built and monitored all the time. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that the demands and tasks for the debtors brought by the bill will foster the awareness of businesses and employees that they need new knowledge in the field of information security and that the proposal will have positive effects in this area. This is an urgent response to the world situation and to us, because without adequate protection we are vulnerable and exposed to cyber attacks. In view of the above, in the Desus Group we will support the proposal for a law that has already been unanimously adopted on the home working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u114	For the last time today, thank you for your word. Access to the use of information technology is no longer limited to some individuals and to individual development-oriented companies, and is now being applied everywhere. Once upon a time, not so far back, the world was great. If we recently thought that we had little information, we are facing too much serious useful, useless information today. We've got everything at our fingertips. All the information is in front of us. We no longer know what is important and what is not, what is true and what is wrong. The bill on information security is a law that many say came too late and is significantly more than the above. Cyber attacks are increasingly referred to, and cyber threats are not cyber defence. It contains provisions and legal frameworks, how and how to ensure the protection of networks and information systems, which constitute a backbone for the smooth functioning of every modern country, among which Slovenia certainly belongs and the key modern social and economic systems. The proposed law is thus a response to the adopted directive with the aim and intention of ensuring a high level of safety of networks and information systems in the European Union. The system is regulated in the field of information security, both strategic and operational national systems. And in a way, it means a step forward, since 2016, the adopted cybersecurity strategies. The area, the notification of incidents and competences and tasks and the organisation of the responsible national authority, which, as a body within the Ministry, will be responsible for the field of information technology and the information society, shall be regulated. Uniform contact points are foreseen, national incident management teams within the public administration authorities. According to the law, the debtors will be essential service providers in the following areas: energy, digital infrastructure, drinking water supply and distribution, health care, transport, banking, banking infrastructure. Our country's decision is to include food supply and environmental protection in the list of essential services, which is in line with the recently adopted Critical Infrastructure Act prepared by the Ministry of Defence. We estimate that this is a very demanding and complex bill that will have to be put out of the paper in use and effectively antiviral and anti-hack protection to protect our vital organs from viral and other intrusions for the smooth functioning of the country and our society. The Social Democrats will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-16-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the proposal will take place tomorrow 17 April in the framework of the vote. I hereby interrupt the 17th Agenda and the 60th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly and wish you a nice afternoon.
