ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 37th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Dr. Jasna Murgel, Jan Škoberne, Erika Dekleva, Marija Bačič until 2 p.m., Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer from 3 p.m. on, Urška Ban from 3 p.m. on, Violeta Tomić from 17 p.m. on, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, mag. Andrej Šircelj, Dr. Anže Logar, Dušan Radič, Kamal Izidor Shaker, Tomaž Lisec, Peter Wilfan, Franc Jurša by 3 p.m., Mr. Uroš Prikl by 13 p.m., Roberto Battelli, Dr. Dragan Matić from 19 hours forward, Dr. Mitja Horvat from 19 hours forward, mag. Aleksander Kavčič, Miha Kordiš, and between 15 and 20 am, I will be away by myself. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the Council of the Court of Justice to the 15th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda for the 37th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday 15 January 2018 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I suggest to the Assembly that today's meeting be scheduled as called for. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 68 votes in favour and no one opposed. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 37th meeting of the assembly has been set. Procedurally, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u2	Thank you very much. The President, a Member of the question is one of the important mechanisms in the National Assembly as well as in parliamentary democracy and the division of power. Especially for the opposition. And this is for a fundamental reason, because it is only this way and in this way that we can also do our job to warn the Government, propose to it, or question it on a case-by-case basis. In view of the fact that I have been monitoring the work of the National Assembly since 2004, I must say that there has never been anything like it in this government. First of all, missing ministers. As many times as you happen here in this government, it never happened. The President of the Government should have looked into that, too. During the period 2004-2008, especially when we were chairing and when we had only one secretary of state and not two, as is now the case, or even more at the finance ministry, it was clear that there were ministers on the questions sent – with the exception of a business trip abroad. In this government, it happens all the time that they have leave or are absent for some other reason. I have a question for the Minister of Justice, Mr Klemenčič, in November, when this was the case. My question was on the subject of proceedings against Mr Zalar and Mr Fischer. We know how far these procedures are. And to this day, let's say there's no minister. To this day, there's no minister. Today is the third session of the National Assembly, when there is no minister. I don't know, it says on your notice today that he's abroad for such and such reasons. That's probably an excuse, that's an excuse, according to the Rules of Procedure. However, in the past, in previous meetings it was not so. Not only with this minister, but with the other ministers. I am reminding myself that it is not possible to allow ourselves that the Minister is not, say, on leave or because of what, visiting a region or something like that. Once again, I am not talking about today's absence of Mr Klemenčič, because you have formally excused her in accordance with the internal acts we have, but I am also speaking in general, and I am talking about what is now helping me to answer this question in February, when the proceedings against these two gentlemen will become obsolete. That doesn't help me if, of course, the Minister doesn't come to the National Assembly. I understand that it is often possible for a foreign minister to be absent, which is more understandable to me because he has many ways abroad. But the Justice Minister is still away, but it's a little questionable. I propose procedurally, the President, that your services do one analysis or one review in this area for the duration of this mandate, and compare it with previous mandates, and yet somehow point out as President of the National Assembly to ensure the presence of ministers. That's my procedural proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u3	I will first find out, because I have this in the text below, that Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is attending the EU Foreign Affairs Council, is being acquitted of today's meeting, then Mag. Ms Mateja Vraničar Erman, Minister of Finance, meeting of the Eurogroup and Council of the European Union for Economic and Financial Affairs, mag. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice of the Council of Europe's Human Rights Commissioner's Office, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič from 3 p.m., attending the World Education Forum in London, and for medical reasons mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar. That's what I'm saying about those who are missing today. I think that the basic matter is regulated in a business way when such omissions are actually admissible. But I also agree that the basic tool the opposition has is to ask questions from the Members. We can also do such an analysis because such analysis makes sense in such matters. All I can say is that I want the government's full cooperation. At least today there are no border issues, but when they were, I agree. You have warned, and I think this meets the conditions for us to continue the meeting. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, THESE ARE THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this point, I received 43 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. I've already talked about the absentees. The e-club, however, provides an overview of the questions that were not answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Miro Cerar. Mag. Alenka Bratušek, you have the floor to question the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! Mr Cerar, you have managed to lead the country to the largest public sector statement in the history of our country. Who will take responsibility for this? Who in your opinion would have to take responsibility for this greatest sentence in the history of our country? What will you do to prevent chaos in this sentence in the country? Since 2008, our public administration has had a single pay system. Of course, we can wonder if he's good. The fact is, not everyone is happy with him. Practically from the start of implementation there are ideas on getting out of this pay system. Many public sector unions estimate that the profession they represent does not belong to a single salary system. However, it is a fact that since 2008, all governments have been more or less successful in rowing within this pay system for ten years. Your government is the first in ten years, which has started to undermine the single pay system, but of course it has no idea and no solution to what is better than that. In June 2016 you signed a separate agreement with the police when they sharpened the sentence. In March 2017, you and your doctors signed an annex to the collective agreement when they announced the strike. In November 2017, you raised the salaries of directors and directors in public administration to 20%. You wanted SDH administration to raise their wages by 40%. And at the same time, you thought that all the other public servants would remain silent and wait peacefully for the moment when you would have mercy on them too. When you signed an annex with the doctors, the other public servants told you clearly that they expect you to treat them the same way. The nurses are also prepared to strike, the rest of the public sector unions will demand the same, as agreed with the doctors, the SVIZ also expects an increase in wages. We could've read all that back then. He warned me a lot, you didn't pay attention. So what is the government's plan related to civil servants' salaries, and how could you let things get so much out of hand?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u5	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u6	Thank you very much, honourable Member Bratusek. First, let me say that there can be no chaos and there will be no chaos. I think that these tonees may be too dramatic and cause some discomfort, but the fact that a warning line of a large part of the public sector is being prepared is taking it seriously in the government. You know that from the very beginning of the work of this Government, which I am leading, we have a very intense dialogue with trade unions and in general with the social partners. Our government was the one who, after several years of previous years, even the first to establish a social dialogue to talk to employers, workers' representatives and so on. The agreements relate to the gradual release of austerity measures and the elimination of payment anomalies, which has not been regulated since 2008. It is said that our government has actually received all the things in the pile that have accumulated for years and years to the detriment of all those gathered today in strike and to the detriment of our economy, and that is why our country has also sunk into crisis. Now the economic growth that this government has promoted through a number of measures allows us to gradually raise the public sector costs that past governments have been obliged to limit, precisely because of this over-expenditure of the public sector, which the simple economy has not been able to do. We are therefore negotiating with the social partners in a responsible and regular manner. We are in dialogue and, in doing so, proportionately, so as far as possible, we share the effects of this economic growth on public sector employees as much as possible. Let me stress that in the last two years alone, we have increased the mass of salaries in the public sector by 10.7% and the average wage has increased by 7% in these two years. We know that the trend used to be just the opposite. Our government has turned all these trends upwards. Now the appetites are clearly greater at all ends, everyone feels this need because they have been deprived for years and years, but already our government, I stress, 10.7% more for the mass of wages, 7% more for the average wage. The number of employees in the public sector is increasing, gradually and prudently. Where services are most needed, we bring new jobs, in the school area, in the field of health, in the field of social protection. At the same time, the number of employees in the ministries and bodies in their composition, that is to say in the smaller government where we save, we even reduce further. The fact is, therefore, that the Government fully fulfils all the legal and contractual commitments, secondly, that wages and the number of employees are constantly increasing, but in accordance with the ability to terminate almost all austerity measures already in force at the time of our government, other than those agreed on by the two measures agreed for 2018, and that dialogue is ongoing. It is therefore very difficult to understand these extraordinary pressures of unions with enormous demands for additional money reaching almost a billion. But we still take responsibility for it, respect for the unions, and we will talk to them about it. You mentioned a separate line of police officers and a deal with them. This agreement was based on the commitment of one of the previous governments and the written consent of all other unions. It is simply because of previous commitments that our government had to fulfil, we had no room for manoeuvre here. However, despite the wishes of our government, the doctors' strike actually brought this government, forced us to negotiate to ease this sentence in order to enable citizens to have unhindered access to one of the key public health services as soon as possible. The government then adopted a compromise agreement with this professional group, but also a commitment to maintain a comparable position of comparable jobs with doctors. As early as April 2017, we also tabled a proposal to regulate this issue. Also in the event of a firefighter protest, which was not the only one who did not accept a balanced agreement on the abolition of salary anomalies, the government further sought the consent of all other unions. We did not go to some solo action, but we sought the agreement of the other unions, although it was only a matter of minimal changes to the collective agreement for the public sector, and we reached agreement there. In dealing with the current announced professional wave, the Government will act in accordance with its conclusions, legal options and, above all, in the interests of the welfare of the State and its people. We will continue to negotiate strike requirements and seek a fair and fiscally sustainable compromise that will enable public servants to pay in a stable and adequate manner, while ensuring that the economy is able to function smoothly in order to gain employment and increase economic growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u7	It's a Magnificent message. Alenka Bratušek, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u8	However, I think that both I and the Slovenian people deserve a slightly more concrete answer about the sentence that is being prepared or will be implemented. It is, however, the fact that public servants have shown themselves to be a responsible partner in recent years. All wage measures necessary to bring the country out of the crisis have been aligned with them. So whoever wrote to you that there was no social dialogue before, he made a serious mistake or deliberately lied. Apparently, your government has a communication problem. Apparently, the unions don't trust your minister, and they don't see a credible interlocutor in him. To this day, all governments have been able to solve things before there has been such a drastic action as a general statement in the public sector. That's the only thing that says a lot. Then let us touch the Owl’s employees who have been strikers for a month and a half, and you as the head of this service do not act. You can tell us: Why don't you take action? Is Owl such a meaningless and unnecessary service? Are you directly responsible for the strike in Owl? You're obviously playing cards of public-private conflict. You're obviously assessing that this sentence will pay off politically. Closed kindergartens, closed schools, closed health clinics, sweet care, says your MP. I don't think you'll be that sweet for people. Mr. Cerar, the question is: How do you intend to save the country, I repeat, from chaos that can arise from a general sentence? Does this government have any plan to solve the problem? Will you leave this problem to the next government?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u9	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u10	I see, honourable Member, that you do not care about the answer, but you do care to forged political points in this dialogue. And I'm going to say something, because it's very important on a wider scale. Our government has pulled the country out of the crisis, halted the rise in public debt that your government, the enormous increase of the government had previously restored a broken social dialogue or a fact that is not a fiction, but a fact that has increased wages. Over the past three years, wages have gone up, we have coordinated pensions, coordinated minimum wages, provided a minimum pension at a higher level, in short, we have gone just in the direction of helping people who, just during the crisis, have failed to measure a few governments before us, have failed to pull the country out of it, have brought people into a very bad situation. It is true, sentences are forecast, but not nearly in this sense as in 2010, 2012 and 2013, when it came to the serious existential issues of people in the public sector, when we also had sentences involving 80,000 employees, 100,000 employees and similar to the predictions and implementation of which the strike wave was very severe. We've stabilized things. Unlike you, we have settled the situation, we are reducing public debt, we are consolidating public finances, we are regulating this country. Of course, I understand, people want it even faster, even more, but they get more every year, and we're going to have a very serious, responsible conversation with the unions. It is funny, however, that from the perspective of past times, when Slovenia was in a severe crisis, when we were sinking, when we were insolent, when our national silver was sold and so on, we are now discussing what this government has achieved. This government ensures stability, ensures development, economic growth, of course, together with the economy and other stakeholders, and works for all these people in public administration, as well as in the economy, in particular those who receive the lowest income, the lowest pensions, as well as for others, in order to increase their income as proportionately as possible. Of course, we cannot share what we do not have. And that's the point. We must be publicly sustainable. Believe me, I'd rather give more to everyone in all public spheres, including the workers in the economy. I'd like to give them more. But we can give as much as the state can not go into crisis again. And this is now that demagogy, share now what we have, share what we don't have, that we don't, I don't know, win elections or anything, and then we'll ask ourselves again in a year, what happened to us when everything went down. I just don't agree to that. This government will continue to raise wages responsibly, remove the restrictions that have been in the past years, so that it will be better for all but in the long run, so that this will be sustainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u11	It's a Magnificent message. Alenka Bratušek, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u12	I propose that we also discuss why the government of Mira Cerar has led the country to the greatest sentence in the public sector. Now for a few more facts. In 2018, the fifth year will be when Slovenia records economic growth. In 2014, there was 3.1% economic growth in our country, Mr Cerar. Do you know when you took over the government? Do you know when you took over the government? And you pulled this country out of the crisis?Oh, my God! Don't joke! But if it's for the directors, if it's for the principals, if it's for the doctors, it's got to be for the others. And these are the reasons why you brought our country to the biggest strike in the public sector. Despite the fact that we have been recording economic growth for five years, you are still saving on public servants, pensioners, social transfers. Those are the facts. But today it's on the public sector's table. And I think we should talk about it. You have also not said a word about the sentence in Owl, which you are directly superior to, you are responsible for why for a month and a half, you allow employees to strike in an apparently insignificant body, suffering the reputation of our country here. And I could count it. What will you do, how will you proceed and, above all, who should take responsibility for this greatest sentence in the history of our country? I think it's right that we discuss this in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u13	Mag. Alenka Bratušek, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 23 January 2018, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Jelka Godec, you have the floor to question the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u14	Your Honor, thank you very much for your word. Mr. Cerar! According to Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, the Government has done a number of things in this mandate, has taken a number of measures, as well as the Government's conclusions, which have helped ensure that corruption, if seen only in health, has reduced the project's zero rate of corruption in 2015, 2016. However, since we never really get any answers from the Minister, what are these measures, which have reduced the level of corruption in 2015, 2016, I am now referring to you with this question. Of course, by just remembering, an interim report was adopted in November by the National Assembly of Inquiry on the irregularity in the purchase of vascular resistors, which showed that corruption in the health sector allows money to flow, money can be channelled to suppliers who are not directly related to health. It is therefore also a matter of financing other areas with the help of the taxpayer’s money, which was used to obtain, say, veins. According to the Court of Auditors, which has already carried out several audits of public institutions, there are also irregularities in other areas, not only in what our investigative commission shows. It is clear that the money saved on the material, especially because it is leaking because of corruption, could help reduce waiting lines, also help to make more money available to healthcare professionals. I am therefore interested, Prime Minister, in view of the fact that it has been quite a while since the mid-term report that the project was a zero level to corruption in 2015-2016: What are the concrete measures, but really concrete measures taken by the Government, which have helped to reduce corruption in health care in order to increase the quality of healthcare services, to reduce waiting types and so on? Specific measures, with concrete results, the Government's conclusions, whatever you can offer us to believe that these measures, which the Government is constantly talking about, as well as you as Prime Minister of the Government, have really helped reduce corruption, reduce the flow of money from health care and contribute to quality in health. It is hard to believe, because in recent times, as we monitor staff exchanges in hospitals, we see that the Minister does not call on the responsibility of those responsible in public health institutions where irregularities have taken place, even giving consent to the appointment of a director, for example, for whom our investigative commission has given the suspicions of five criminal offences. How do you comment on that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u15	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u16	Thank you very much, distinguished Member Godec. As you rightly said, at the beginning of the mandate, the Government had already adopted a programme of anti-corruption measures for the period 2015-2016. And it is true that we are working all the time in health care to ensure as little corruption as possible in other areas, in short, to reduce corruption to as little a degree as possible. Our leader is a zero level of corruption. Here in the field of health, we have taken a number of concrete and systemic measures. I can't tell you all about this now in a few minutes, but let me say the main things that are important. The Ministry of Health, together with the Ministry of Public Administration, conducts joint public procurement of medicines and medical devices. For all items, technical descriptions and specifications are drawn up which are professionally justified and are no longer written on the skin of a designated provider, allowing for the lowest price and some control in these processes, as we know that one of the most fertile areas of health corruption is public procurement. In 2017, a record of expensive medical equipment was established following a recommendation from the Court of Auditors, an active database from which the burden of individual devices is also clearly evident and the data is useful in planning the purchase of medical equipment, so that it is not possible to reach different criteria here again. Various public contracts are also being prepared, which are thus jointly, controlled, for example, by a common public contract of CT apparatus for all hospitals that have shown such needs. An online application, a common price base, or so-called Intravizor, has been set up to provide insight into and compare the prices of health materials. The data are an excellent starting point in the implementation of the new procurement procedures. It was carried out, as you rightly said, also as a joint public procurement of stents, vascular resistors, to which also the activity of the commission of inquiry led by you, the honourable Member, has made an important contribution. The offer, as we know, has been made by nine bidders. The majority of tenderers who complied with all technical and professional requirements exceeded the maximum price allowed. In view of the suspicion of possible cartel negotiations, an application was submitted to the Competition Protection Agency, which did not establish the reason for the initiation of the procedure. Nevertheless, the process will be repeated and, for the first time, technical standards are actually now in place. Let me tell you, the police don't rest either. This is also clearly an important part of the government's operation, as the government does not have all the leverage to prevent corruption, but it is very important that system-wide measures ensure that the institutions themselves can work effectively through the governing bodies themselves. From 2014 to today, police in the field of detection of corruption in health have sent 24 criminal charges to the competent authorities and more complementary criminal charges for a total of 80 crimes. In the field of health corruption, 52 crimes are currently under consideration. However, in the course of the pre-trial procedure, the specialised State Prosecutor's Office currently has nine cases in which 25 suspects are being dealt with and three large and complex cases against a total of 36 accused are being dealt with in the competent courts. We are certainly trying to prevent and, in particular, prosecute those who have committed corruption if they suspect it. As for Mr Kovacic, who you have here apostrophe that there have been some indications here, these are not even a complaint, but an indication of possible charges. In fact, the Council of the Institute appointed him as V.D. Director on 15 January 2018, we are talking about the General Hospital Celje, but this gentleman will not apply for the February call. So this is simply a situation where there was an urgent need to replace the former director of mags. Faeroe, because he did not prepare or adopt the financial budget on time for just two years. In addition, he caused financial damage to the health care home. When the Council of the Institute adopted the measure, the Government also quickly adopted an agreement on a new procedure, and I predict that this procedure will be properly implemented in February and that a new leadership will be here. I repeat, however, that this gentleman, who is indicated by the indications, has not yet been charged with anything. Since it is from the health institution itself, it was therefore the opinion of the World Institute that it would be able to run this healthcare facility properly during this short transitional period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u17	Ambassador Jelka Godec, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u18	Mr. Cerar, how do you know that Mr. Dragan Kovacic will not apply for a public invitation to Director? So it's true what is said in the Celje Valley, if you want to know exactly who will be the new director of the Celje Hospital. Mr. Cerar, a question for you again. I did not expose Mr Dragan Kovacic, you have now told me who he is, so he will not apply. So it's also a question of how do you know that? That's one thing. If it was necessary to replace the former director, this would only have stopped, Mr Ferjanc, because he did financial damage in a cell hospital. The question for you is: Why did you not seek responsibility at UKC Ljubljana, UKC Maribor, where there was much greater financial damage? But I don't apologize for any small or large financial damage. You suspended Mr. Kopach because he didn't arrange for a child's heart surgery. At least that's what was said in public. No one called him to account for the loss in UKC Ljubljana. The money you have dedicated to UKC Ljubljana by means of an intervention law is intended for suppliers. And this to suppliers, whom we have also identified on the Commission of Inquiry, that they are linked to a certain degree of corruption or to suspicions of levels of corruption. Once again, I ask you: How did common public procurement help reduce waiting lines, save certain money on medical material, which was then intended to shorten waiting lines, patients, burn doctors, nurses and so on? Can you estimate how much there was, how much money there was? The general public order for vascular resistors has failed. The AVK was able to conclude within 15 days that it was not a cartel deal, given the joint interim report of our investigative commission, which had the documents, but did not see any indications that they would start investigating the case. Today, however, hospitals continue to buy vascular resistors if I just stop here at much higher prices than they were on a joint public contract. What, once again, are those measures that have helped reduce [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u19	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u20	As we say, this will have to be presented more precisely by the Ministry of Health, because in a few minutes it is not possible to say everything. For example, the general public procurement for emergency equipment was a safeguard against possible corruption and a total savings of around €3.3 million, that is 30%. That's one example. And these joint public procurements are producing results, and I can't name everyone here right now, but the Ministry will actually have to present the data. With regard to waiting types, all these savings and savings are few, thus obtained, can also be channelled into eliminating waiting periods. But the reasons for waiting days are mostly different. Above all, this is a lack of doctors, then excessive travel between different health care providers and then demographic change and population ageing. Clearly, certain corruption can also occur here. If we detect it, if there are indications, we act immediately, as I said, and you know that the police in addition to the inspectors have been very active in this area. As far as the UKC is concerned, the Government may proceed here in accordance with its powers. We have called, and I myself have called for the replacement of UKC leadership, which later happened, because there have been various irregularities or different suspicions of irregularities that need to be easily investigated. I believe that these investigations are still being conducted either by the Inspector or by other authorities, and I don't know who's doing all this, and I believe they're going to find out everything that was wrong. But the fact was that it was not just some specific action that would seek subjective responsibility, but a situation that was unsustainable. The public, we have lost easy confidence in this institution, so action has to be taken. And there's been an action. So that this government is simply acting on this key, not only are we responding to situations that are critical, and these are huge. Our government has inherited 10, 20 years of bad practices in health management. As you know, we only had to invest 136 million this year just to prevent a collapse of the health system due to past debts. While we allocate funds for waiting species, as we have provided several funds last year, this has already been said several times, we will also provide an additional €11 million in 2017 to reduce waiting lines, in addition to all measures. Many times the Minister spoke about the realization of this. It's not true he doesn't give information. At press conferences and other conferences, it communicates this information, only they need to be heard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u21	Ambassador Jelka Godec, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u22	My procedural proposal is that this topic be discussed at one of the following meetings. Mr Cerar, you say that you and the Ministry have also lost patience with the directors of UKC Ljubljana. I think that today citizens are losing their trust and patience both to the Minister of Health and to you, who still strongly support the Minister in all her failures in the health sector. The health disorder is also due to the fact that the ministry simply does not see, hear or act on everything that is being pointed out today by those who are working in health care, as are patients, as are other citizens. And not that we don't hear the Minister, but you don't seem to hear us or the citizens who are alerting us to irregularities. You said there was a lot of savings in health care. You still haven't told me how many of these savings there are. I have been listening to 3.3 million since 2014. Common public orders, diapers, needles, gloves we have been listening to since 2015. These joint public contracts have brought nothing new, no reductions or savings on medical material. This, as I said, when you mentioned the general public contracts for vascular resistors, failed because suppliers simply offered higher prices than was required by the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Health. And today there are calls for or procurement of this material in hospitals at much higher prices than was required in the general public procurement. Because the Intravizor does not work because the Minister does not act, although she could act through systemic matters when she could give specific instructions to the boards of institutions or the saints of institutions are the supervisory body of the Government, which is the founder of public institutions. President of the Government, waiting periods – I hope you are familiar with them. And, yes, in your mandate, from 2013 to 2017, the number of people who are waiting for an unacceptable length of time has risen by five times. Five times! And the money that runs out for overpayment of material, including corruption, could be used to shorten waiting lines, for services, for health programs. But no! Once again, the Minister has not even read the interim report of the commission of inquiry. She didn't even read it! Mr President, you are nodding, the Minister herself told the investigative committee that she had not read the interim report. In view of the human resources moves he makes, it seems clear to me that he is totally ignoring these cases, as well as those mentioned in the interim report. I think it would be right for such people to be removed from all decision-making functions for a time until matters are clarified, whether they are just suspicions or specific actions.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u23	Ambassador Jelka Godec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 23 January 2018, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u24	Thank you very much, President of the National Assembly. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! You know very well that in Levica we oppose the inclusion of foreign capital in the construction project of the second track simply because Slovenia is able to build this project on its own. This would, on the one hand, maintain the infrastructure and also the profits arising from this infrastructure. This is why we invited you to present to us, or prepare plan B, as we call it, last April, to build a second track without foreign participation. You must have had or tried to have this plan in some way at that time. At the time of the referendum, representatives of both the government and 2TKK claimed that such a plan existed if Hungary’s requirements were unacceptable. At that time, the Director of 2TKK, following the referendum on 25 September 2017, Mr Dragonja, claimed that talks with Hungary would continue, but that if there was no common point where both sides would be able to agree on or reach a common denominator and it would be unacceptable for Members that there was a plan B, which was very simple. At that time, Mr Dragonja said that this meant the missing 200 million euros to be provided from the state budget. On 27 December 2017, you sent an initiative to the National Assembly to conclude an agreement with Hungary, so we asked you to familiarise us with this plan B. Last Thursday came the answer to this question, which says that without Hungary being included, there is no European funding for this project. Since I have no view of the application, I cannot say whether you are bluffing or simply accepting the conditions that put Slovenia in a subordinate position across from Hungary. Why? In such a situation, you have practically placed Slovenia in a corner because, on the one hand, if you do not actually have Plan B, you will give in under any pressure from Orban's demands because they know you have no alternative. On the other hand, if it is true that you went into such an invitation to tender on purpose, it means that you capitulated ahead of those demands. And if this is just a threat to the public to agree under these pressures to go into this agreement with Hungary, it is obvious that there are other pacts in the background. From this, you've easily replaced Luke Koper's office. Now you hear strong hints that you want to give an illegal resignation to the first unionist in Luka, and I think that clearly shows the path he's taking. That's why I'm obviously interested in: Do you really not have a plan B? If the answer is yes, I would like to know: Who's responsible for this? On what grounds did you apply for an invitation to tender defining the participation of Hungary in the compulsory procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u25	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u26	Dear Member Vatovec! The plan to build the second railway track of Divača-Koper without the financial cooperation of Hungary would certainly represent a significant public financial burden for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in the coming years. We went into such a financial structure because it is the least possible burden for our taxpayers. If, like you, we want to finance this from public funds, we should put an extra burden on our people for that amount. That won't be necessary. We'll be able to give more for social, health, anything else we need. The second track project is precisely due to the willingness of these back countries to participate – in addition to Hungary, five other countries – on 4 backs – to achieve a better ranking in the bids for European funds. One key argument was the cross-border importance of the project and also Hungary's intention to participate in the financing of the project. When the case is brought to a standstill in court, there is even a risk that Slovenia or 2TKK will not be able to draw on the EUR 109 million acquired in 2017 from the call for an instrument to link Europe with a blending of financial resources, the so-called blending. Therefore, the Secretary of State of Jura Leben is negotiating intensively with the European Commission. He has recently been to Brussels and has met with representatives of the European Commission. He presented this situation to find a solution, and the process of these talks will continue and will be completed sometime by April of this year. The Republic of Slovenia does not have in its 2019 and 2018 budgets the planned additional funds for higher capital contributions to project firm 2TKK, nor is this further taken into account in the projections of the following budgets. If we wanted to bring this into this projection, then, as we say, our taxpayers would be burdened with some huge money and they would be running out of funds for those much more urgent, existential emergencies. As I said, however, this cooperation with Hungary is important because it benefits already from European funds, the project is cheaper, and more importantly, together with all of this, we are addressing this cooperation with Hungary in this case and also in other cases where we are now working with them as a strategic partnership, with a long-term vision of strengthening Slovenia's economic potential. It is not just a second track, it is a broader story where we can actually bring Slovenia to the map of Europe and the world in transport terms, if we also open this corridor through Hungary, which has always been connected to the neighbouring country of Croatia, and has now decided to cooperate with us. Hungary's participation in ownership and management of the second track is fully in line with the capital investment management strategy of the Republic of Slovenia. I cannot speak of other details of the government's initiative to conclude this interstate agreement with Hungary because it is of a confidential nature. However, you are well aware of this material at the closed work of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission on 11 January 2018, when the representatives of our expert government team were also given an explanation at the closed meeting. You know that the Government will submit this draft agreement to the National Assembly. The agreement with Hungary will therefore be ratified here. Then this will be public, then this will be transparent, as the whole second-track project is public, legally justified, the financial structure is explained, everything is given on the tray, the supervision of civil society is guaranteed by law. So we're not risking anything to hide anywhere. And you Members will decide here whether the law ratifying this agreement with Hungary will be acceptable. And I believe it will. But there's something else I'd like to point out. The argument that you have just given Members of the Left several times, or that you would get the missing funds, for example, if you left the plan to buy new armoured vehicles for the Slovenian Army or something like that, we simply cannot use this as an argument, because in this case it is the funds planned in the A balance sheet of the budget and not in the B balance sheet where funds are planned to increase the country's capital shares. From this point of view and from other points of view, it must also be made clear that cooperation with Hungary takes place by ensuring that anything, for example, Luka Koper, is not privatised in this respect, I have explained this several times. This is about keeping what is Slovenian in our possession. Thus, these risks that you state are not present and you will have Members below, as you have already had at a closed meeting, the full possibility of examining them.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u27	Ambassador Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u28	Thanks again. You said this would all be public, that the National Assembly would accept it. But the fact is, all these procedures are now going undercover. Negotiations with Hungary have been ongoing for over a year and we know nothing about them. There were some indications of Hungary’s demands and did not reject these indictments, and now these records have been closed. But that's not the point. I asked you something essential else. In some ways, you have now confirmed that the scenario will be such that this interstate agreement will be reached, which will have to be ratified by the National Assembly. Under these conditions, as you have now set up, that is, when the representatives of the Government and the 2TKK threaten, if Hungary is not involved in the project, there will be no European funds and the financial structure will be broken down, although all the months before that has been said that it is possible to simply replace these 200 million from the state budget or by increasing the EIB loan, which is also an open option, we will come to the point that you or the Minister will say when he or she is on the committee or elsewhere: "See if you do not ratify this agreement, you will be responsible for the fact that there will be no other track in that country." And here we are talking about a project that is probably the most important infrastructure project in the last decade or two. And here I ask for a clear answer: On what grounds, given that you yourself said that the law does not yet apply, in fact, that there is no clear draft on the agreement, could the representative of the Government in Brussels have signed or made a call in which he clearly committed himself to Hungary participating in the project? The Government did not have this authority and has no legal basis in the law, let alone the thirst of Parliament. And that's the key question here now. If that is true and we have issued such an invitation to tender, you have put the strategic and financial interests of Slovenia at risk. Because it will not be some kind of charitable action by Hungary, but will receive half of the profits of 2TKK, they will have one or the other influence in the Kore port and also on how it will operate with the other track. This is a question and please give this answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u29	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u30	Thank you very much. We therefore agree that the second track for the country is extremely strategic and is in a hurry. Of course he's in a hurry. Every day, while we wait for these diverse poles to make us stand — what? Austria builds a few kilometres of railway that will connect it with Italy and in two years you will only be able to say thank you to us all here and to everyone else and there will be no other track or transport map and not Slovenia. Cooperation with Hungary provides easier access to European grants, entails a public financial burden on budgetary expenditure, says our people, taxpayers, lower risks of project implementation, both financial and the risk of line occupied, this is a risk of demand, as well as risks associated with possible overrun of the investment value of the project, creating the conditions for the creation of a new RFC11 core freight corridor, the initiator and carrier of which is Hungary, and reducing Slovenia's dependence on logistics by competing countries. It is normal to negotiate with the neighbouring country in a discreet manner. Negotiations shall always take place in a discreet manner. Not in front of the cameras. This is a well-established standard practice in such matters. But we keep the National Assembly informed about how this is happening, informing about the content of the negotiations, informing about the process of negotiations. Even in closed sessions, which I mentioned earlier. Let me say that the owner of the infrastructure of the second rail track for the duration of the concession contract will be 2TKK, for which a building right on land will be established. But after this period, the Republic of Slovenia will also become the owner of the infrastructure. Following the termination of the concession, 2TKK will have to hand over the infrastructure to Slovenia, according to the second track, free of charge and in a state that allows it to function smoothly. During the duration of the concession, 2TKK will only be the economic owner of the infrastructure, as the land will remain directly owned by the Republic of Slovenia. We are not giving our land, we are not giving Luke Koper, we are giving nothing, but we are making an economically justified investment in strategic cooperation with neighbouring Hungary, which will bring good both to us and to the other countries, including Hungary and to our taxpayers, who will be so burdened by contributing 200 or some such millions to such a project. And that's the structure. This is now what needs to be done, straining all power. But they're completely inappropriate statements like that, and I need to assess that I've replaced some of Luke Koper's board of directors and so on. It's not my jurisdiction at all, it's completely different organs, so Luke Koper's control council. I've never interfered with that, and I never will. I would also say that, in fact, it is important that Luka Koper participates and I can only express the hope that the administration will cooperate, but I never interfere in such a matter. So I can't agree to such an accusation.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u31	Ambassador Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u32	Of course, I will ask this because the President of the Government has not answered my only question and obviously we need more time to clarify certain things. I would just say that probably the first spring of this project was thrown under the feet by the Minister of Infrastructure when he said we didn't need it for a bunch of years. But once again, you went clearly, given that you haven't even replied to me today, I still can't say for sure, but if they keep Mr Draganje's latest statements, you went to a call where you actually gave up any control over this project, by tying up the acquisition of European funds to the participation of Hungary through all procedures and legal bases. I think it's a very serious matter. You have applied for an invitation to tender without the law being in force without having the authority of any authority or of the National Assembly, and I think this is probably a very controversial business. The other thing is that we need to stress once again that it is not a voluntary or voluntary cooperation of the neighbouring country. Hungary is no charity, just like Orban is not Santa Claus who will give 200 million just like that. Just what you have just claimed in this supplement of the answer is not true. In the case of the project, Hungary would have no or would not have wanted to go to this project, which has certain benefits. The first is that it will have half the profits of 2TKK, while only Slovenia will repay the loans. This is already the first element of unfair cooperation. The second thing is that, despite what you said will remain in Slovenia's property under the concession contract, but you have forgotten that this concession contract will last 45 years and Hungary will have almost half the impact in this company. At least that's how it's been presented so far. By influencing it, it will have an impact on how it is managed and handled and how it is handled by the other track and how it operates. You still have no doubt that it is also behind certain related business in this project, which is also evident from today's visit to the Hungarian delegation in Slovenia, where the representatives of Mola and Gyseva are also. Just the companies that are to be discussed with them. No normal country would agree to such conditions, nor would it agree to the construction of a key infrastructure project in such a wasteland. For this reason, I think that the general debate on this should be held and this madness stopped before it actually takes place. Because this business, as it's been introduced in recent weeks, as the government is known, just stinks. The alternatives are, I will still stress this, balance sheet A, balance sheet B, you've probably already heard of the balance sheet, it's a very administrative process, and there's no serious and impossible thing to do. And Patriam for 207 million could probably give up. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u33	Ambassador Matthew T. Vatovec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 23 January 2018, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Matjaž Han, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, I know it's not easy to be Prime Minister, but... Last week, a lot of dust was raised on the minimum wage, on the proposal of Minister Anja Kopač Dark to raise the minimum wage by 4.7%. I must say, this is the first time in history that this minimum wage has gone above the poverty line. Of course she'll be accepted. I think that the Social Democrats, as well as most in the government, see this as a real and responsible action. Of course, there are indications that the new level of minimum wage is likely to represent an approximation to the average wage or so-called compression, as the economists say, between the minimum and average wages. Social Democrats believe that there is no problem that the minimum wage is so high, the problem is that the average wage in Slovenia is too low. We all know that two thirds of the employees in this country receive a lower salary than the average wage is lower than €1050. It is said that most in the country receive money for a month's work between 600 and a thousand 500 euros. Slovenia has also been in economic growth for several years at the expense of wages and at the expense of economic capacity. The Financial Administration provided information that more money was raised in the budget for this year or in 2017 than in 2016 for 920 million euros. These are abnormal numbers. It is also encouraging that the economy has made €3.2 billion net net net profit, which is 70% more than one year earlier. The results are fantastic, but I don't know why the problem with this minimum wage is. I just don't get it. Because of all this good information, we have a public sector on our feet, a legitimate strike, it is justified to strike because they have for the last eight years given up their salary that the state has come out of the crisis. The problem is not in the medium term, but the problem is in the public sector for us Social Democrats in these lowest wages. And this is where things need to be fixed. Of course, there is also a problem for those employed in the private sector, including those who receive a minimum wage, and especially for all those who receive this minimum wage between the minimum wage and the average wage. I am aware that we are heading towards the end of the mandate, Members of Parliament, Members losing the compass, all of us would like to like it, we are making great proposals to people, even though we know that some things cannot be accepted. However, as a responsible politician, and I know that you are, I ask: What does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia intend to do, if any, by the end of this term in order to improve the net salaries of all employees in the Republic of Slovenia? Even those in the public sector and those in the private sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u35	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Let me give you a little wider picture. We speak as if from now on we need to help raise net wages. Net wages have already increased all these years of our government's work, first through tax reliefs. In 2015, with a novel so-called Zujf, we unloaded the taxpayers with incomes above 1.5 times the average wage. Then, with the new Income Law in 2016, we changed the income scale to relieve the most productive and creative staff, which usually contributes most to the added value. We then adopted measures to address citizens with the lowest income. In 2016, we increased the income threshold for additional general relief, and in 2017 we abolished step-by-step, i.e. not federally establishing additional general relief. In 2016, a tax burden on the part of the business performance wage was introduced. With this we have again unloaded the most productive personnel, improved company competitiveness and jobs in Slovenia. The amount of the untaxed part of the salary for business performance increased in 2017 from 70% of the average wage in Slovenia to 100% of the average wage in Slovenia. In 2018, a specific scheme for workers sent to cross-border labour operations followed by the objective of transfer of knowledge and experience entered into force. Under this scheme, when certain conditions are met, part of the salary will not be included in the tax base of the income from the employment relationship. By the measures provided for in 2016-2017, the Government relieved the work of almost 130 million. In addition, we had recent measures by the Government to raise net wages, for example in 2016. As from January 2016, as many as three additives are no longer counted as minimum wage. The minimum wage does not include night work allowance, Sunday work and work for holidays and holidays. Therefore, workers with unequal distribution may in fact receive higher remuneration. In January 2017, in the context of regular harmonisation, we increased the minimum wage by 1.8%, not only by half percent, to the extent that the statutory minimum harmonisation would amount to. Then, in the negotiations with the public sector unions, a gradual abolition of wage austerity measures was agreed, and as you know, we are also eliminating the anomaly. At this point, as you have rightly found, an open question is the height of this year's harmonisation of the minimum wage. I also believe that our economy is in good shape and that it could be able to achieve more than the statutory minimum alignment with the inflation growth of 1.7% last year. So I am absolutely alone, including the Modern Centre Party, so that this harmonisation is easily placed at a higher level. However, social and economic criteria must be taken into account here, and the interests of the job-giving economy are also said. We must not endanger jobs and break wage relations. We will also allow long-term wage growth to continue with investments, for which this government has done a great deal in this mandate. Also, these negotiations with trade unions, which are now taking place on the basis of these sentences, will be prepared constructively on our part, with appropriate proposals, which must take into account the public finances and the social situation in general, so as not to undermine what we have done, as I have said many times. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u37	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 35th and 36th meetings of the National Assembly. Minister of Justice, mag. Goran Klemenčič should answer Dr Vinko Gorenak's question regarding the trial of former Justice Minister Aleš Zalar and former Attorney General Zvonk Fischer, but is absent today because of his business trip. Therefore, I ask Member Gorenak whether he wants an oral answer or whether he can be written. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I want an oral answer, because Mr Klemenčič answers as you know, in two sentences where he says nothing. But in the time I have, let me remind you again of what I did at the beginning. For a month in November, I started asking what was going on with this procedure. It was pointed out that the courts wanted to process the case, but it also indicated that both gentlemen were avoiding each other. Well, then there was a release judgment in New Town. Complaints are now pending. February 8 or 10th will be obsolete. I do not know how Mr Klemenčič will respond to the next February session because he had double criteria. When it came to Igor Bavčar, he cried out that the heads would fly, but when it came to these two gentlemen, he was quiet, which was unacceptable. I'll insist on the answer I'm asking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u39	The Minister will therefore answer the question orally at the next meeting of the assembly. He will now be Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food. Dejan Židan answered Dr Franz Trček's question regarding the Minister's statement on the decision at a higher level.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u40	Thank you, Mr. President, and a very nice greeting. Thank you, Mr Member, for the question as well. A good greeting to all the other Members and Members and others present. The Member of Parliament is asking me what is the higher level. I need a very clear answer here. The Ministry itself and the Minister have a higher level of government than the whole as well as a national assembly as a whole. I would also like to make it very clear that the Ministry did not participate in the search for the location for Magna, which you asked me, Member. In what way was the location found, why this was the only location we were familiar with in the Government, I think the Ministry of Economy has spoken several times in the National Assembly. I myself have been present in at least one case where the competent Secretary of State, Aleš Cantarutti, has answered this question to the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. It's probably not right for me to quote his words, but according to their standards, it was the only possible location. However, the Ministry was involved in two important phases. The first phase was the preparation of a law on strategic investments in the municipality of Hoče – Slivnica. Here I must say that, after very long coordination, the Ministry's proposal, which was such that if no investment is made, automatically returns to the spatial plan as an agricultural land and also takes place in accordance with the stages. This was essentially taken into account. Our relief measures and the conditions given in the preparation of the municipal spatial plan were also taken into account. Perhaps the most important relief condition that has not been customary in Slovenia so far has been taken into account here was the prior establishment of a new agricultural land. This is not really about the fact that some building land, which is actually in agricultural use as an agricultural use, is only formally renamed, but actually in areas where it is not farmed, is in a rather innovative way, which is already present abroad, but not immediately established by us, brings about a living land, one is called a hedge, it is mostly 75 centimeters of a layer of land that is alive, and within a certain period of time a quite equivalent agricultural land is established. It's done, too. At the same time, I would like to say once again that this has not been the usual practice here so far. Then it was accepted at another location. I expect, however, that the results of this operation will be similar to that of abroad, in order to establish as much agricultural land as is equivalent. Allow me another piece of information that, in all this talk, protects agricultural land, says a lot. According to temporary data from the Agricultural Institute for Agriculture in 2017, agricultural land actually in use increased again by several hectares. Compared to 2010, we see that the number of hectares does not fall, but even slightly increases. Unfortunately, this was not some general situation in the first ten years of our independent country or the first fifteen years, but the present situation is so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u41	I'm an emissary of Dr. Franc Trček, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Look, Mr. Secretary has, of course, seduced the answer to his mill. But maybe he didn't even read my question in detail. Actually, I didn't really ask about Magna this time, even though we could talk about it for a few hours. In fact, I asked you as Vice-President of the Slovenian Government. The government is a collective body. It shall, as a rule, co-decision not by voting. You are the Vice-President of the Government and you make a statement in an interview, which is undoubtedly authorized, that this has been decided on a higher level. And that's problematic. After all, you are one of the most likely future government leaders, where you also invite Levico, and I am asked a question here. If this answer and interview of yours is also in the light of what Mr Cerar said to our Matthew today, when he said, "yes, because you are basically informed of everything that is going on with the second track," then he said, "yes, but then it will be transparent" and his statement that we do not have all the mechanisms to fight corruption, after basic education I am a science and mathematics technician and all the alarms start to burn. And here's the problem. I know pretty much the background of both stories. But to me, for example, the secretary of the MGRT Mr. Cantarutti said: “Yes, Mr. Duck, we would like to tell you if we were asked.” As an MP from Maribor! Fortunately, I learn more about Magna in Austria and Hungary than in the National Assembly. About the second track, almost. And that's kind of a big problem. And that's why I put this question to you. I will therefore take advantage of the business opportunity to have a more serious debate at the next meeting, because we urgently need this because this mandate is already over. I'm embarrassed that this is a lost mandate. I'm not personally embarrassed because I've spent four years here throwing myself at eyelashes, but I think we also need a serious debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u43	Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food Magi. Dean Jedhan, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u44	I can only, honourable Member, say what I have said. I'm trying to act, I hope I can do it, and I hope that you will also notice that I am aware that I have superiors over me. My government is in charge. I'm actually in charge of the National Assembly, which, last of all, elected me. Speaking of superiors, I'm now explaining once again that I understand the government as the body that's in charge with me. Sometimes we have completely uniform opinions, but when the government adopts an opinion, whether it is accepted by the minister or done by the government. This is how I understand the functioning of governments, not only in Slovenia, but also wider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u45	I'm an emissary of Dr. Franz Trček, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u46	Thank you for saying that again. Of course I'll ask you to. I am pleased at least something in this addendum to the answer that we have finally come to what we in Slovenia call the executive power. The government executes what the National Assembly accepts. This is also where this mandate is lost. I do a lot of so-called parliamentary diplomacy, not by some exotic destination, but in countries in the region. Everywhere I come, and somehow I ask myself, I want to know how their parliaments work, what their relations are between the legislative and, in particular, the executive branch of authorities. And I'm going to say that in any comparable country to which I would like to compare myself, there have been no such derogations from the National Assembly, as I have witnessed here for three and a half years. That's what Dr. Gorenak was talking about. But you know that in the neighbouring country that I am closest to, ministers would be so absent from the committee meetings or that the Minister would not represent a decision taken by, say, the EU Affairs Committee in Brussels, or if she did not represent him, she would not come back to report on why she did not represent him because she was in violation of the legislation. This is not the case in some serious countries to which we are to be compared. You know, I'm going to go back to science and mathematics about this debate of authority, of subordination, you know. I see the content government as a crowd that aspires to the Union, not to a section. All our governments have generally been cut off in the best sense by some party interests, from our quotas me in heaven. This is also why we need some serious debate after the fourth century, we need, I'll say, the self-reliance of such self-reliants, who have shared and divided this feud. And then probably in the next government, a minister or a minister, whoever will, I don't know, maybe our Violet Minister of Agriculture, who deals most with it, will be able to speak a little differently from you, mag. He is a Jew, in the sense of insubordination or submission. It seems to me that we need more horizontality and more commitment to some knowledge here. Remember that at the very beginning of Mr Cerar's term of office, I referred to him as a moral theologian, not because I personally would have something against him, but because that proved to be true during my term of office. We need these most responsible functions of people who are capable of more perplexity and cooperation. I hope that we will finally come to this in the general debate, even because it is necessary for someone to run for office in the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u47	I'm an emissary of Dr. Franc Trček, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 23 January 2018, in the framework of the votes. He will now be Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Dejan Židan answered Mr Franz Jurš's question about the disproportionateity of the fine due to violations of the Plant Protection Products Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Let me start like this. The Member of Parliament asked me to comment on a specific case. Since the case is probably not closed, I can't and can't comment on it. He's asking me about a fine for a worse violation of the illicit sale of a plant protection product. My proposal to those who feel that it may not have been properly addressed is to make use of all the remedies. The fact is that, by amending the legislation in 2012, the infringements of the sale and disposal of plant protection products were converted to a group of worse offences, which has not experienced any comment, not by stakeholders or by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The problem is that the wrong, excessive or unnecessary use of plant protection products can also endanger the lives of people, can worsen the quality of living, but can also endanger the animal life, known as bee plagues in 2010 and elsewhere. I think that because of these measures, too, we have managed to reduce the quantitative use of plant protection products in agriculture by half in 20 years. Our new plans are even more ambitious. Despite the high penalties, despite the operation of inspectors in 2017, we found 86 more violations of the Plant Safety Act. For these violations, penalties worth more than EUR 66,000 have been imposed. Let me stress once again, in managing the issue of plant protection products, it is primarily about protecting human health and protecting the environment in which we live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u49	He will now be Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Dejan Židan also answered Mr Ivan Škodnik's question regarding the use of pesticides and the spread of hops in the Think tank.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u50	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Ivan Škodnik, for the question. Allow me to answer two specific questions. The first question was whether one of the products used in hops could be suspected or expected to be classified in a group of carcinogenic or potentially carcinogenic substances over time. The answer is as follows. The definition of certain chemicals, including pesticides, as regards the classification of chemicals, takes place within the European Chemicals Agency. Here, independent experts decide on very strict criteria whether specific pesticides are suitable for use or not. I say this because over the last few years the number of possible preparations has dropped significantly; now I am speaking a little bit of thought, but I think it has even decreased three times. Only 21 active substances are allowed for the production of hops at this time. Of course, honourable Member, perhaps not I, nor anyone else at this time, can reply whether the professional position of these important experts in this important agency will be different over time. In some ways, I also understood whether there was a legal possibility of establishing a green belt or a buffer belt between settlements and agricultural production in its entirety. The answer is yes. This is not what agricultural legislation is talking about, but the new law, the Spatial Planning Act, which has been adopted, makes it possible and has also been the basis for the spatial order of Slovenia, which has already been adopted by the Government on a proposal from the ILO. This specific spatial order provides an opportunity for individual municipalities to establish green, protective or any other belts just in order to improve the quality of people's living, because of their interests, perhaps even because of the quality of living. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u51	Ambassador Ivan Škodnik, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, I have already received a partial response from the Ministry of the Environment last month, one that also applies to this spatial issue, so I thank you for your answer. I have addressed this issue to your ministry in particular because this area in the Thinkinska valley may now be a little more up-to-date because the surfaces of hops have grown a little bit in the last period, and it is probably still planned. There have been various dilemmas, even at this time, as I have pointed out in this issue, that higher subsidy prices have also been conducive to the spread of hops. I have to say that the subsidy prices, as far as I've been checking, will then be able to attach to me or add anything else, are not higher than the other areas. This is not what farmers would decide about, but it is primarily the market price of hops, and if it is the higher price of other cultures, I actually understand that they are dealing with it. However, as far as spraying is concerned, it would be good to find out from other international institutions that this matter will be as toxic as possible, because I think that people will understand and will not so oppose this culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u53	Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food Magi. Dean Jedhan, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, my assessment is similar to yours. The desire to expand hop production is not about the fact that subsidies or direct payments are increasing, in fact they are also very little important in hop production, because there is so much production per hectare that they actually have a purely different direct payment, perhaps even less important role than in the production of any wheat, maize or anything else. The fact is that demand for Slovenian hops is stable, even increasing, thanks to the Hmelar Institute of Slovenia, which works well and is successful in producing new varieties of hops. Perhaps just one more information that you may know, perhaps not, Mr Member, has also come to the Ministry or the competent administration with a very well-founded list of fifteen issues related to their concern about possible new sites. We have taken care of the answers, and if you want, then, after the end of these answers, I will also give you these answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u55	Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food Magi. Dejan Židan will answer Luke Mesca's question about food advice in our super food advertising campaign. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u56	Thank you again, Mr President, for the floor. Thank you, too, Mr Member, for the question. Allow me first to answer your initial question why I am missing from the meeting, knowing when the meetings are. The answer is quite simple. Until now, I also believe that ministers are almost obliged to participate in the Councils of the competent ministers of the European Union. We have no influence on when they are, so even if we know when Parliament will be sitting in the future, when the questions will be sent, we cannot influence the references of the worlds. For example, even when I was missing in December, two of them were very important subjects for Slovenia. The first topic was the presentation and the first starting point of the countries for the new agricultural policy – last but not least through the common agricultural policy Slovenia receives a billion and 100 million euros of the rural development programme and just over 900 million direct payments over a period of 7 years, of course we are fighting to have a favourable situation even further. The second was the removal of unfair trade thresholds for a more balanced food supply chain and a better position for farmers, as Slovenia is also a co-signatory and is also very active at European level with Slovakia and the Czech Republic. Now let me answer some of your questions. The first question I understood was how we understand the position of the World Health Organisation, which also speaks of meat. And I suggest that you pay attention to their additional press release, the World Health Organisation, because they felt that it was not sufficiently understood at first. In this second press release, they wrote very clearly: “A comparison of the risk of developing cancers due to the consumption of red meat and processed meat products by smoking tobacco, alcohol and asbestos is completely inappropriate.” At the same time, the World Health Organization in its additional press release also specifically warned that, on the basis of the data presented, people are not called upon to stop eating meat products, but to be moderate in the use of meat products. This is also the case with national Slovenian recommendations. If you also look at the recommendations we have published at our Institute of Public Health, let's say that this is our most excellent institution. In fact, you will see two things, for the first time, that they essentially advocate a balanced and varied diet, do not exaggerate with any type of nutrients, and for the second time, as regards meat, the recommended meat is identified as a good source of protein with a high biological value, as it contains essential amino acids in a very favourable relationship and as a source of other nutrients, including those that plant foods contain much less, for example vitamin B12. Perhaps the following, as regards information that meat can be an exceptional good source of iron, should be made clear that this is a widely accepted fact in science. Let me also refer to the latest evaluation of the food needs of iron presented by the European Food Safety Authority at the end of 2015, where they point out how good the iron source for the body is meat, in a way that is not found in other foods. Although I have more on this now, but that I don't run out of time, I want to give two more essentially information. I want to say that the purpose of the promotion is not to promote meat consumption but to inform consumers of the quality of meat of local origin. An advantage shall be given if, instead of imported foods, they increase the consumption of foodstuffs of local origin, including in a broader social context. Why does he keep himself informed about the meat? The first sector to agree on public-private consumer education was milk. The second sector, which it has achieved, is probably due to the importance in Slovenia, is a sector of two types of meat. Now we are very close to starting more information on vegetables, fruits, cereals and other products. However, I would like to say here that all this information is possible only if it is aligned with the non-governmental sector. So their initiative must be, and only then will the State with the funding and also follow them professionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u57	Member of the Port of the Moon, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u58	Thank you for your word and a very nice greeting, Mr. Secretary. I am also aware of this additional communication from the World Health Organisation, and I am asking and warning you, in particular, about the following. In Slovenia, according to the Statistical Office, the average person eats 94 kilograms of meat per year. This is more than a quarter of a kilo a day, and this puts us at the top of the world, among the first 20 countries after how much meat we eat. On the other hand, according to various studies, people eat significantly too little vegetables and fruit, the daily intake is expected to be around 60%. And now you, as Minister of Food, because you are also the Minister of Food, not just the Minister of Agriculture, should pay attention to this and just correct this relationship, at least. Now, as a vegetarian, I would recommend something else, let's say you're not advertised meat at all, but you as a minister of nutrition, but you should at least be in a position to correct this relationship. And that's why, for the first time, it bothers me that the country invests a million and a half dollars in an action that promotes food that is already being eaten too much and is also, if you go to the National Institute for Public Health, a risk factor for those civilizational diseases that are also at our top, such as elevated cholesterol, cardiovascular disease, some types of cancer and so on. And here the World Health Organization makes it clear that there is a correlation between the consumption of red meat, especially processed meat and meat. Now your ads look like this. You're running out of iron? And then there's an article about how iron is important and how we find it most in meat, which is not true, of course, as I told you before, and then finally there's a recommendation that you just enjoy locally grown meat. I mean, it's, but, it's not a commercial for locally produced food, but it's a pretty bad article for eating meat, even worse. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u59	Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food Magi. Dean Jedhan, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u60	Thank you very much, President. And thank you, honourable Member, for your questioning. The fact is, for example, thyme contains significantly more iron. However, it is also necessary to take into account the quantities of this spice that can be found in the diet. It is also true that legumes are a good source of iron, but it is also a fact that they contain legates. And that's why I've talked so much about a balanced diet. As far as I know the data in essence, if anything, in recent years in Slovenia there has been an increase in the exact consumption of vegetables, a bit of fruit. This is probably also due to the food policy in which our ministry, I think, is working very well with the ministry, but talking about a healthy diet, this is the Ministry of Health. Of course, I expect a lot of cooperation here in the future. I could use this time for the next one just for a little while. When you said that a million-and-a-half state money is invested – in fact, I am now speaking a little bit of memory, and these information actions, as well as promotions for a three-year period, will be worth about 3 million or something. Half of this is collected by the participating sectors, half by the state, but there is also some general information about food. In any event, there will be no million and a half public money for communication concerning meat, meat products or such and other benefits or disadvantages. However, if I could actually give you a possible proposal, Mr Member, there is already a public debate on the new agricultural policy after 2020, although it is now just 2018, but 2020 will be very close. And when we discussed this on the Committee on Agriculture, the representatives of agriculture, in particular the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, made it very clear that they expect more funding for livestock in future agricultural policy, because their assessment is that the financing of this sector, which is important for Slovenia, is too small. And at least I don't remember a representative of your party reacting to this and presenting that the vision of the Left is different. That is why I invite you on Wednesday, 24th, we have a debate at the European Union Representation on a new agricultural policy. We have invited the High Representative of the European Commission to present their views, and there will be a very appropriate position for individual political parties to present, to present, and to present to ourselves how we specifically picture a new policy and within this distribution of money for new policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u61	Ambassador Luka Mesec, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. First of all, Mr. Minister, thank you for inviting me, I will certainly try to attend. And second of all, don't convince me. As far as I'm concerned, this action is for reasons I've listed and will not repeat them, reckless. The investment in such a promotion is not justified by the use of public funds and I therefore propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on this action and on my proposal to withdraw easily.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u63	Ambassador Luka Mesec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 23 January 2018, in the framework of the votes. We are now moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. Ambassador Marijan Pojbič, you have the floor to ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary! Environmental consensus is a very important document and is, of course, one of the most important documents and a basis for carrying out activities that have an important impact on the environment, i.e. the environment of humans, animals or in general on nature or on a healthy environment. A few days ago there was a meeting of the Committee on the Environment and the Space where a debate was held on the question of how environmental consensus could have been given without an environmental impact assessment. This is supposed to happen in Vransk, where it is supposed to be the decommissioning of old cars, where about 30% of hazardous waste is generated. However, after what I read in the minutes, it is clear that this assessment has been made, but is not yet in force. Madam Minister, I ask you: What are the key components or bases that are necessary and must be designed to allow environmental consensus to be given? And the second question: When is it possible and under what conditions is it possible for the Ministry to withdraw environmental consent to an economic operator if it does not comply with the environmental agreement? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u65	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u66	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, honourable Members, Mr Marijan Pojbič! In the written question addressed to the Ministry of Environment and Space for me, I am therefore not talking about the issue of environmental consensus, but about the procedures for issuing environmental permits. I'm sure you won't be pleased with my answers, but I have to tell you that these procedures are different. Gaining environmental consent is an inappropriately less demanding process, such as obtaining an environmental permit. Technically, investors may also be asked about the requirements for manufacturers of such documentation; otherwise, when adopting municipal spatial plans, there is a procedure that discusses whether a comprehensive environmental impact assessment must be carried out for the spatial order. Usually, when adopting new spatial plans, with the exception of rare exceptions, a comprehensive environmental impact assessment procedure is required, and any changes to municipal spatial plans are sometimes not necessary, depending on the changes to the municipality's spatial order. We have devoted more than two hours to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment on the topics discussed in the introductions. With regard to the written question raised, I will now discuss the procedures for issuing environmental permits. I'm sorry, I'm ready for this, and given the time it's good for me to tell you, maybe even for the viewers something about this. The issue of environmental permits involves three, in some way separate or defined procedures. First of all, the issue of licences for the operation of installations that may cause pollution to cause an environment of greater magnitude, the two are other installations and activities and the three are installations. If I turn to the first one now, that is to say, they issue an OVD environmental permit for the operation of devices that may cause pollution of a larger scale, talks about these procedures of the Environmental Protection Act of 68–81. Article 2 At the beginning of the mandate, the European Union Directive governing the conditions for IED devices was not transposed, and, of course, the Regulation on the types of activities and installations which may lead to pollution of a larger scale is all defined therein. So all those indicators relating to noise, air pollution, water pollution and the environment are defined. Under two, so it is the OVD for operation, other devices and activities, they speak 82-85. Article of the Environmental Protection Act. These procedures are not public, while under number 1 procedures are public, so the public is attracted to the procedure itself. In these proceedings, however, the public is not involved and is concerned with those installations for which this environmental authorisation is to be issued. However, when we talk about establishments, the conditions for issuing an environmental authorisation for establishments are indicated from 86.-91. the articles of the Environmental Protection Act. We are talking about the Regulation on the Prevention of Major Disasters and the Reduction of Their Consequences, under the terms of the slogans, we can somehow define this as SEVESO plants, these are establishments where there is a great objective danger that anything goes wrong in such an establishment and, of course, this is reflected in the wider environment. And in these proceedings, the public must certainly have an insight and a draft decision. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Maybe there's more to it than that.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u67	Mr. Marijan Pojbič, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, it is the issue of an environmental permit, Madam Minister, here we have an understanding, absolutely. I now have one particular question because I come from the congregation of Šentilj. In Šentilj we have a compost in Ceršak. And, of course, according to my information, an environmental permit has also been issued, but the arguments that we should be speaking in the opposite direction so that this composteral could not be issued are as follows. It is composted on an island in Mura, within the Mura, between the sleeves, it is said to be a flood zone, 300 meters away is a water protection area and now in the entire area practically people cannot live. It smells so bad that people can't have doors open, they can't have windows open, they can't sit in the kitchen, and a bunch of these flies of authorities who can carry on with these composting diseases and so on, practically people out there can't make one picnic and so on. That's why I'm asking you this: Is it possible to issue an environmental permit at the Ministry under such conditions as I have now listed for you? This is obviously what happened here, and now there is also a civil initiative, and this matter will certainly come to you at the Ministry. I am sure that this matter must also be examined by the Ministry whether it is an inspector or just who is performing these tasks and to determine, and I have also asked you whether all that should be done after the issue of the environmental protection permit has been granted or not, and whether this environmental protection permit has been granted even legally. That seems to me to be an extremely important question. I'm sure you won't be able to respond to this in any concrete way right now, so I'm asking you, Madam Secretary, to do it to me in some written way, so that people there will also be familiar with whether we are [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u69	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u70	Thank you. Environmental permits have certainly been issued legally, as they can be challenged. And if no appeal has been lodged in the administrative procedure for an environmental permit issued, it is legal. The application itself shall include indications drawn up by an expert subject to an assessment and then, after an environmental permit has been issued, the activity shall be carried out in different areas in different ways. Surely we know quite a few cases when we made visits to such establishments, including ourselves, last year. And I admit, biogas has been the most common problem with the stench. As far as composters are concerned, there were some problems that I know of in the area of Vrhnika. I think that for two years now, which we have actively joined and the owners and operators themselves, so in the composters, have worked hard and have accomplished everything they have been charged with. Certainly, procedures are under way for this particular case of yours, but of course it is necessary to wait for the inspection procedure to be completed in accordance with the rules required by such a procedure to be completed. If we leave a concrete case and speak in general, the findings of the inspection are first given to the owner, the operator of this device to remedy the deficiencies. If it does not do so within the legal time limit or within a certain time limit, the inspection shall decide whether to extend the period if it is somehow assessed that it has not been possible to do so objectively in such a short time, or whether the inspection services make a proposal to withdraw the environmental protection permit. This is at the back in general, while your proposal is under way and inspection procedures are still under way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u71	Ambassador Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Culture of Mr Anton Persak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. The invitation to tender for the selection of public cultural programmes in the field of art for the period 2018-2021 has rightly upset the cultural public. Many organisations have also been reduced to a third of their programming funding, while some recognizable and top-of-the-line practices have been completely out of funding. The problem is not in the results, but in the tender itself. If this is inadequate, the expert commissions cannot do their work satisfactorily. However, calls have been problematic in the past and cultural creators have repeatedly warned about this before the call for a new period, but the Ministry has not taken these proposals into account. The tender criteria were non-lifelike, some even meaningless. Very problematic and potentially even illegal was the identification of the credit rating or financial reference from the private GVIN base rather than using the data from Apes, since GVIN does not even contain all the many data needed. The uncertainties are due to the extraordinary bureaucracy and conduct of the ministry, which cannot conduct meaningful dialogue with cultural workers. It should be noted that programme calls are those that enable these organisations to function more stablely, including employment and allowing applications to other organisations, in particular European calls. The application for calls for proposals, which the Ministry is now offering to non-selective organisations, brings much lower funding, which cannot in any way replace stable funding by the Ministry. The amount of the invitation to tender is also expected to be lower by EUR 286 000, despite the increase in the budget of the Ministry of Culture. The non-governmental sector, which is the most bakery, at the same time extremely recognised abroad, internationally, you are obviously pushing for slow play. That's why I'm asking you: Why did the Ministry not adapt the tender criteria despite numerous warnings and calls? Why did the Ministry of Review decide one of the criteria, the credit rating, for the private base GVIN instead of the public base of Apes? Why have you set a limit on the number of organisations able to obtain funds on the call? What will be the impact of the reduction on the scale and quality of production in the non-governmental sector, according to your assessment? What will be the impact on the social situation of self-employed people? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Peršak will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you for the opportunity to explain at least some things about these calls for proposals. First of all, let me say that, of course, it does not hold that we do not adapt or innovate the criteria. For this invitation to tender too, in view of the experience of past tenders, the criteria have been recast to some extent. All these criteria were further clarified and clarified at the time of the invitation to tender, and we believe that all the uncertainties have been resolved. Of course, it is something that the criteria are always such as to allow for some kind of choice between the projects that have been announced and that is, for those who feel the danger of not being chosen, always a problem. Why did we choose the portal GVIN and not the Ipes? Because it is the opposite, as was said: the GVIN portal is a collection portal, which also includes the data of other publishers of this data, it is said that both the data from the Apes portal and the data from the Ministry of Finance and so on are said to allow for a wider review. And the Ministry used this same portal in the previous multi-annual programming call and there were no complaints in this regard. With regard to the question of why we have limited the number of organisations – the interest was precisely that, on the basis of the assessments of these programmes, we would be able to finance at least roughly enough, but not as low as in the past when applicants received less than 50% of the funds they needed. For example, the previous invitation to tender had a minimum share of 41 %, and now all the shares in the tender ranged between 75 % and 83% of the resources needed. However, I must say that the number of selected programmes in this call is lower than in the previous programming period. And it was in this area that these cases were when extremely low shares were allocated according to the necessary resources. While the Ministry insists that it is better to choose fewer programmes with a greater share of co-financing to enable the programme to be carried out in the way it was reported, not in a substantially reduced form. The Ministry of Culture will be able to run in 2018 on the basis of all public calls – it must be said that those applicants who have now been rejected are still able to run, and some are already on a multi-annual project call and also on a one-year project call. The funds to be distributed on these three tenders are virtually exactly the same as those in 2014, as said in the case of two other tenders. Given that the total number of selected programmes is almost the same as in the previous call for proposals, in particular given that the funds for all tenders in 2018 are the same as in 2017, there will be no impact on the social situation of self-employed persons. Public calls are open to all who meet the conditions and, of course, those who receive higher assessments of the expert commission have the advantage. As you know, the Minister can't influence the outcome, because under the law the Minister can ask the Commission to reconsider, but he can't make a different decision than the Commission has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs. Violeta Tomić, do you request a supplement to the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u76	Yes, of course, as expected, the Ministry is trying to wash its responsibilities somehow and you are voicing that NGOs have the possibility of applying for multi-annual projects and one-year tender projects. But they both don't quite hold. The multi-annual invitation to tender has already been closed, despite calls for them to be made on a regular basis and not at the same time, precisely in order to allow NGOs to drop out to apply for other tenders. One-year projects cannot be compared, neither to the extent or purpose, nor can they replace any more stable funding from NGOs in culture, which is why it is sand in the eyes. As Minister of Culture, you can't refer to professional commissions either, because political responsibility is on you. In short, I'm asking you again: Why didn't you take into account the arguments and recommendations of NGOs, because nothing good can come out of a bad invitation, we can't have good results? You didn't answer me: In spite of the increase in the budget, why has the amount of the call been reduced by EUR 286 000? Do you intend to take action at the Ministry to resolve the situation of the most affected? Does the threat of considerable forgiveness in this sector mean nothing to you; some even threaten to sue? And the end: Will you take political responsibility for weakening and losing cultural potential between non-governmental organisations in culture and for further deterioration of the social situation of cultural workers in this area or should I ask you directly, responsibility for suppressing cultural workers into poverty? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Anton Pershak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u78	First of all, let me explain that all potential applicants who apply for a multi-annual programme call have been warned to apply for a multi-annual project call just because we knew that there would be more applicants than are available for funding and potential beneficiaries of funds, in order to protect themselves and be considered on a multi-annual project call. Many of them have done so, and in this way they will come to the means. Secondly, a one-year project call will be published, as you said, with some delay. It can also generate up to half and more funds than some applicants have received or even more than some applicants have received on the previous call for proposals. Of course, there are other sources. It is easy to say that the Ministry is hiding, but a few years ago a legal provision was introduced into the law, which expressly states that the Minister is absolutely bound by the final decision of the expert commission and cannot change it. This provision is, and until it is amended, it will. Once again, just to increase the possibility of multiple winners on a multi-annual project call and to enable them to receive decent funding, one small, very small part of the funding previously earmarked for a multi-annual programme call was transferred to a multi-annual project. Forgiveness — in many cases, it is for applicants who do not have permanent employment and who work with mostly self-employed people. Once again, I must point out that the total resources for these calls are the same, even a small amount higher than they were in 2014, not too much, but for 14 000. However, I must say that funding for the non-governmental sector increased by more than 2 million and a half between 2014 and 2018.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs. Violeta Tomic, do you request a procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u80	In view of the cultural situation, particularly in the non-governmental sector, and in the light of Minister Persak's replies, I propose that the debate be held in the National Assembly. As far as I know, there is little culture in previous mandates in the National Assembly in this mandate. Mr Matić, as Chairman of the Committee on Culture, I would say that he rarely referred to this committee more often, so that it all happens somehow after the inertia. We have been critical until former Minister Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, but we expected very much from Mr Peršak because it comes from the cultural sphere, but unfortunately we find that somehow culture goes down. Because such a cultural policy will have harmful consequences for creative potentials in culture, especially in the non-governmental sector. A number of cultural workers, however, are being pushed from present poverty to total poverty. Let me point out once again that almost half of the self-employed in culture earn less than the minimum wage, a third of them living below the poverty line. This is the most pervasive part of the cultural sphere, which would need additional support from the ministry, not the push to die on meals. And it is not true, as the minister says, that there are no employees here in the non-governmental sector, that there are quite a few employees, and quite a few, given that employment in the public sector is disabled due to the ZUJF and is hampered. Most cultural money is paid in the public sector. Leaders, those who run institutions, pay their fees in addition to high salaries. And here the ministry could take a closer look at what is happening on the one hand really a great wealth of some who would say domestically, are at the trough and on the other hand a completely unjust life and extinction of cultural creators. In view of the fact that lawsuits and boycotts are also being announced on the occasion of the cultural holiday, I think it is high time that we also discuss this in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 23 January 2018. Dr Dragan Matić will ask the Minister for Culture, Mr Anton Persak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u82	I would like to thank the Chair for her words and to immediately reassure my colleague, Mrs Tomić, that the issue she is asking about will be briefly called for a meeting of the Committee on Culture, where we can have the opportunity to take a closer look at this matter. And if you don't mind, Mr. Secretary of Culture, I'll ask you the following questions. In recent weeks, the media held a public debate between the Director-General of RTV Slovenia and the Ministry on certain aspects of the management of this public institution, which has been publicly exposed in recent periods. In spite of the fact that many have warned that it comes from the types of film and audiovisual producers, the Director-General has been selected on a public call, irrespective of the fact that many have warned that, given the fact that it comes from the types of film and audiovisual producers, there may soon be a conflict of interest in the conduct of business related to private external producers. I ask you, regardless of any other legal fitness when you are appointed to the post of Director-General: Do you control the situation in accordance with legal powers, especially in the light of the new circumstances that have occurred in recent months? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Pershak, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u84	Let me say, first of all, thank you for this question, which, of course, is present in the public eye, and perhaps it is also good to say more about it. In accordance with the RTV Act, the Director-General, as we know, is appointed by the Programme Council and also the Programme Council has the sole competence to assess the appropriateness or inadequacy of the Director's conduct. As we know, because of the autonomy of public RTV, which is also very well-potential with law, the ministry, in fact, or the government here, has almost virtually no possibility. Nevertheless, at the time of Mr Kadunc's appointment, also in light of the Slovenian Film Centre's warning, we have asked the Commission to prevent corruption for an opinion on the possibility of incompatibility of these two positions, the Director's place on the one hand and membership in the world on the other, but the PKK has replied that they are not competent to assess the incompatibility of managers of public institutions, but only as regards the incompatibilability of the official. In her opinion, however, she also pointed out that the official must draw the attention of the chairman to this possible conflict, in which case the chairman is of course the director, on the one hand, and on the other hand he is the President of the Council. On the basis of this opinion, the KPK, which therefore concludes that the decision on the existence of a conflict of interest in the official person under the authority of the chairman of this person, sent this opinion to the Ministry of Culture to the President of the SFC and to the President of the RTV Programme Board and the Supervisory Board of the RTV Slovenia. KPK then informed the Ministry of Culture that it had received a statement of alleged conflict of interest between Mr Igor Kadunc, who, at the same time as we know, was the Director-General of RTV, and asked us to explain to him whether, in the case of the SFC Council, he was the managing authority of that agency and whether the sectoral legislation contained any right as to non-compatibilities or conflicts of interest in this situation and whether the members of the Board of the Agency might decide on business cooperation and financing with other companies or associations. The Ministry replied with a letter explaining first that we had already asked them for an opinion on the possible conflict of interest and that we had also informed the President, said Mr Kadunc, that the President of the Council of the SFC and himself had been asked to do so. However, the Ministry of Culture replied to the Commission that, in accordance with the tendering and public call procedures on the basis of which the SFC allocates public funds, it explained that the members of the SFC Council do not participate in these decisions, but rather issue a co-financing decision by the Director or SFC Director of the Slovenian Film Centre. Secondly, the Law on Public Agencies does not explicitly state what a management body is and it can be concluded from this that the Council of the Slovenian Film Centre is not a management authority, because it is its tasks, its tasks of supervision, not the adoption of specific business and programme decisions. Thirdly, the Statute of RTV Slovenia provides in June 44 that, in addition to the legal conditions, the applicant must also fulfil the following conditions for the Director, inter alia, that he must not have ownership shares or permanent contractual contacts with legal persons who are legally connected to RTV. It is clear from this that these conditions do not include an element of possible membership in the Council of the Slovenian Film Centre, nor is the Slovenian Film Centre permanently linked to RTV Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Dr. Dragan Matić, please, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u86	Mr. Minister, I cannot fully agree with you. The RTV Slovenia Program Council monitors RTV or how it is implemented, and this is where we talk about business. Here, of course, the Ministry of Culture has the power to act because it is the institution's right holder in accordance with the Media Act as regards RTV Slovenia. This is particularly important when the following situation comes up, which is very important, and of course I will also point it out. The Director-General of RTV Slovenia has adopted a regulation on the tender procedure for the production of films by independent producers for public cinematography, which states in Article 29(3): “If the Director-General of RTV Slovenia does not agree with the opinions and assessments of the Commission for Project Assessment, he may adopt a decision not following the opinions and assessments of the Commission for Project Assessment, but following the RTV Slovenia programming and business guidelines.” The Director-General himself has laid down in his Rules that he has a discretionary right to determine how this money will be dealt with and the control mechanism is not. Here is just a hint that if he decides to do so, he has to get to know the RTV Program Council and the matter is over, and there is no specific supervision. Since the Director-General is also representing the interests of private producers to the SFC Council, it is stated that he is sitting as a pensioner of one of the AVP's interest associations, Audiovisual production, and since it is notoriously known that the SFC Council is also giving guidance to the management of funding, this is not such an insignificant toothless tiger, the leadership is just carrying out what the SFC Council, the Slovenian Film Centre, imposes, I cannot agree with these issues. I want to know: Does the Ministry of Culture intend to initiate a procedure under Article 39 of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption before the Commission to prevent corruption? This article already prohibits a position that raises doubts about impartiality, in which case I have described it, but it is already clearly incompatible with the function or conflict of interest under the Integrity Act. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Pershak Anton, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u88	As you can understand from the previous reply, the Ministry of Culture has already taken a considerable part in this matter and will, of course, also examine, examine and act in accordance with its competences. It is true, as I say, that, according to lawyers, these powers are very small and, in fact, the ministry is in a situation similar to that of anyone else, not as superior. The area or possibilities arising from this situation, namely that the Ministry has the role of representative or representative of the founder in relation to public RTV, of course this is the case, but these options are, if we are looking at the RTV Act, what the Ministry can actually do and in which areas it can take action, particularly minimal. But we'll check it out.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u90	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Madam Secretary, I welcome you! Let me begin by reminding you, Madam Minister, that last year the New Slovenia Group introduced a new Law on Health and Health Insurance into the parliamentary procedure. We wanted to change the way we paid the wage for workers during their illness. We have proposed to shorten the period during which the employer pays the remuneration from his own resources in cases where the worker is unable to work because of his illness or injury, which is not related to work. The beginning of receiving compensation at the burden of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia is intended to change according to our proposal, from the 31st working day of the worker’s retention on the 16th working day of detention from work. At the meeting of the Health Committee on 24 November last year, I stressed that presentationism is increasing in Slovenia and that this phenomenon of presentation of the law must also be amended. What exactly is presentationism? Let me get this straight. There is an ever-increasing phenomenon, which was also agreed by the Ministry of Health and Health Insurance of Slovenia when sick workers work. This is particularly true for those who are, of course, afraid of losing their job, and especially for those who are independent entrepreneurs, Madam Minister. We both know how difficult it is for an independent entrepreneur to pay his own salary for a disease, it goes for 30 calendar days, which means that this period is about six weeks, and we both know that if an independent entrepreneur does not work, if he does not invoice his products or services, there is no realisation, no payments, and thus his existence is threatened. As it is said, the Ministry of Health and Health Insurance of Slovenia agreed that the appearance of presentationism is a worrying phenomenon when sick workers work. At that time, I addressed the Ministry of Health with the initiative of the Ministry to analyse what presentationism means through your optics and, of course, what it also means as a cost to the health treasury. Madam Minister, I ask you: Have you prepared this analysis on presentationism, and can you present it to us here today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Member, Mr Joseph Horvat, thank you for the question. Allow me to begin by saying a few words about abstention, so that we can understand better, as Mr Joseph Horvat said what presentationism is. Presentism is particularly characteristic when there is an economic crisis in each country and in fact people are afraid for their jobs. Presentism, of course, then appears more, and this was likely, at least from the following data, even in Slovenia during the crisis. I will give some information about this, but mainly from the opposite point of view, from the point of view of hospital compensation or payments, because the presentation of the Health Insurance Office does not monitor such analyses or data is not available in other countries, but the absence of abstention is monitored. Based on experts who find that the normal rate of the hospital stock is between 3.2 and 3.5% optimal somewhere, it is said that this is a rate that ensures that people, when they are sick, really stay at home and benefit from the hospital stock, from those who, for such or other reasons, even when they are sick, come to work. Allow only a few information, such as the situation in Slovenia at present and in the past. We know that we have a solution to the hospital stock regulation defined in the Health and Insurance Act that these solutions are obsolete. For this reason, we have also drawn up different solutions in the new proposal for the Health and Insurance Act. I am thinking, above all, of the fact that we are the only country in the EU besides Bulgaria that does not temporarily limit this disease stock. In most EU countries, this stock is limited to either half a year, nine months or a maximum of one year. But we do know that there is no time limit, of course, that we do not have the value of either the lower cap or the amount of compensation. All of this is regulated in a new way in the Proposal for a Law on Health Care and Insurance. In 2016, the rate of the hospital stock, i.e. the total percentage of lost working days at 4.16%, went 1.97% to employers and 2.19% to health care, says us all who pay our contributions. This was less than in some countries with higher rates, such as Belgium, Sweden, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, which have this percentage above five, and more than in Austria, Germany, Great Britain and France, where this percentage could be said to be optimal somewhere between 3 and 3.5%. This is said to be currently in the middle of Slovenia and is comparable to Hungary, the Netherlands and Spain, which have between 3.5 and 4% after a percentage of lost working days. As I have already said, the assessment of experts and international comparisons is between 3.2 and 3.5%. So if we were to talk about presentationism, then this percentage should be below this percentage. With regard to the figures themselves, we must say that in nine years this trend has increased, since 2008, when the cashier gave EUR 201 million for these refunds, and in 2016, when she gave EUR 287 million. However, it must be said that in the last two and a half years these hospital benefits have increased significantly, by a total of 80 million or in real terms from 13 to 15.16%. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, are you asking for an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u94	Madam Secretary, thank you very much for now. Although, as on one hand, I am grateful that you have presented a rather detailed analysis of abstention, which I have not asked about, of course information is welcome. But somehow it saddens me that you say that neither the Ministry nor the Department of Health Insurance is conducting an analysis, statistics on presentationism, so the phenomenon of workers working sick, especially for independent entrepreneurs, as I said. Representatives of the Department of Health Insurance said at the said meeting, as well as your State Secretary, Mrs Jožica Maučec Zakotnik, that presentation was actually having serious negative consequences. This is where my question comes from. So, severe negative consequences. Why? In fact, the disease stock is increasing, which is perfectly normal. If people who are sick do, then once, as we say at home, strike out and strike in such a way that in fact workers are thrown out of production, out of production, and then there are more serious diseases, which are the consequences of working sick, which of course also burdens the medical bills. That is why this consideration is extremely important. And here, Madam Minister, I really expected you to serve with some numbers or at least some trends and tell us how your ministry is fighting this phenomenon of presentationism.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u96	We would be very happy, as we have done with the Health Insurance Office a very extensive analysis of abstention over the last few years or even since 2009, and it is possible to look at what these data show. For example, the largest part of the abstention, in terms of value, about 50 million waste annually on skeletal diseases, is called musculoskeletal disease. Then they follow psychosomatic diseases, etc. We have prepared and are already implementing certain, purely operational active measures that go in both directions, to reduce this presentation, not to go to work if a person is really sick, and vice versa for a reasonable number of days of abstention with very concrete operational measures. Together with the Ministry of Labour, the Department of Health Insurance, then the Department of Disability and Pension Insurance, with the Institute of Medical Work, we have prepared special protocols such as the way doctors and experts operate in the case of certain hospital conditions, all with a view to preventing and actively cooperating employees by working organisations. Also, you may know, it is envisaged that a single executive body will work together and assess the work capacity of individual employees, saying, now you know that we have this separately at the pension institution, at the health institution, so that the first movements have already been made. While it is difficult to say that these measures have already had a positive impact on the reduction or reduction of these expenditure in the health register itself. While it is noted that EUR 6 million has been made less realistic than planned. We will continue with these measures because we want, on the one hand, the abstention within some of the optimal categories, if it comes to this, to empower the person as soon as possible to return to the same, similar or comparable position of work, it is necessary for employers to do something about themselves, and on the other hand, to avoid such a so-called presentation when people are really sick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Joseph Horvat, you will request a procedural request.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u98	Thank you again, Mr Vice President. Thank you, Madam Secretary. This issue, which we have opened, is an extremely useful issue and, of course, I am taking advantage of the business opportunity to propose to the National Assembly to hold a debate on presentationism, more broadly to discuss the choice of an optimal period for which the employer should pay compensation for the absence of a worker due to illness, and from which day on, the burden should be paid for the absence of a worker to bear the burden of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. Madam Minister, we agree on at least one point. You said it yourself, the solutions are outdated. We, this national assembly, of course the government, are obliged to modernise things. The society is changing, the environment around us is changing and in this context, I am also thinking about the competitiveness of Slovenian entrepreneurship or the competitiveness of the business environment. These novels of the law I was talking about, the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, when we burdened employers and espouses, this idea is actually quite a few years old. Finally you can also find it among the requirements of Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship, these requirements are 121, collected in one book. This requirement, which I am talking about and which is referred to in our new Law on Health Insurance and Health Care, is the third in a row. It is extremely important and I think that, however, it is time for us to make business easier for Slovenian entrepreneurs, espouses and others. I believe that if I now asked the Minister for the Economy of Mr Restovalska for an opinion, I would surely immediately get a positive opinion on this law. Why? Because he understands the environment in which the economy operates. I think that my proposal is justified, i.e. the proposal to hold a debate, a thorough, professional and political debate in the National Assembly, on what period the employer should pay for the absence of a worker due to illness and then the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 23 January 2017, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! Madam Minister, there are increasing numbers of people coming to my office who are failing to find adequate accommodation for poor relatives in their homes for the elderly, because there is not enough free capacity. Only in Kamnik, where I have an office, is waiting for a home of 600 people, and the only home has only 191 beds, of course permanently occupied. However, if families are able to accommodate their relatives in their homes, they are sometimes so far away from home that relatives find it difficult to visit their relatives. The problem of lack of capacity and the remoteness of a suitable home for the elderly is particularly acute when a demented person needs to be provided in a closed section. It is a worrying fact that the latest data on the capacity of homes for older people on your ministry’s website since 2013. I'm asking you: When and how should the lack of free capacity in nursing homes be addressed, address the problem of affordable access, and ensure that the elderly stay close to their relatives in household care? How many free cities are there, and how many are waiting for a place in nursing homes? I ask for separate data for public institutions, concessionaires and, in view of the profitable or non-profit performance of the concession. How's it going with non-concessioned individuals? Due to high prices, day care is practically inaccessible. Many families find it too expensive to stay in nursing homes. Many older ones are therefore not receiving home care despite inadequate home care, and more and more families are deciding to take care of the cheaper Croatian homes for the elderly. I'm asking: Will the elderly and not just younger ones have to leave their homeland for the sake of new survival? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u102	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Member of the Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, thank you for asking. I'm sure you've opened up one of the hot topics, especially in recent times. If, during the period 2010-2012, the problem of the ministry that we had empty homes in the eastern part of the country was largely a problem, this has changed significantly because of the changed situation, so that today, as you have pointed out, we are facing a lack of vacancies in our homes. If we look at the numbers. In public nursing homes there are 13 000 205 cities, in private nursing homes there are 5 000 232 cities and in special institutions for adults 2 000 169 cities, a total of 20 000 606 cities. Free capacity, unfortunately, is not. The Community of Social Institutions shall, in accordance with the law, keep records of waiting species. In the single model – they do not separately, depending on what you want, so separately by type of home, do not follow this way – 8 thousand 101 requests, lists are updated daily and are available on the Community website of the social institutions of Slovenia. Perhaps I would just warn that we cannot talk about private, concessionaires are all in the same way, they are part of a public network, as is the case with public institutions, and they are both the same – they cannot generate profits or surpluses on activities that are the subject of the concession. Both concessionaires and public institutions create surpluses only on market activities. This is the case and the law is clearly laid down in the Concession Regulation. Perhaps there would be general deception to make homes profit in the home - care service. Profits cannot be created by either concessionaires or public institutions because they are so in law. At the Ministry, however, we try mainly with concessions, unfortunately. Then, in later questions, we will talk about how much money is involved in investments, and this year there are 2 million for everyone in the home supply sector. Not to think that a few years ago it was significantly better, but in the last 10 or 7 years it was the most we had, there was 2010 when there were 5 million 900 with the whole. In short, for a very long time this country has been absolutely under-indeed for this. Therefore, we have only decided to tender for concessions, 30 of which were published. 6. 2007 – for 900 cities, it is the first for immediate use already in 2018 and is completed, 224 cities will be provided with immediate implementation. For the rest, with the delay of 2020, since these buildings need to be built, the invitation to tender is still in progress. I would point out, however, that the Ministry of Health is key to the issue of network licensing, as the Health Insurance Office ensures the implementation of health care, and we are now open in the general agreement for 2018 to ensure funding for the extension of existing concessions. Of course, we have an internal agreement with the Ministry of Health, including in writing, and I hope that it will also be ensured by a general agreement that we will not have a repeat of the story, I think that, in 2010, when certain implementation concessions have fallen, no funding has been provided by the Health Insurance Institute. We've had quite a few problems. As far as home aid is concerned. It is absolutely necessary to pluralise services. You know the key law in this area is the Long-Term Care Act. In this coalition coordination you have had a proposal from the Ministry, which has recently been responsible for this. According to my information, the marriage won't go any further. This is one of the things that's open, but it's extremely important. However, there are significant differences in co-financing. The condition is that the municipality has to co-finance at least 50% of the aid at home, but the differences between our municipalities are very high and the price varies, so in fact there are large differences here from place to place. It is also very important how the new legislation will define it, because this price aspect is essential for accessibility to these services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, will you request a complete response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u104	Thank you very much. It is hard to believe that a company that is profit-oriented would suddenly act in some part of its profits in an unprofitable way. In this regard, I am going to ask you questions, which is how I understood you. I'd still like to know: What is the total amount of profits in private profit homes, which I also asked you, in 2014, 2015 and 2016? In view of the various analyses that show that the rate of mortality of older people in profit-oriented homes is also higher than in those in non-profit-oriented homes. All the time I started to study this situation, I was not surprised that concessions were granted to profitable domestic care providers. So, of course, this area will need to be taken a closer look, but there will certainly be more questions to follow. At the same time, I would like to ask this question because, within the mandate of this Government, the competent committee of the National Assembly has considered the allegedly insufficient or poor quality of services in some homes for the elderly and I am interested in: Have you, since this last meeting, initiated any measures for the field of standards or service control? If you fail to answer, then I would like to ask you for an explanation in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Minister Anja Kopač Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u106	Thank you. I'll try to make it up to you. Above all, I think it is important – I really do not want to create a conflict between concessionaires and public institutions. They have a specifics. Concessionaires are usually more expensive because they have the right to amortise services, but they all provide a public service subject to the same rules and must ensure the same quality. So that maybe the assessments you've made, I don't know if they're verified, leave too many flat-rate estimates, but they can have quite painful consequences. For if someone says that mortality is greater in institutions that are supposed to be profitable, and you think concessionaires, it is a serious accusation, which must be valued at least with what. So I would really ask that we keep an eye on such allegations and substantiate them with numbers. However, it may be necessary to say that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities grants concessions under the Social Protection Act, which defines the award of concessions for the management of institutional protection of older persons than public services. Furthermore, the social protection concessions regulation lays down the conditions that the concessionaire must fulfil in order to be able to carry out the activity. The concessionaire can create profits only for activities performed as a market activity, not for activities subject to the concession, as I told you earlier. The same applies to public homes for older people who can also create surpluses from market activities, such as the sale of lunches. If we look at profits: in 41 private homes for older people with concessions there were 2 million 469, 2015 2 million 477 and 2016 2 million 900 surpluses. As far as controls are concerned, this debate was also on the Committee on Food, on the quantity of food, at the time it was agreed primarily with the Ministry of Health and the NEIJ to prepare standards for the nutrition of the elderly. The social inspection was carried out in 2014 by 40 reviews, 2015 43 reviews and 2016 49 reviews. As far as standards and standards are concerned, three regulations are being amended by the Ministry: the Regulations on Standards and Normatives of Social Security Services, the Regulations on the methodology for the pricing of social security services and the Regulation on Minimum Technical Requirements for Social Security Service Providers. If you have any further questions, we can explain in writing, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Erjavac. Since the Minister for Foreign Affairs is absent, please identify yourself in the manner of reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u108	Thank you, let the answer be written, because we hardly see the Minister for Foreign Affairs here. It is, however, a question of government unity when it comes to key foreign policy issues. Two such cases have been particularly critical in the last period, both in the interest of the vital interests of the State of Slovenia. The first was in arbitration, when information on some secret negotiations of the Government comes to the public, then the President of the Government denies them and then Croatia publishes in the press the demants of our President of the Government and at the same time refers to the Foreign Minister, Mr Erjavac, who confirms his initial statements. Such an appearance of inanimateness created abroad is, of course, harmful, especially when it comes to the enforcement of vital matters. Imagine how any negotiation of any government could now take place, it will not be any more, but any government that would like to exercise the actual key strategic interests of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular access to international waters, without any restrictions on territorial contact. That the situation here is even worse, is now further trying to gather, apparently, some political points. The Minister now announces the unilateral recognition of Palestine, which of course means the additional international isolation of the Republic of Slovenia, is totally contrary to all the key interests of Slovenia. If we are aware that now, if ever in history, the Republic of Slovenia should seek out strong partners, strong allies abroad, and thus lose everything in practice. If she thinks she's going to win one, she's very wrong here and she doesn't understand the international situation. Such a cheap collection of political points, of course, means that it jumps to the head in a pool with no water. And this will end very badly for the country of Slovenia, not immediately, but later when it looks for business, investment, all other partners in the international community, and especially allies, when it comes to the exercise of its interests. I therefore ask the Foreign Minister: Why does the state of Slovenia give such a severe appearance of non-unity when it comes to government, as regards the most strategic foreign policy issues abroad? Does it realize how much damage it does to Slovenia in the long term, not only Slovenia, but to its development interests, the well-being of the Slovenian people and its security?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space, Dr Peter Gasperšič, and the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšku. For the infrastructure, I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u110	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You've fixed it. Mr Gasperšič is Minister of Infrastructure, at least I think he is still in that position, and of course he is Minister of Economy. I must admit that even when my colleague spoke before me, a number of people came to the office with questions about the price of so-called gas for heating and autogas. As you know, many of the individual objects that have been built in these can be said to be remote parts of Slovenia, where we do not have pipelines, but we have the most gas food. These smaller blocks, the apartments have gas stores and in these gas stores have so-called liquid petroleum gas, which currently has about 0.9873 euros per litre in Slovenia, the autogas we use to drive, at least some cars that are processed or also serialized, and use approximately the same mixture of propane, butane, of course, pure propane can be used for heating, but now we are talking about the same mixture of liquid petroleum gas, so the autogas price is 0.59 euros per litre, and the price for gas for heating is 0.98 euros per litre. The problem here is multi-layered. Why the question to both ministers? One is a government policy, a excise policy or one that gives environmental benefits. Here we have one problem that's just the opposite of what's on the market. We have a free market, we have a problem, most likely, with imperfect competition. That's what makes these differences. Let me say comparable prices in Austria. The car has a price of 0.65 euros per litre to 0.79. In Austria, too, it is a free market and prices are different from those of the tenderer. For heating gas, the price of 0.54 euros per litre is up to 0.56 euros per litre. So the heating gas, for many objects, for many people who have converted their combustion plants into gas, which put extremely few releases into the air, we can look for a low-carbon society and there is a completely different policy in Austria. In Germany it costs, say, about 0.62 euros per litre of autogas, a gas for heating up even 0.49 euros per litre. So we can see some trends, including some regulatory measures by some governments, that ensure that this heating poverty, as we say, is not so great for many older people or for younger families. I'd like to ask for an answer: What do you think? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, I apologize. Minister of Infrastructure, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Thank you, too, Mr Franz Breznik, for the question raised. I'll try to be brief, then the Minister will have time to answer. I would like to point out immediately in the introduction that the prices of liquefied petroleum gas are not within the competence of the Ministry of Infrastructure. The price of this gas is created free on the market, as with some other energy providers, so the price difference is the price policy of gas suppliers. On the basis of your question, we have checked how the price is structured; and on this basis, I have the data we have obtained from the Internet. Here is the structure of the price of autogas, and here is the structure of the price of liquefied petroleum gas for heating. Here it is clear that this dark blue is the price created by suppliers at the time of purchase; this shows that the main difference is already made at the purchase price of the UP. Then the autogas is loaded with excise duty, tax and some other minor taxes. This premium amounts to 50% of the base, that is the purchase price; whereas in the case of heating gas, these benefits are slightly different. There's no excise duty, but there's some smaller CO2 >-dating, plus VAT. All these supplements are then about 30% per purchase price. As we can see, the benefits for us relating to the purchase price of UNP are higher for autogas than for heating gas; however, the main differences in the sales price stem from the purchase price. That's all you could do for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u114	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! And on my part, thank you for asking. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology is not responsible for the price of autogas, nor for the price of liquefied gas for heating in the Republic of Slovenia. We regulate or regulate the control of prices of goods and services through the Price Control Act, which we as the Ministry of the Economy care about. Currently, we have regulated only the prices of textbooks for a particular class, year or programme under the Price Control Act; and for certain oil derivatives, unleaded 95-octane gasoline and diesel; except for motorways and fast roads. At the latest prices of these derivatives are from 9. 11. 2016 continue to form free on the market. Here I would like to take the opportunity to say that I intend to propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in a short time, the re-liberation of all oil derivatives. Because I believe in the market economy and am a proponent of the free operation of businesses on the market without interfering with the state, I will continue to stress the need to discuss the implementation of market mechanisms. These companies will be given the opportunity to compete on the market and, as has already been said, I will also propose the liberalisation of the prices of all oil derivatives. However, a fellow minister has already responded to the price formation of both gases. If there are questions on the subject of insufficient competition in this area, the Public Competition Agency will have to answer this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Breznik, a request to complete the response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u116	Your Honor, I have asked you this question on purpose. For the first time; I think we have come to a common conclusion that we do not have complete competition in the field of UNP in Slovenia, which is why the purchase value of gas, especially for heating, is as high as you said. That's exactly what this is. Because if we look at Austria, Germany, everything else, why is it happening? [[…]] In this imperfect competition, two, three gas providers have cartel arrangements, which is exactly what the competition guard should establish. People literally gamble because of these monopolistic positions, especially the elderly with low pensions or those who have bought a lot more in a rural apartment in a gas-food building and pay a lot more for heating. So we have not prevented total competition, we have done nothing to complete competition in this area. Now look what's going on. Then a lot of chickens get thrown out, someone comes out of solid gas, then throws it out, they go to heat pumps that have their own problems. Heat pumps, including those with the most air-air, have a COP number between 3 and 4, meaning that for a 10, 12 kilowatt heat pump we need anyway – at least in ideal conditions, at temperatures such as now, God cooks that temperatures are lower – at least 3 to 4 kilowatt electricity per hour. As we know, only about one third of our hydropower plants now come from other alternative sources of less than one third. Most of it comes back from TES 6, so we throw old coal, full hard fuel to produce electricity so people can heat their houses. I mean, it's either completely wrong or it's part of the wrong policy. Dear Minister of Economy, here you have been proven to have an incomplete competition in the field of mainly UPP, gas heating, and that people are victims of this imperfect competition. It's the government that's gonna do it. Will it relax to be able to buy gas from foreign countries, to drive gas here, which is, of course, prohibited because environmental taxes are included here, excise duty. I think there's a much higher environmental tax on heating gas. That's it. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Zdravko Rest, will you answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u118	I have nothing else to add here than that we also have more bidders in this area right now, not just one. However, the public competition agency will have to verify the possible allegations of cartel bargaining.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, maybe you? No, no, no. Thank you very much. Mr. Breznik, please, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u120	I have the right to a procedural proposal to discuss this. Once again, one of the literally cartel deals, there can be no other. German pensioners who have at least twice their pension, Austrian about the same, pay gas for heating, talk about liquefied petroleum gas, at the moment 0.49 euros per litre; Slovenian pensioners or young families living in these apartments, about 0.98 euros per litre. Almost twice the cost of heating gas is paid in Slovenia than in Austria or Germany. Germany currently has a price of 0.49 euros per litre. This is a typical case of past monopolies and a typical case where one agency does not work. This is a typical case that I'm proving to you now. It's not your fault, excuse me, minister; it's your current situation. And I'm reminding you of a typical case, or we'll relax, which is forbidden. An Austrian supplier cannot drive to Slovenia because certain duties are also paid on these derivatives and would then in fact be robbed of these duties. People in Slovenia are literally victims and hostages of cartel arrangements by suppliers of liquefied petroleum gas. This is a typical case I've been investigating and discovering. I hope, Minister of Economy, that you will open this to the government, that you will warn the agency that in this area, at least for the next smoking season, we need to prepare some measures, to put in Slovenia some foreign competition to break this monopoly. Similarly, in all areas, a fellow drug worker identifies some groups of people who have gathered literally holding people in the middle of Central Europe hostage. Eva Irgle, a colleague of mine, once opened the subject of poverty in the heat. Many older ones today literally freeze to death in an apartment because they do not have the means to heat up their apartment honestly, including many younger families. And this is where the deadline is offered if we have at least a little social sense that economic measures will literally bring such poverty out of Slovenian space because it is not necessary. Do you imagine about half the cheaper heating costs for most Slovenian families, right in the outermost areas where they do not have the possibility of connecting to the gas system of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 23 January 2017, in the framework of the votes. Mr Daniel Krivec will ask the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello to the Minister! I ask the distinguished minister: Is the legislation on the placement of difficult, particularly from an environmental point of view, facilities in the area from the point of view of the environmental impact assessment in the Republic of Slovenia appropriate? I have been asking this question because of quite a few events in the last year. We are talking about 2017, when we met several fires on buildings that are very difficult in terms of potential pollution. We're talking about Kemis, we're talking about Ecopollas, we're talking about the waste dump over the Jesenics, and we're talking about the stock of other similar situations that happened last year. All these fires were, at least if we're talking about Kemis and Ecopolas, in environmentally sensitive areas. We are talking about all of these objects being placed right next to some watercourses, which we know is potentially dangerous and sensitive to the pollution of the wider area. The Minister has already answered one previous question, but we are bound by directives; I am aware of that. However, when we talk about the SEVESO Directive, we know that some of the criteria that are clearly being used in the ministry or in that country are very clever. We know that this directive speaks first of the condition of quantity. All applicants applying for the establishment of such a landfill shall give a quantity which does not meet this condition, it shall be said that no environmental impact assessment is necessary. The second condition is usually surface. Clearly, all investors write that the surface will be used to a lesser extent than the Directive requires. And the third condition laid down by the SEVESO Directive is the number of employees. Clearly, all investors give a number of employees that will not exceed this figure in the SEVESO Directive. But then it happens to us that all these areas that have been placed without an environmental impact assessment being made, because, clearly, the directive does not require this, are potentially very dangerous. It is clear that none of the inspectors who supervise this are likely to check below that the number of employees may still be, but the amount of waste is usually very difficult to assess whether they exceed or do not exceed. This means that all these establishments, all these landfills, are not even bound to report under this Directive. They don't have monitoring and they don't have any worse requirements. That's why I'm asking: Is the Ministry considering an update, an improvement in this system of placing hazardous objects in space?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u124	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Mr Daniel Krivec, honourable Member, thank you for the question. The answer to your question will make a number of problems for me, because there are so many different terminology terms in this question that I cannot get rid of them by one regulation alone. These objects, which are named under the SEVESO Directive, are high-risk objects which have obtained an environmental permit years ago. When I myself stated that we have succeeded in this mandate by transposing IED and BAT, this is a sign that companies already authorised to do environmental protection will have to rediscover, first of all, whether their operation is appropriate or whether it will need to be updated in any part by upgrading or by using any devices. This is mainly because fire safety, which is part of the environmental permit, is controlled by the Ministry of Defence inspection services. Of course, we know that in Slovenia there are over a thousand sites with an environmental permit, and in the short term all this review cannot be carried out. If I move now to legislation that regulates the scope of concrete interventions into space. This legislation is certainly multilayered, as it is a matter of building permit, where the conformity of intended interference with spatial acts is checked, the essential requirements of the facilities and compliance with other regulations are met; and the importance of the environmental impact of the proposed construction. So this is about new facilities. It is a complex compliance with the requirements of the spatial act, the rules of the engineering profession and the evaluation and assessment of impacts by environmental, health, nature and other parameters. All of this always depends on the individual case; depending on the type and location of the intervention. But this part is possible in new procedures. We cannot verify all of this with updated legislation for establishments already authorised for environmental protection purposes. The environmental impact assessment is an area of legal regulation in which there is a strong dynamic and complexity in all European Union countries; an area which, in countries with comparable legal systems as we have in Slovenia, raises some fundamental systemic issues. In addition to the environmental objectives, the aim of debirocratisation and reduction of administrative burdens is also pursued in this area, meaning that some of the previously independent procedures are combined. The current case is the new arrangement of the building permit in the recently adopted construction law, which integrates the assessment of environmental impacts into the process of issuing the construction permit; and the new arrangement of the so-called comprehensive permit under the Space Regulation Act, which combines the implementation of spatial planning, construction permits and environmental assessment of the intended spatial arrangements of State importance in a single process. This applies only to buildings built by or through the adoption of the State Spatial Plan. [[…]] However, there are other cases that are not related to construction, but to other types of interventions, where environmental impact assessments will still be carried out in the context of the required environmental agreement when changes are adopted. In this respect, in accordance with the requirements of law, we know two categories of interventions, namely, an explicit set of procedures where the assessment is always mandatory; and a set of procedures where the preliminary procedure determines whether an assessment is even necessary. On conclusion, I would only say that this is one part of the rules where we regulate new procedures; the environmental permits already issued do not apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec, please fill in the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u126	Thank you, Minister for your answer. I think she's taken some things pretty well, but we still haven't touched the point. I was just pointing out that everything on paper is valid in this system. You yourself have said that more than a thousand permits have been issued, but problems are happening to us in these border situations, when the object is not bound to monitoring, is not bound by the SEVESO Directive; it has obtained an environmental permit which was not followed by that rigorous process; it is for establishments which have very dangerous substances in the event of disposal or processing. However, they are always below this limit of monitoring, which touches the major industrial facilities that have these things arranged. If you look over the last period in Slovenia, we have not had any extraordinary events on these facilities, which have in fact all the conditions laid down in the SEVESO Directive. That's why I warned you whether you might have checked to see if our legislation, especially on these border matters, was really appropriate. Because in 2017 there have been too many unloving events that you have solved on paper; in practice they cause problems. Another problem that arises in this respect is whether inspection services have responded adequately in such cases or whether this control is sufficiently successful. For when a person avoids some of the conditions laid down in this Directive, in fact, the visa of another industrial facility, which was bound by its dimensions, the number of employees and the quantity of certain substances, is also in some way bound to report. Here, in my opinion, we have a problem and that is why this issue is also a problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u128	In fact, in your reference, we have resolved this legislation in an appropriate way over the past few years, but of course this legislation does not in most cases affect the environmental permits already issued. The operation of these establishments and businesses is controlled by an inspection, not only by the environment, but also by other inspections. It is true, however, that after the events in Slovenia last year, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space also issued some recommendations, operationally. It was possible to set up a group to verify at least the establishments already authorised by different inspectors at the same time to verify the appropriateness of their operation; but it has not yet been confirmed by the government because of the staff session. It is also impossible to expect from other inspections, and I can only talk about employees at the environmental inspection and at the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to carry out a demanding emergency review throughout the regular work. It is likely that in the future the government will properly arrange and provide these teams to do this field work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mrs Vesna Vervega will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today you have already answered some of the questions raised by the Members about the environmental permit, just one of them, as well as the specific case of the comostar in Cersak, which belongs to the congregation of Šentilj. And yet I'm going to ask you about the problem of this compost. In 2005, the company obtained an environmental protection permit for the treatment of 4 thousand 900 tonnes of biological waste, five years later for 16 thousand tonnes, and the current compost capacity is 36 000 tonnes per year; which represents a third of the capacity of the whole of Slovenia and is the largest among 13 constituents in Slovenia. At the start of operations, the company took over nine types of waste, and today it is 39. The next important argument, which suggests that the issue is very sensitive, is that the complex facility is located right next to Mura and belongs to the Natura 2000 programme and that the Šentilj municipality, where this complex is located, is part of the Mure Biosphere Area for inclusion in the UNESCO biospheric sites list. Civil initiatives and locals also assess that an undertaking carrying out this activity is only an assessment of a civil initiative, in violation of the Biodegradable Wastes Regulation and the use of compost. This is also justified by some arguments, such as: twice a good year ago, there was a fire in the compost area that was too remote to be composted from residential buildings, as, as we have already heard from a colleague, there is an insufferable smell and a mass appearance of flies. That's why I'm asking you now: On the basis of these infringements, can a revision of the environmental permit be introduced and a re-assessment of the environmental impact? Can the closure of this composting plant result? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Minister Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u132	Thank you. Your Honor, Mrs. Vesna Vervega! The theme that you have highlighted is, in many ways, in previous years and probably also in this year, an expression of the operation or non-action of such establishments as the surrounding population perceives; and it is of great importance. The inspection services shall respond to such applications or at least in the reporting of unregulated conditions, so I can say that seven inspections were carried out at this facility in 2017. The inspection has not yet completed its examinations, and there is no final act yet to be issued by the inspection services, so I cannot comment on the particulars in this way. However, it is a fact that, in the operation of such establishments, inspections shall establish a deficiency, and shall issue a mandate to remedy such deficiencies within a specified period of time. This means that this deadline must expire and it is determined whether or not the deficiency has been corrected. And if it has not been removed and the establishment is operating in a way that does not guarantee all that is prescribed in the environmental permit issued, inspections may propose the withdrawal of an environmental permit. At present, it is in law that no one else has that right except after the inspection procedure carried out. As we move on to the subject of the revisions of the environmental permits already issued, it now shows that there is a great interest in all these thousands of sites for which environmental permits have been issued to carry out audits. As I said before, we have the paperwork ready. In addition to our Environment and Space Inspectorate and the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, representatives from the Department of Health or the Office of Chemicals, the Ministry of Infrastructure, which has an important role to play in the field of energy facilities, would also be represented on this team. It is true that we have foreseen eight such groups after eight units where inspection services operate. If the government listens to the proposal and provides assistance to its co-workers, then there would be a great deal of concern whether the plant meets certain conditions or not today, it would be reduced within two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go, Mr. Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! Today, I would like to ask you a question about flood safety in the Lower Savina Valley. We know that the Savinja River flows through the valley and that the land on both shores is a rolling embankment because Savinja was moving all over the valley. In history, when the country was a good custodian, these hills were quite well protected by stone carvings, including wooden thresholds in Savinja itself and on both banks. At the end of time and also high water, these wooden and stone protections destroyed, and these beiges were destroyed. Today, the Savinja River, with every major rain, is twice, three times a year, eating up this vulnerable beach. If we know it's grammes, it's eating at every major increase that leads very quickly and actually doing damage. In 2010, the Regulation on the State Spatial Plan for the regulation of Savinja for the provision of flood-proof urban areas from Ločica near Savinja to Letus was specifically adopted. It's a relatively short section. It's about seven kilometers long. To this day, virtually nothing or very little has been done. Only an idea project is made, but there is no continuation, that is to say, neither the project-technical documentation produced in the PGD or PZI implementation. Even so far as the DIP has not yet been confirmed, this is a document of the identification of the investment project, which is the basis for its inclusion in the state budget. Dear Minister, I ask you: What will be the Ministry's steps on this project? We know that the threat to urbanised areas, which have been built for a long time, is extremely high.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u136	Mr Ljubo Žnidar, honourable Member, thank you for the question. It will be difficult for me to avoid saying that Savinja is an exceptional catchment area in the Slovenian space, and there have not yet been any pests, such as accumulation arrangements. This is particularly important because, even under the European Directive for such watercourses, i.e. the entire extent of Savinja, hydrological-hydraulic studies need to be carried out so that any measures do not make the flood situation on the Savini River worse. The Ministry called for such a study and was prepared, but unfortunately in the revision process the reviewer concluded that it was not technically prepared in a way that would satisfy all the criteria to be defined in such a study. I explain this because we know that a number of measures have been taken to ensure flood safety in the previous cohesion period in Celje, for example, activities are taking place in Žalec, at least for us, i.e. for me as Minister, on two sides, although, according to the mayor's assurances, everything is coordinated. In this part, dry restraints are supposed to be built in order to provide additional anti-floating safety to Savinja, which – I say this mainly because farmers are turning to me – are not coordinated among farmers. Why? Because now, with these climate changes, the need for water to irrigate occurs mainly in years when precipitation is low and the Savinja water table is too low. Thus, the construction of wet restraints or restraints, where this amount of water would be retained, would be of some importance in two respects: to ensure flood safety and also to provide irrigation water. If I'm getting close at last now, believe me, it's not so final in our work, because here we have also isolated the lower part of Savinja, where the local congregations of Laško are important. In this part, we are also working on smaller measures to ensure better anti-flood security. Then we move higher and also reach the municipality of Šmartno, where the mayor and I discussed these performances a lot. For the rehabilitation of the Podvinje dam and even for the Polzelski dam, it is somehow estimated that this rehabilitation would begin this year. I think the agreement to sign this measure is already in preparation. However, Savinja is also upstream and unrepaired to a sufficient degree. This is mainly the part of Savinja, where there have been numerous injuries in the past, including road infrastructures. In such stormy rivers, anti-flooding safety is increasingly difficult to guarantee. If I take my answer away for too long; we cannot talk about Savinja just one part of this watercourse, but we need to take Savinja as a whole. In the last year, however, we assured the congregation of Žalec and some other measures to strengthen the shores and also carried out them. This will continue in this year and next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, please, supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u138	Dear Minister, I don't think we got along very well. I ask you specifically about this section on which the State Spatial Plan is adopted, from Ločica near Savinja to Letus. I am not asking you about all the measures on the Savinja River because I know there are a lot of problems, a lot of needs and so on. I know dry restraints very well, upstream and downstream. Dry restraints are lower than this section, the rest of the system with dams is higher than this section; except for the Polzel dam, which you yourself mentioned. Dear Minister, don't paint me that the Polzel dam will start building this year. I have taken the initiative to complement the budget for investments in the regulation and security of flood security in this section, which you have clearly and loudly rejected by voting. And today you're explaining to me how this year's Polzel dam is going to start building. I don't believe that if the projects haven't even been built yet. Not even projects have been built, but you're explaining to me here today that the Polzel dam will start building in this year. Let us be precise, constructive; I tell you that this is an area situated in two municipalities – the municipality of Braslovče and the municipality of Polzela. This State Spatial Plan was designed solely to protect these urban areas. For when there is a flood, it will not be a natural disaster, it will not be a natural disaster, when all these urbanized areas are watered down, where there is a walled area. I tell you, here I am suing the municipalities of Braslovča and Polzel you will not be able to avoid, because the country is an extremely bad host.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u140	Dear Member, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, you may have misunderstood me. Maybe I was careless, too. The subterranean dam is the one the D.I.P.'s ready for. However, I agree or am aware, as you yourself have stated, that there are still a large number of solutions within the VAT that I have told you that they need to be coordinated or implemented so as not to make anti-floating safety worse in the lower places. And in this part it will be necessary at the Ministry, because the hydrological-hydraulic study has not been completed or has not been carried out in a way that will make it easier for us in the future to review the construction procedures, after the current procedure we have with the operators, to prepare and present a new preparation and conduct of the hydrological-hydraulic study in Savinja. My purpose was not to avoid anything. It is true, however, that at least those who deal with the waters know that it is right for the entire Savinja watercourse, about which I said there are no arrangements, to prepare this study. I'm sorry if I've been too vague in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u142	Dearly noted, I propose that this measure of non-implementation of flood safety be held in the Lower Savina Valley in public debate; for in the air there is an increase in social damage to the Savinja River in two municipalities – the Municipality of Braslovča and the Municipality of Polzel. Urbanised areas for which building permits have been issued in accordance with all applicable legislation will be flooded. Who's to blame? The culprit, however, will be the master, the real owner, the state, the specifically responsible ministry, because it does not actually take care of anti-floating security. For the increased watercourse is not a natural disaster; it happens three times a year, on average three times a year. And three times a year, the water carries this unprotected pebble coast. 30, 40 meters away, however, new housing facilities that are at risk are at great risk. In view of the suspension of anti-floating security insurance, I believe that a public debate should be held.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Mr Luka Mesec will ask the Minister of Finance of Magi. Matei Vranictor Erman. The Minister is absent, so please identify yourself to the way you answer. Here you go, Mr. Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! I will ask the Minister of Finance about the announced privatisation of Hit, d.d., from Nova Gorica, and more generally about the Country's Annual Capital Investment Management Plan 2018, prepared by the Slovenian State Holding. The story, for a short while, is next. On 21 December last year, the government agreed to the SDH Annual Capital Investment Management Plan, which announced, inter alia, the privatisation of gaming activities. In particular, 9.46% of Casino Portorož’s share, 43% of Casino Bled’s share and 20% of Casino Hit Gorica’s share are to be sold. On the basis of this document, which is available on the Slovenian State Holding website, I ask the following questions. For the first time, as she well knows, Article 55a of the Law on Gambling provides that the country must have at least a 51% stake in casinos, such as Hit Gorica. If SDH actually sells these 20%, the share will be lower. I want to know: Why did the government agree to this foretold privatisation, as well as other casinos, without having a legal basis for it? This forecast is illegal under the current regime. Second: What's this next? The first thing was on the privatisation list, on the SDH page is that it takes a change to the Law on Gambling; but obviously we will talk about privatisation first, but we will only talk subsidically about the environmental impact of gambling. For an environment like Nova Gorica, we all know that gambling does not mean only jobs, earnings, the development of local communities; but in the case of unregulated activities, it can pose a high risk of gambling dependence, for the development of monoculture activities in the city. This activity is therefore strictly regulated under current legislation. But we are talking first about privatisation and only indirectly will we talk about what regulation of this activity we want to have. So my second question is: Why isn't the order reversed? And the third question, on the SDH website, says: "Before the beginning or realization of sales, it is necessary to amend the Act on Gambling." That's why I want to know: Does this mean that before or before the sale starts, the sales procedures will start before we start talking about the law or we will talk about it sooner? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mrs Maruša Škopac will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. Minister of Health Maria Milojko Kolar Celarc asks the following questions. With the eHealth project, we have introduced an effective form of electronic solutions in health care, which brings a lot of difficult and effective solutions. The eProcurement project was also successfully launched under this project. This is an electronic system of travel and ordering from primary to secondary and tertiary levels, allowing patients to review all healthcare providers, to choose the most appropriate term and to effectively inform when possible changes in the time limit. All of this is done through an electronic guide, just as the eRecept project had already been established. An e-consignor shall be issued by a doctor who may order the patient to a health service where the waiting period is the shortest; or by the patient himself and shall be coordinated according to the desired regions, institutions or the desired time limit. As part of the eHealth project, an eHealth web portal is also established to provide safe access to eHealth services, with the possibility of e-procurement and access to e-receptions and electronic health data. We have also obtained a national waiting list using the eProcurement system, which automatically refreshes itself with data from waiting periods for each service or individual operator. All these solutions I welcome, because I believe they bring benefits to the patient, to health workers and also to the system level. But I do have a specific question about the electronic ordering of individual services: Are all health services installed in the system? Are such health services that are not yet systematised in the eProcurement project possible? A while ago, I was approached by a citizen who received a psychological guide from a personal physician to his child with a rapid degree of urgency. When looking for a psychologist for adolescents on the eProcurement portal, he did not find this service and, consequently, no information about the waiting line. I also did not find this health service on the website of the National Institute for Public Health. You can only apply to the first psychiatric examination with an e-passenger, which is not the same as the first psychological examination. That's why I'm asking you: Where are the data published on physicians of psychologists who receive young children? What is the waiting time for such examinations? How can you order these checks if they are not included in the eProcurement system? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mary Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. Once again welcome, Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished Mrs Marus Škopac! I'm glad you've seen the benefits of eHealth services for our patients. Let me first explain to you that a set of all types of health services for which travel orders are issued collects – as you correctly stated – the first available dates – the National Institute for Public Health in the so-called codebook of types of health services which this Institute also publishes on its websites. The data for the psychological examination are not yet collected through this system. This service is therefore not designated as a service for which waiting periods are monitored. It is also not in the list of services for which waiting periods are monitored over the system over time. Let me tell you, our health system knows over a thousand 200 health services. Protected persons may exercise the rights of compulsory health insurance by means of forms and documents laid down in the rules on those forms and documents. According to the rules of compulsory health insurance, the task is the document by which the authorised doctor orders laboratory, X-ray, ultrasound, dental, cytotechnical, other investigations, home care, physiotherapeutic services and also services in the field of psychology, logopedia, defectology and other services not related to medical examinations. Article 255 of the Compulsory Health Insurance Regulation explicitly stipulates that the appointment of an authorised doctor to all the above-mentioned investigations, including those in the field of psychology, shall be subject to the so-called work order and not to the notice. This is also why this work is not currently in the eHealth electronic system. The content and form of work are prescribed by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. The rules laid down in the travel document for this examination shall apply to a specific case of examination by a psychologist, which shall be a work order. And that makes it impossible to order electronically. The patient may also check the list of operators in clinical psychology on the website of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, where all contact details of the operators who provide these reviews are also available; they may also receive information. The usual basic information is already provided by the doctor who issues this work order. After receiving this job, the patient shall be ordered for the selected healthcare provider and the original working order form shall be delivered to the operator by mail or in person for inclusion in the waiting list. However, I am pleased to say that in February the next version of the coder of all types of health services will be monitoring waiting periods, it is also said that the release of the free and framework deadlines will be included in additional services and also in the monitoring of waiting periods for patients to be ordered by work orders today. This will mean that, in the same way as all other services on the portal, waiting periods for a clinical psychologist will also be displayed when the operators of this review successfully connect to the central system with their waiting lists. In the future, it will also be possible to report electronically with this task, which will be translated into an e-surcharge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Ms Anja Bah Žibert will ask the Minister of the Interior of the Magi. Spring Györkös Žnidar. The Minister is absent, so please identify yourself to the way you answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Chairman. Since the Minister is absent, I ask for a written answer. We all kind of know what the police's duties and powers are. In doing so, however, it is very important for the police to act on the principles of proportionality, legality and expertise. And I'm sure there should never be double standards here. Only in this way can we put our trust in this important body in the country. That is why I have a very specific question. I was on the so-called Stifany a while ago. It is the year of St. Stephen in the congregation of Šentjernj, where the blessing of horses is traditionally carried out. It's a local-level event already organized by 159. I am pleased that this event is held in public. There were times when they had to do it in secret. But somewhat unusually, this beautiful event, which brings and somehow promotes the values of our nation, interfered with the disproportionate action of the police. When I say domestically, the police were literally pulling the horses and giving them a psych check; or according to the local alcoholization test. They also checked participants with the same measures. A completely disproportionate measure in the light of the event that has been taking place for years and years and in the light of who is attending it and of the importance of this event. It is already very difficult to obtain different documents so that people can come with horses to this event; now such a measure only further throws the bad light and discourages people to participate in the future of this event either as those who bring horses to a blessing, or as those who come to see it, because it is really one of the biggest events in Slovenia. On the other hand, we have an event in Dražgoša, where participants were literally armed. I want to know: How many inspections have the police made with these participants regarding the carrying of weapons, whether they have a firearm or are they entitled to carry weapons? Even if this weapon, which is supposed to be deactivated somehow, is no longer in use, I wonder if the police have checked that it is indeed such a weapon. In accordance with the legislation, the use of weapons in public places that promote fear is prohibited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will ask the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! Waste management shall cover the collection, transport, processing and disposal of waste; including the control of such management. The rules on waste management are adopted under the Environmental Protection Act. The basic Regulation governing the field of waste is the Waste Regulation. The Waste Regulation in Article 30 shall specify the conditions to be met by a legal person or independent entrepreneur by an individual if he wishes to be entered in the register of waste collectors by the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. Among other things, Article 10 of this Regulation states that waste must be treated in such a way that human life is not endangered and does not harm the environment, does not pose a risk to water, air, soil, plants and animals. Arso shall issue a non-hazardous data collection certificate on the basis of the entry into the records of the waste collectors. In my environment there is a collection centre, which has a certificate of collection of waste water, cork, wooden packaging, wood, sawdust, shells, steaks, invert plates and veneers. The collection centre also collects and processes other wastes for which, according to the surrounding population, the company does not have appropriate permits. Right next to the collection centre is a water source from which some households and a larger configuration complex are supplied. There's been several fires in the collection center area. The body and dust particles in the air greatly improve the quality of living of all the surrounding inhabitants. An application for an environmental authorisation has been submitted by the company, which means that it has been operating without authorisation all this time. Following the intervention of all involved in the Ars, they only issued a decision to suspend the procedure until Arso decided whether the intervention in the environment was such that the undertaking needed environmental consent. Madam Secretary, I'm interested in: How is it possible for an entity to register data collectors only on the basis of the application submitted, the accompanying waste collection plan and the evidence that the applicant is the operator of the collection centre? Why was it not required to obtain an environmental agreement before the start of operation for a collection centre located in the immediate vicinity of the water catchment area? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u153	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u154	Mr. President-in-Office. Dear Member, Mr Zvonko Lah, thank you for the question. It is true that the collection of non-hazardous waste can be carried out on the basis of a certificate. However, it is also true that it is for a person, i.e. the debtor, who has requested an environmental permit for the processing of non-hazardous wood waste, that a procedure has been carried out which has been terminated. The decision to terminate the procedure was issued 21. 11. 2017. This date is given because, somehow after that, at least in some of the letters addressed to us, it was concluded that these locals caused or that, on the basis of their applications, this decision to suspend the procedure was issued. I must say that at least to us or to the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, these writings of the landscapers came at the end of December or in early January, and the decision to terminate the procedure was issued earlier. However, it is a matter of resolving a previous question or decision as to whether an environmental impact assessment and environmental consensus should be carried out for this ODS issue process. Since the inspection visited the establishment also on 16 January, the conclusions of the inspection procedure are not yet known, so unfortunately I cannot provide you with these findings. As has already been the case several times before, new procedures need to be carefully and binding for companies already authorised to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u155	Mr. Bell Lah, you have the floor to request an explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u156	Madam Minister, it has also been said here today that we have rules, regulations that set and ensure a certain order. But the question is, how is this done? For example, at one fire, firefighters there discovered that there were about a thousand cubic feet [1,000 cu m] of wood or crevices from waste that was treated with wood; that is, waste windows, doors, and construction wood. And how is it possible that this is operating on this site for several years; because in my opinion, because there are machines, it should be asphalted or concreted with oil hunters, so that the crushing of this wood should be carried out in a closed space with desiccating dust, such as those of the mizzars or more waste management centres. Here it is freely on earth that it happens, and grinds all together; there is a smoke, a rustling, and these wastes are not so dangerous; if it is a worked wood, if it is a building material, such as old doors, windows; plastic and metal is there; and they grind it all together. It's smoking to all people's eyes. I think the ministry should, and I suggest that if the inspector was there, until this is regulated by the rules applicable to such waste treatment, this should not be the case. And that's gotta be the end of it for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u157	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs. Irena Majcen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u158	Thank you. It's not like it's part of the answer. Inspection services are bound to comply with their rules. I admit, I haven't been in the field, I haven't seen this facility, so I can't comment on anything from my knowledge of the matter at all. However, I am aware that inspection services are obliged to follow their rules; even though I have imagined or at least once have I experienced that they sometimes do otherwise. Let me tell you what I've been through, it's a bridge in Sečovljeska Soline, where yesterday he drove a 10-ton truck over it, and the next day he wasn't even allowed to walk across. But the fact is, as Minister, I can't influence the decisions of the inspection services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u159	Mag. Marko Pogačnik will ask the minister of finance mags a question. Matei Vraničar Erman, who is excused absent today. Mr. Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u160	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to ask the distinguished Minister of Finance a question. Since she is excusedly absent today, I propose that my oral question be answered in writing. I am asking the Minister a question regarding the appointment of the Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. I want to know: How did this procedure proceed? Were all the legal restrictions and regulations imposed by the Law on Public Agencies and the Law on Insurance taken into account in this regard? Who was the proposer for the appointment of the Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia? Why did not the Minister herself make the proposal, and why did the Government or the proposer decide to appoint a vice-director for a maximum period of six months and not grant the full mandate in accordance with the Law on Public Agencies and the Insurance Act? Why did the Government directly appoint the Director for a period of six months rather than the National Assembly? Because, according to my behaviour, the Law on Public Agencies and the Insurance Act states that the Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency appoints the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. But the procedures here were different. I respectfully ask the Minister to define himself in writing for this appointment and, above all, to respond to the issue that I have raised in my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will ask the Minister of Finance of the Magi a question. Vervain Erman, who is excusedly absent. Mr. Uroš Prikl, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As I ask the question orally, I also want an oral answer from the Minister. Firstly, the president of the SDH administration recently submitted a proposal for an agreement on the termination of the annex to the employment contract, resulting in an enormous increase in wages due to the December decision of the Supervisory Board. Thank God, or anyone else, that the media pressure was such that it, however, gave up this enormous increase in its income. Secondly, in the light of this event, I would like to remind you that Mr Baloh, the CEO of the so-called bad bank, earned almost 200 000 euros in gross wages in 2016. But that's not all! At the end of June, nearly 365 000 Euros were paid for in the so-called bad bank. At DUTB, i.e. bad banks, it was explained that 120 employees received a salary for last year's work. Suma sumarum means that on average each employee received around EUR 3 000 and EUR 42 gross from this title, while there is an entire contingent of people who also serve on the account of works and tasks in a bad bank with the so-called outsourcing. As a result, how can pensioners, firefighters, nurses, police officers and others be explained and explained that there are no additional resources for their hard-earned pensions, for their imbalances, for their work they do bloodyly every day; whereas in these two institutions increases occur overnight and in inadequately higher percentages for so-called work or suspicious work performance? Finally, the Labour Relations Act states that when determining the worker's level of performance, account shall be taken of the cost-effectiveness, quality and extent of the work done. Dear Minister, who is absent today, I ask: What extraordinary results, more specifically, did the poor bank achieve the economy that its employees receive such a high reward? At the same time, all the provisions governing the so-called corporate governance, especially the independence of both administrations in terms of independent and professional decision-making, must be kept in mind — and I am asking this question. What will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia do in the role of the Assembly, or in some way the supervisor, in terms of regulation, pay the SDH and the bad bank so that these institutions will not become so-called estranged power centres? I sincerely thank the Minister for his oral response.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u163	Mr Jan Mahnic will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Madam Minister, my question concerns the shooting of a brown bear for 2018. We know that it is only a matter of time before a consensus is concluded between hunters, naturalists, foresters and agricultural land owners. Well, last year they did. The expert group you appointed reached a consensus to shoot 120 brown bears in 2018. Then, contrary to this decision, you decided not to shoot 120 of them, but 107 of them; and so you ran over an expert opinion. If I summarize briefly the position of the Hunting Union of Slovenia: "It seems that politics is involved in the matter, since the reduction of the shooting from 120 to 107 is difficult to understand. On the hunting link of Slovenia we therefore wonder what the state wants to achieve with this. What is the purpose of such a envisaged measure? What is the aim of the Ministry of Environment and Space? In view of the anticipated withdrawal, we ask ourselves whether they want to further increase the number of bears. In such planning, it is important to realize that consensus must be reached primarily with the people living in the areas of the bear. The justification of such an increase must be recognised and accepted. The appropriate withdrawal number provides understanding for co-existence with the bear in Slovenia. The hunting union of Slovenia is pleased that the curve of the brown bear population in Slovenia is positive or rising. Despite a significant 33% increase in the brown bear population, hunters in the brown bear population have intervened in recent years. Therefore, the growth of the population, which, according to the results of genetic analyses under the project carried out in Slovenia, would have increased significantly at that time, has now made sense to stop or stabilise. In early October 2017, the results of this analysis were published, which showed that bears were not 450 as predicted all the time; they were between 533 and 598, which is 33% more than in 2007. The research is still under way. Further analyses will show what the situation is.« Madam Minister, we know what the problem is in the area of game; many times in the past year, we spoke because about 15% of the deer's discharge increased. I want to know: Why did you agree, when hunters, naturalists, foresters and farmers agreed that 120 of the number in which the brown bear is fired in 2018, they would choose not to shoot 120, but 107? Where did you get the expertise for such a decision?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u165	Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u166	Mr Jan Mahnic, honourable Member, thank you for the question. The fact is that the shooting regulation is a bear that does not belong within the Ministry of the Environment and Space between the game because the game is governed by the Ministry of Agriculture; it is a protected beast. This means that the Regulation has been published. It was published before the deadline stated by you that professional grounds were given. Life project about the bear has been going on for several years, but we also have other Life projects, including about the wolf and the lynx. The mission of our ministry is to maintain the population of these beasts. Your claim that the NGOs were in agreement with the number of shots fired holds in the part that covers part of the NGOs. However, that part of the NGOs, which cooperates with the Ministry of Environment and Space, makes comments on the regulations we publish. And for example, for shooting a wolf in the 2017 season, because the complaint against the regulation murmured against the Administrative Court and it delayed the implementation of that regulation, the shooting of the wolf in 2017 was not carried out. That some listeners may not feel that this is a decision made by NGOs, a hunting relationship — and all is resolved. In the case of the Ministry of Environment and Space, when the number is determined, there is no shooting for the lynx; for a wolf for which a certain number has also been identified on the basis of the Life Project, the shot has not been carried out. In the case of a bear, it may or may not be such a complaint. As I have already said, this group, which cooperated and identified the number of bears through the Life Project, did not complete its work before the publication of the regulation, which was put into public debate. Their results have absolutely come after this publication. And expect the minister to just take that wish into account, I'll call it wish, it's not going to work. Because there is also no accurate information as to the number of bears now, but it is only to conclude that the population is supposed to be 33% more than predicted so far, the number of bears to be shot increased by the same percentage, that is 33%. This is how the government adopted this regulation, so it will be this year; of course, anything else can be corrected for the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u167	Mr Jan Mahnic, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u168	Thank you, Mr. German. I will quote the first part of the position of the Hunting Union of Slovenia: "Although at the coordination meeting at the Ministry of Environment and Space in early October 2017 on planning for the withdrawal of the brown bear from nature for 2018, which was also attended by the Hunting Union of Slovenia as a representative of key stakeholders, a consensus was reached on the primary numbers in terms of sustainable intervention in the bear population, the Minister for Environment and Space made a different proposal to the Government in early November 2017." Madam Minister, you did not answer me, on the basis of any opinions, assessments and professional grounds, you have decided not to shoot 120 bears, but we will shoot 107. You probably don't belong in the circle of naturalists, I doubt that you're active in an organization like this, and I believe that at least I didn't see you as a hunter. In short, on the basis of what estimates did you decide to reach out to the number that was agreed? If so far it has been assumed that there are between 430 and 450 bears, and now this number shows that there are up to 150 more, we have a problem here. Such decisions, Madam Minister, lead to the fact that we will not control the stock of game, beast, in this case of brown bear. What's gonna happen? People will have more direct and indirect encounters with the bear, the shot will be too small, and nothing will happen but that there will be mass poaching. Bears will fall on the ground, as probably a lot of wolves are already falling, and I don't understand why you're so protective of this species. My question is: Do you realize the consequences? Why the decision to shoot 107 bears instead of 120?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u169	Madam Minister Irena Majcen, you have the floor to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u170	I am not a member of any non-governmental environmental organisation and I am not a hunter, I have no problem with this. If we were to follow a publicly published regulation, we would see that the number of the envisaged shooting of bears in this publicly published regulation, prepared by the Ministry’s professional service, was some over 80 years ago. Following a public debate, the Commission put forward a proposal for an increase. If we were to go to a new publication of a proposal for such a regulation, which means that there would be no shooting in this winter, since there is a public debate first, then comments and coordination with comments for a long time. I've already tried to tell you that last year the NGOs – but not the NGOs you're talking about – are ours, the MOPs, that is, the NGOs who care about the environment – complained about the regulation on the wolf and the Administrative Court stopped the shooting. And even this year, it could – this is certainly conditionalism, no one knows what could have happened – have the same thing happened to the wolf. Therefore, I believe that for the first season, the equivalent percentage of the increased shelling as calculated by the larger population is the corresponding number. I'm sure the commission will still work. In the event of a shooting involving 107 bears, there are also 25 bears with certain losses. When a bear may appear in an environment where it is not normal, it can also be ensured by an oral decision that I am convinced that hunters know this well and can take appropriate action in caring for the handling of bears. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u171	Mr. Jan Mahnic, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u172	Thank you, Vice President, for the word again. I propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that we hold a debate, not only on the Minister's response, but on this issue, because there has not yet been some serious debate in this mandate on the state of the beast in our country. For the situation will one day come to a conflict between the population and the beasts. I'm afraid a bear won't be the problem yet, as will be the problem of wolves and jackals. Above all, the jackal currently monitored appears in Slovenia more and more often. Take a look in Croatia, especially in Serbia, what are the numbers, since the jackal has appeared, I speak mainly for the case of deer, how many stocks have fallen and, above all, how many of these beasts are multiplying. I believe that if there is a consensus that has occurred, there is nothing other than following such numbers. If there are professional grounds to follow a proposal involving the shooting of 120 bears, even if we go, Madam Minister, according to this logic, to increase the firing by as much as – according to the Life Dinalp project – carried out or demonstrated the result of the shooting. This is said to mean that if the population increased by 33% to a further 33% increase in the firing, this could probably mean that if trends were to be the same as they were, we would have a 30 % or more increase in brown bear over the next 10 years. Even now, a bear appears in cramped settlements, encounters people, which is also due to the fact that certain feeding grounds are banned. Because a bear does not have food in a forest where preventive or attractive feeding can be carried out, a bear walks into cramped settlements. What's to fear is that one day people will take matters into their own hands and start shooting bears, wolves, and jackals like on a liquid tape. Given the problem of how many wolves there are — if you look in Kočev, if you ask hunters, I talked to one down a month ago — they burn one piece of deer in the night. This is a trail of 20 to 40 wolves that confiscates one piece of deer, at the same time a higher shot – in many parts justified by damage – which is also questionable, but then because natural withdrawal is such by the beast, of course you cannot follow the seizure that is plotted. I therefore propose that we hold a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u173	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 23 January in the framework of the vote. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will ask the question of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u174	Dear Mr. Secretary! My parliamentary question concerns anti-aircraft protection, an anti-aircraft fence on the Vipava fast road. Due to a strong storm, the weather conditions typical of the Vipavska Valley are often closed and thus prevent the full functionality of the fast road, which is mainly for freight transport – depending on the type of freight transport – from being closed after several days of the year. Due to the frequent closure, the local economy has been fully functional since 2009, and when the last section of Podnanos-Strapped was opened and the road was also then dedicated to transport, there was considerable economic damage. Moreover, even if the road is not closed, the safety of the truck drivers is compromised when the storms are larger. At the very moment of planning this route, i.e. the Vipava Fast Road, it was assured by the State that a strong storm along the road would build an anti-aircraft embankment, but unfortunately not yet today, Mr Minister. I am not asking this question today for the first time, but for the second time. But three years ago, someone said to me in the National Assembly: “The first funds for the construction of this anti-aircraft protection on the flat part of the route are available in accordance with the plan for the implementation of the Dars concession contract in 2016 and then in the following years.” Minister, that's what you told me three years ago. It is said that in 2016 we will start anti-aircraft protection on individual sections of the Vipava Fast Road. It is a big financial contribution, but it is also important that we put something back, especially now, to the Vipavska Valley, as well as to Slovenian motorists as an extremely transit country. That is why today, at the end of this term, I would ask you: When are we going to start with the anti-aircraft shields on Vipava's fast road? And I hope that you will keep your promise. Will you be there by the end of your term?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u175	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u176	Thank you, President, for the floor, and thank you, Mr Jerne Vrtovac, for the question raised. True, we do not talk about this anti-clockwise protection of the Vipava fast road for the first time in this national assembly. Also on the part of Mr German's Member of Parliament, this question has been raised several times. Unfortunately, this anti-aircraft protection has been planned before, but for various reasons this implementation has been delayed. I can say that this year will be done – the first part of these segments. I will explain in more detail in the following answers [[…]] This measure is also among the major projects of Dars itself, which, of course, must also make this investment. Dars has thus done all the necessary work in the past year, has produced project documentation for the construction of this anti-aircraft protection along the fast road through Rebrnice, but since we do not have adequate experience in building such anti-aircraft protection, and also because it is a relatively costly investment and also taking into account the specificity of the storm and the morphology of the terrain itself on this site, the projector has proposed that the three test fields be carried out first. Their implementation is thus envisaged in the areas most exposed to storm strikes. The location of the first test field is planned in the area of viaduct Lozice, almost 700 metres long. The second test field is provided in the area from the Mlake archery to the Podnanos tunnel, where the length of protection will be 620 metres. The location of the third test area is approximately 300 metres between Log and Zemon. Therefore, a total of approximately 1.5 km of this anti-aircraft protection, or about 10% of the overall planned protection, will be carried out. Dars is going to publish a public procurement order for the operator of these test fields, right now, I think they are deciding on the approval or approval of this investment on the Supervisory Board and, as I said, on a favourable schedule of this public procurement, it is envisaged that these test fields will be set up this year. Then, in these test fields, an anemometer measurements will be carried out in three to five cases of severe storm. This will test the wind protection efficiency of real cargo vehicles. By analysing these data, the designer will then definitively confirm the scope, relevance, efficiency and level of protection of the anti-aircraft fences, so that Dars estimates that he will be able to perform these measurements by mid-2019, which will be followed by a call for implementation in the rest of the route. Let me add that the estimated value of the entire protection project is around EUR 33 million, of which Dars will be investing EUR 4 million in this year alone for the implementation of the test fields. I would also like to say that cooperation with local communities, including representatives of motorists, is also ensured by the knowledge or transmission of all information within the framework of the coordination committee of the Vipava Valley accompanying this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u177	Mr. Jernej Vrtovec, you have the floor to request an explanation of the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u178	President, I'm not going to ask for an explanation of the answer, but just to say, okay, I'm happy with your answer, Mr. Minister, as I was in 2015. This time, however, I believe that it has been so long that things will really come true this year and that they will begin with these test fields and then with only a final construction in the following year. It's really about our own effectiveness. I can't believe this has been happening since 2009. You know, since 2009, 10 years of VIP fast road operation, which is in winter, I don't know, a third of a day closed for a certain type of freight traffic. Human lives are also at risk, the safety of drivers, including personal vehicles, I am a daily migrant, I would say, in the Vipavska Valley and when a storm blows in the Vipavska Valley, in addition to the extremely poor asphalt – this can also be said by a fellow Vice-President of the National Assembly on what fast road we are driving – and on individual sections there is a storm. So it is not my complementary question, but to conclude my mandate, Mr Minister, to take you from Shrimp or Vipava to Vertojba for yourself. Alone in the car. And not because of the storms of the sun, but because you will see what asphaltic basis there is, despite the restoration at a certain section, what a asphaltic base it is. August, Mr. Secretary! I suggest, but we can go on a trip together once, and you'll see the state of this Vipava fast road. He doesn't deserve to be called a fast road!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u179	Thank you very much, both of you. Mr. Minister, would you like to respond? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nevertheless, I would like to add something else to this, even on the proposal of the honourable Member, to take a look at this road. I drove myself on this road a couple of times last year. I don't know, otherwise there was no risk of driving because of the storm. I agree, it has taken too long, but I must say on the other hand, that I am happy that this year it will be done – at least on these sections that are most exposed. I also count that, on the basis of these three to five measurements to be carried out by mid-next year, there will be immediate follow-up to completion activities in other parts. I would add that even this year, Dars is planning a huge investment in this work in the reconstruction of this fast road, which we know has actually been overburdened on many sections and is in very poor shape. However, I am not aware that even where it has been restored, the problem of some asphaltic basis would be such that I will also be further familiar with this and, if necessary, Dars will also take steps to remedy such poorly performed repairs. However, as it is said, it is important that this rapid road is also being resumed intensively this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u181	Mr Ivan Prelog will ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the same opportunities as Dr Anji Kopač Mrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u182	Thank you so much for saying that. As the largest provider and provider of institutional protection services in the Republic of Slovenia with 809 beds and more than 400 employees after the adoption of the Regulation on Minimum Technical Requirements for Social Security Providers, adopted by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs found himself in a business-free situation. This Regulation requires the adaptation of infrastructure to the new technical requirements by 2021, of which the requirement for a new standard and the installation of tenants in single and double rooms is the key. The house is currently located in multiple rooms within its capacity. Due to the strategy and the necessity of maintaining existing capacities in the public institution, the institution in its development strategy and in the partially prepared investment documentation envisaged the construction of smaller community-based care for older, adapted dislocated units in the Maribor and Ruše administrative unit. The network of dislocated units in the Danice Vogrinec network, Maribor is planned in accordance with the most modern European and national concepts of community forms of care for the elderly. Due to the common support services of the laundry, kitchen, administration and non-unit information system, it also provides a long-term financial sustainable system that provides the lowest prices for service users and consequently the lowest burden of public finances. The Public Institute of Houses of Danice Vogrinec, Maribor, which is 100% owned by the country, with invaluable knowledge-how represents an outstanding model of good practice in the Republic of Slovenia, and in the planning and development of its network is primarily about protecting public interest, as well as equal opportunities for all citizens to provide accessible and quality care for the elderly. It is also very important that the institution does not have the capacity and, above all, must not have the resources available for investment activity in the construction of dislocated units. The provision of funds for investments in new facilities from the revenue generated by the home as current payments for its services from current users would be illegal and criminal, as current revenues are intended exclusively for the payment of services for them and not for the construction of state infrastructure. For that reason, the distinguished Minister, I ask: In what way and with what time and dynamics will the Ministry of Budgets provide an investment source for the planned networks of units of the House of Danice Vogrinec, Maribor, thereby adapting to the minimum technical requirements adopted by the Ministry itself? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u183	Minister Anja Kopač Dark has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u184	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Member, thank you for asking! The home of Danice Vogrinec is indeed the largest public institution for the elderly. It has 609 tenants and in this year they start finally, we can say, with the rehabilitation of the kitchen and the laundry, and this investment will come to 3 million 771, after a number of transfers we have finally provided the necessary funds for this emergency investment. It wasn't easy. Why not? Last year, the budget was blocked by September and the Ministry of Labour was unable to provide half a million euros, as envisaged, and this year we have only two million euros for all investments in public institutions and next year a million euros. In 2007, if we look at the last 11 years, there were five million 800 in 2007. It wasn't much at the time either. 2014 we had 3 million 516, 2015 – 2 million 296 in this year 2 million and next year only 1 million euros. I'm sorry. Unfortunately, without much more resources, we will not be able to ensure this. A number of public welfare institutions in our country are in a rather similar situation, but this is specific to the House of Danica Vogrinec. We have been talking to them for a long time and supporting their idea of smaller dislocated units. It will be necessary to provide funds for this, only in the light of the current budget would this promise, made from this position now, be unrealistic. However, I expect that the next government will actually have to talk very seriously about investing in homes for the elderly and perhaps other public welfare institutions covered by the Ministry of Labour, because, in fact, with such investments currently available, we cannot provide these things. We are more or less providing emergency funds, I don't know, for 350 thousand euros to separate the 2 million we have. However, if you are counting on about a new home costing, construction, about 5, 6 million – a minimum cost of one home – then, unfortunately, again the concession invitation this year, which I have already answered the previous question, we are in intensive talks with the director of the home and we are looking for solutions. But still, given these investment funds, you can imagine how these things can be realized if we continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u185	Mr. Ivan Prelog, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! I'm sorry I'm not happy with your answer. It is clear that the public institution of the House of Danice Vogrinc of Maribor is in an extremely unequal position with regard to the private sector. In terms of financing dislocated units, I do not believe that this is in the public interest. I ask you, Your Honor Minister: What do you think you should do about it? Thank you for your answer, and please give me a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u187	Thank you. Minister, if you like, you can. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u188	I can give you an oral answer. I don't need to be in writing. If you want, we can also give you a written investment report in 2018 to 2020, we have described all the desired investments in public homes. The fact is that public service in this area of home protection is carried out by public social security institutions and concessionaires. Both must carry out public service in the same way, the difference is that the concessionaire is recognised for part of the depreciation of the investment and therefore has greater flexibility. However, we have also been in talks with the Ministry of Finance for some time now to allow the possibility that homes can also be in debt, but this is actually the burden of the B balance. In short, the Ministry of Finance is of the view that it is very hesitant to allow public welfare institutions to also be in charge of us and the Ministry of Finance with the consent of the competent authorities. Some homes, including public ones, for example, are certainly the home of pensioners Ptuj, who made so much savings that in fact construction was also in Cyprus on this account. The fact is that it turned out later, I will not go into this, but that these savings were in a way ensured that it was not the most appropriate from the point of view, especially the personnel employed in the home. But there are also many of our public institutions that create a certain savings that can then be earmarked for investment, and even if we are discovered, Danica Vogrinec's home of 3 million 771 of the current investment that I have mentioned is provided there by about a million euros alone. Thus, all public homes contribute their own resources to these investments. Once again, they are not in a different position – and because of this they are in a different position, because the investor is a private investor, he has his own money that he can invest – but they are not in a different position public than private. However, a different policy will be needed in this area. It should be borne in mind, however, that two years ago, three years ago, there was no deficit in these places, but, above all, in the east there were spare capacities mainly for concessionaires due to a partly higher price. In short, these challenges are changing. However, we have always expected that the Long-Terms Act will be adopted, which, of course, also changes, as the emphasis is on home aid, on strengthening this work. This also means unloading homes for the elderly, because in the National Social Protection Programme we count that about 5% of the over 65 people need cities to be provided in nursing homes as well. On this basis, new 900 seats were also awarded to concessionaires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u189	Mr Bojan Podkoršek will ask the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u190	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Minister, Secretary-General of the Government, distinguished Members and Members of Parliament! My question is for the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Koprivnik, regarding the sale of the historic building on Cankarjevo road 1 in Ljubljana. Dear Minister, I ask you, because a great deal of dust has been raised regarding your ministry's decision to be this historic object. Why do I speak historically? [[…]] Because it is extremely linked to the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. There are two important societies in this space, and there are several of them, namely the World Slovenian Congress and Conference of the World Slovenian Congress, which played an outstanding role in the independence of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, for almost 27 years. Those who are responsible for these two exceptional societies, of course, do not deserve to move to the premises on Linhartovo 13, where there will certainly not be the same conditions for the operation of these societies. I therefore ask you, Minister, because last week there was also a joint committee of three committees, where the Secretary of State of your Ministry was present: What would be the possibility that, according to the history of these social spaces, these facilities would be maintained and that these companies could remain in this building on Cankar's road 1? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u191	Minister Koprivnik, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u192	Thank you, honourable Member, for this matter. Thank you, President, for your word. The facts are as follows. This is indeed a historical object, which is already only partly owned by the Republic of Slovenia today, but has been sold out to the current owner, Banka Slovenije, who is also interested in buying these premises. Currently, we have in this facility the Society of the World Slovenian Congress, the Society for the United Nations, the Association of the Slovenian Emigrant Matica with free lease contracts, with which the State of Slovenia also recognises the importance of these societies in a special sense and also allows them to rent free of charge, which is actually made possible by Article 30 of the Real Property Act. We can give such property for temporary free rent if the country does not need it, but unfortunately only for a period of 5 years with one possibility of extension. These companies have been in these premises since 2008, and a five-year extension was again in 2013, which means that, in fact, after the end of this year, at the beginning of 2019, it would be virtually illegal to extend the lease or free-use contract at that location and thus be in an extremely delicate position for companies. That is why we took an early look at society, the Society of the World Slovenian Congress in 2016, where we told about the developments. We've had a joint meeting with all of them since we were 29. 11. 2017 and already at the beginning of 2017, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is somehow responsible for this area to be properly prepared, and all companies were invited to use the premises in accordance with the contract they have – because at this site these companies also provided premises to some others, even businesses – and to tell them that we will provide them with other suitable premises. To get a little feeling, this is a square of spaces where, according to public sector standards, we could provide accommodation for a circus of 80 public servants. Furthermore, under the contract, these companies are also obliged to cover investment costs, investment maintenance and, despite the fact that the facility was being renovated at that time, we have actually covered all these costs from the budget, at least we have not found any co-financing on their part. This is understandable because they do not have these resources, and we have tried to enable these societies to function in a stable manner. In negotiations with Banka Slovenije, we have reached a price of €3.8 million for these premises, which is also a very good price depending on the location and state of the premises. The operation of Gurs, which also uses these premises, also moves to another location that will be provided from this purchase. It is important to know that spaces with several aspects – fire, infrastructure, electricity, water, sewage and so on – are very inadequate. We have 4 million pre-budgeted investments in these premises. This is a historical monument, but it needs to be thoroughly renovated. So, it means that we should practically invest more in the renovation of the premises than their own purchase, and with it we will provide new premises in Šmartinski 152 for the needs of Gurs, buy the Furs in Grosuplje, renovate the facility on Beethoven 3, which has been in a very insurmountable state for a very long time, and rebuild the complex facility on Linhart 13 which we have also used through the exchange with the Municipality of Ljubljana for the needs of the administrative unit and in it to all these societies. In doing so, we have also provided the Slovenian Society for International Relations, the Club of former Slovenian Ambassadors and the Association with the Slovenian Conference with further contracts on the free use of these premises, which will be completely renovated, modern and even more; we have also coordinated specific flora and ways of using these premises so that they participate. In these new flora they actually have 14 to 20 offices available for their needs, sharing the common hall, completely renovated, significantly better accessible because there are also parking lots and it is much easier to access for visitors. Thus, we believe that these companies have very appropriate conditions for continuation at the new location, we intend to extend the contract and even more; we have also ensured that, at the expense of the real estate manager, we will also finance their relocation to these new facilities. As it is said, at an existing location after the beginning of 2019 it is simply no longer possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u193	Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u194	Thanks again. Dear Minister, thank you for your answer! I'm sure I have to agree with you in the part where you say you have to stick to the law. If you will remember, we have already talked in this Chamber about the facilities in the Republic of Slovenia that you manage, the Ministry of Public Administration, but of course this is not all on you because you have not been a minister for 20 years now. I mean, next. In Slovenia we have many facilities owned by the Republic of Slovenia, and in addition to these facilities we have private facilities which the country rents and, of course, also pays, many times, including high rent. Your Secretary of State, and you have already replied to me once that there has been a lot of work done in this area. This is certainly commendable. But to return to Cankar Road 1. You said the state invested a lot in this facility. Let me remember, even before these two important societies moved in, there was a lot of voluntary work and also a lot of voluntary money, both from Slovenia and abroad, from around the world. At the time of his transfer to these premises in 1991, everything was not restored. This has also been restored throughout the years, I repeat, most of all with the money they received outside the Republic of Slovenia. Let me also say when we talk about this important – I must admit that you yourself have told – an important cultural monument, as well as the historical significance of this facility, that this facility brings together more than half a million Slovenes and Slovenians who in the past had to go through this or another way, a reason to go abroad, throughout the world [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u195	Thank you. You're out of time. Minister Koprivnikar, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u196	Thank you for the opportunity to supplement. For this reason, I also specified exactly how the means of disposal of this facility will be used to precisely reduce rents and increase the employment of the authorities we have in those facilities owned by the Republic of Slovenia. And we've been doing it intensively, very successfully for several years now. This also shows that we have more and more resources available to rebuild because we are reducing rent costs. I did not talk about how much the country invested in this facility, I said that we should practically invest more in the rehabilitation of this facility than its actual purchase, and that with this purchase, we can provide adequate premises at three new locations. The importance of this society is extremely important to me and we recognise it, and today we are in a situation that if we do nothing, they will actually end this year without the possibility of free use of these premises. That's the law. By providing them with new, renovated, fully accessible spaces, we will continue to allow them to carry out their activities with what they absolutely deserve, without delay, if they do not, exactly the opposite effect: they could no longer be entitled to free rent in these areas, given the existing legislation that is such as it is. And that. The Ministry of Public Administration has taken over this facility as well as all others with centralisation, at least with 1. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Until then, they have been managed by the ministries, and since then we have taken these facilities into management, and we can also today boast of some successful reforms that have either been carried out or are being carried out, or the one that is on Beethoven, where a long-standing facility is standing and falling apart and today begins a complete overhaul and we will once again move one of the key state authorities from the rented premises into properly renovated ownership premises. The monumental protection or historical protection of the historical heritage of these buildings obliges each owner, whether he is a state or a private owner, and must accordingly carry out renovations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u197	Mr Podkoriek, you have the floor to request a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u198	Thank you for that second part of your answer. I am joining, given that only the last time on the Joint Committee of all three committees has been found that the government is not united here either. Above all, that they are not a single foreign minister, under whose auspices these societies belong, with the Minister of Public Administration, so I propose, in view of this – we are talking again about this historic facility, these two important societies – I fear that the right expert may not decide which premises are most suitable for these societies. And once again, let me say that this facility and these societies bring together over half a million Slovenes and Slovenians around the world. What's most important is that young people from all over the world come to this facility, sent by parents who once lived in our country. In this facility they learn the Slovenian word, Slovenian language and what is most important to learn where their parents were at home. I therefore propose that we hold a debate on this important point in the National Assembly, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u199	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mag. Branislav Rajić will ask the Minister of Culture Mr Anton Persak a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary! The results of the four-year tender for co-financing of art programmes are published, the decision is final and no appeal is possible. The Commissions have neglected more than €100,000 at the annual level, hanging undivided than in mockery against the rejected beneficiaries. All cultural Maribor was amazed at the news that the role of Carmine Slovenica for this funding was completely rejected. The Mariborians in this we see a brutal attempt to eliminate one of the most internationally established actors in the music field. Although the top production house is on a global scale and our unfathomable national treasure, Carmina Slovenica does not appear to receive any State support by 2022. The decision of the Ministry seems completely unreasonable, as I perceive it as a surgical amputation of the wrong thigh, equally wrong and equally irresponsible. The consequence of this conclusion without professional grounds is catastrophic for Carmina Slovenica – the cancellation of concerts, the question of continued existence. I know you're not a musician, but you're responsible for appointing expert commissions at the Ministry: Do you know if the reputation of those who have made this decision is even comparable to that of Carmine Slovenica? Have those who made this decision ever received an audience ovation, such as Carmina Slovenica in Cape Town, New York, Rotterdam, or Moscow? They're not! As a result, you should not rely on the autonomy of the commissions in the conduct of your conduct, but even less on the rigidity of the system. If the system does not recognise the support beneficiaries because of its own rigidity, something with the system is wrong and not with the art that this system is supposed to support. On behalf of not only the Mariborians, who have been you for the next four years in the hibernation of Carmino Slovenica, I ask: Do you see the possibilities and what, within your powers, Carmini Slovenija provides you with an uninterrupted continuity of creation? The Ministry of Culture must act with soundness of mind and responsibility, but above all culturally, it must not become a sound administrative fortress. More than all the other ministries are supposed to give no cause to the omens than a few days ago on the arrogance of artists and the audience. Revenge is worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u201	Mr Anton Peršak, Minister for Culture, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u202	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you for asking. First of all, I regret that you were not present before when I first answered the question in this context, because I have already explained some things there, and perhaps the answer is even more understandable. Otherwise, of course, I have to start by making a public invitation to tender, which means two. First of all, the fact that different applicants are competing for funds and no one is guaranteed success in advance. Secondly, as a rule, investors are much more than those that can be co-financed if we want to co-finance to the extent that this means something for those who report projects. With regard to the reputation of the members of the expert commissions, I should say that, on the basis of the recommendations of the Court of Auditors on the criteria for the selection of members of the professional commissions and on the proposal of the professional service of the Ministry, we have selected representatives of the professional committee of the music profession, including two PhDs of musicology, one of which is also a valued critic who achieve the reference results in the field of their work, in particular on their professional contributions, in the field of science, publicism. Of course, the comparison of professional achievements and achievements of artists in some field is not entirely possible, partly because there is no promotion of achievements in the field of research activity, while in the artistic field it is essential to promote wider social visibility. In the field of science, there are criteria for the enforcement of researchers, which we know to be different in nature. With regard to the question that we have spent four years hibernating Carmino Slovenica, let me say that, on the basis of a call for proposals or a call for proposals, those programmes or projects which, in the selection process, are higher assessed or evaluated in accordance with the criteria. The expert committee shall assess all criteria comparable to those of all notifiers. In accordance with the text of the invitation to tender, a maximum of eight programmes could be adopted for co-financing, which means that eight programmes were proposed by the Co-financing Commission. Unfortunately, the application of the Carmine Slovenica meeting on the basis of a cross-comparison of the criteria and evaluation criteria did not reach 81 points, which is a condition for co-financing. The criteria and criteria for the selection of programmes consist of an assessment of the applicant’s benchmark, bringing 20% of the points, the evaluation of the notified programme and the evaluation of the financial evaluation of the programme together, representing 20% and the average 60. All criteria are eight and are set out in the text of the invitation to tender. The co-financing was selected by the notifiers who, on the basis of all eight criteria, collected sufficient points necessary for the adoption of co-financing. The Minister, as you know, is legally bound on a commission proposal. Otherwise, it may require another assessment if it doubts any proposal, but cannot change the decision of the expert commission. This is explicitly stated in the law. Do we see the possibility of providing funds to enable the Slovenian Republic to function smoothly? At the time of the call, we invited all applicants who would apply for a programme call to apply for a multi-annual project call. Unfortunately, Carmina Slovenica has not done so, but a one-year project call is still available in which at least half of the funds that Carmina Slovenica received from the previous public tender can be obtained, and if she obtains some other resources from other titles – we know that there is a relatively strong local community in Maribor, the municipal community, and so on – she will certainly be able to continue her work.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u203	Mr Matjaž Hanžek will ask a question from the Secretary-General of the Government. Lilliani Kozlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Vice President. Hello, Secretary General of the Government! The domestic and international mechanisms for monitoring respect for human rights have long and growingly warned that, in this country, we must take a substantial and more serious, responsible approach to regulating the situation of the Roma community, particularly those most vulnerable, who are forced to live in unworthy conditions, unregulated settlements. We are reminded of the neglect of the most vulnerable people of Roma origin by all international control mechanisms for the protection of human rights. The Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities in the Council of Europe has just re-set our mirror. Last spring, the majority rejected the proposal for legal solutions prepared by Members of the United Left, with which the Government took a position, I quote, "with regard to the purposes and reasons of the proposers for amending and supplementing the current law", and the end of the quote, to prepare its proposal. Now we have seen the government’s draft of the new law, but what a disappointment it is. I would like answers in this regard: Why was it necessary to create a draft law without the cooperation of external experts in a transparent way, hidden from the public's eyes? The draft law, which has been put into public debate and is not properly substantiated without an assessment of the situation of the matter, an assessment of the effectiveness of the proposal, has no clear explanation of the objectives pursued. Where did the idea come from that the promise of special rights of Roma communities should be taken back to a large extent? This law, I believe, is worse in some areas than it was ten years ago to pass a law prepared by the Janša government. And the third time: How do lawmakers feel about bringing this law through the process of adoption, since we are already very close to elections? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u205	Dear Secretary-General of the Government, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u206	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Member, thank you for your questions! I fully agree with you with the issue you have addressed, and I am also aware of all the control mechanisms that alert us to the actual situation regarding the Roma topic. We are also aware of the ECREA report and the warning, so the governments are very intensive and responsible in preparing to actually tackle this situation. The law is in its final, final phase, and we anticipate that this month it can be submitted to the Government. I cannot agree with you that he has become a secret and without the cooperation of external experts. Each law arises in a way that the Government appoints a working group and then inter-departmentally prepares this law. The public then participates in the public debate itself. I can agree with you that he may not have been reasoned, but that does not mean that the public did not participate. We have received comments, which we have also now considered or have already addressed and relate in particular to three sets, both by the Roma community and by representatives of the Roma community, as well as by the municipalities as well as by the Ombudsman. They apply mainly to three sets; one of those whom you have indirectly cited as violating the rights of the law is the other to act as a substitute for the State in the event that local communities fail to do what they should do in regulating the spatial problem itself, and the third part relates to the composition of the Council of the Roma Community. As for the first segment, let me tell you that I don't agree with myself. Maybe because of the lack of explanation, it was understood that we were violating rights. [[…]] I do not agree with the fact that this would be referred to narrower areas, and I believe that we will also deal with it accordingly. As far as spatial issues are concerned, we are also regulating the state's alternative action, although we believe that it is primarily necessary for the municipalities to act. As a step forward, we consider that we have reached the consensus of local communities; with the exception of one local community, we work with the majority everywhere where these settlements are detected, including the Inter-Resort Working Group. The government has also discussed its interim report, and we have come to this point to have already a set of kits and reviews where these settlements are located, to prepare two laboratories with the aim of preserving these areas and legalising them, and another elaborate to also modernise and actually integrate into Slovenian society. Legal bases are being drawn up which will constitute positive discrimination, as a whole set of rules will have to be amended in order for this to be regulated and, of course, those organisational, financial and other measures necessary to do so. We also regulate alternative action in such a way that it remains the original competence of local communities. Temporary measures are also needed. Because we need to be aware that, given the actual situation and what the Government and the Slovenian public are aiming at, we need to arrange for a breakthrough that is very large and therefore temporary measures will also be needed. All these measures will be prepared by the end of March, including financial evaluation and included in the national action programme. The third set to which we received comments relates, however, to the composition of the Council of the Roma Community. Here we have a little bit, I think, a bigger problem because the proposals on how to deal with it, the Roma community itself has not given us how to put the Council together. We know that we have a different interest group within us, and we would like to see that the composition of the Council itself reflects their actual wish. Above all, we want to achieve this responsibility with them in order to help us in helping the Roma community to do so and to realize the importance of their active role in solving their problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u207	Mr Matjaž Hanžek, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u208	Thank you very much for a very comprehensive report. There's something I'm happy with, and there's something else I'm still missing. Above all, there is one big problem that continues to occur in Slovenia, which more or less no one can explain precisely, is the question of autonomy. Slovenia is one of the few countries that binds nationality's rights to autonomy, but unfortunately it does not define this autonomy either in the constitution or in the law, what and who is the autochthon. Some 20 years ago, the then Foreign Minister Rupel in the Council of Europe, who demanded criteria, said that the indigenous minority, who lives in Slovenia for at least two generations, was the minority. That means all Roma are probably indigenous. The second major problem is that autonomy is recognized individually. In fact, if a minority is granted a right, each individual shall be granted that minority right. We recognize that the one who lives here is an autochthon, and the one who is 20 meters across the municipal border is not an autochton. Unfortunately, the autonomy is automatic, the Hungarians also have autonomy, and for 50 years I think they have it there, but all Roma living in Hungary are indigenous. That's one. Secondly, I would like to read here from the report of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities. The real Ah, nothing, I'm running out of time, so I'm just going to say that they on page 12 also find that the preparation of Slovenian law somehow avoided the profession and the Roma community. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u209	Secretary General of the Government. Lilliana Kozlovich, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u210	Thank you. As far as the concept of autonomy is concerned. In the first part, I purposely avoided it because we know that this term as such does not actually remain. We're united here so we can't turn him into a specific area. However, I indirectly told you that I do not agree that we are talking about this concept at all and that we should extend these rights as fully as necessary; that is, to all groups, irrespective of interference. As for the fact that it was without the Roma community or that experts were not involved. The Roma community itself, the Council of the Roma Community and even their President were a member of the working group, so he also directly participated in the drafting of the law. I believe that this is already the highest representative by law, who can consult all his members and make appropriate comments. In fact, they also made their comments during the drafting of the law and also actively cooperated. With regard to experts, I believe that the cooperation of experts within the Ministry, who know this issue, as well as directly with people working on the ground, was this cooperation – particularly with the municipalities. That's how I think we addressed this issue properly. However, it seems important to me that we have opened these articles, that we have somehow upgraded them and that we are also giving Parliament the opportunity that if we do not address something properly to the government, it can then be upgraded in Parliament. Above all, I have here in mind the question of the Council of the Roma Community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u211	Mr Matjaž Hanžek, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Next, I would like to talk to you at the next meeting of the National Assembly about the answers. Not because we'd misinterpret it, but because maybe this discussion in the National Assembly would help resolve this, it seems, we have a similar view of autonomy with the secretary. [[…]] However, as far as I have seen the record and the rest, some members of the committee have strictly demanded autonomy, although, I repeat, there is no problem if there are criteria, because there are no criteria, there is a kind of kiss. Let's just drop it. I agree and I also know that the President of the Council of the Roma Community was, but he was more or less the only member of the Committee. Of course, we are good acquaintances, I would say even friends, for 15, 20 years now, but he has been President of the Council of the Roma Community all along, and it will be very difficult for him to oppose or agree to change. Other Roma have a variety of others I agree, the Roma are nothing different than Slovenians, and we have the same different opinion in every matter. [[…]] We have proposed the simplest way of determining – elections. In conjunction with the elections of the Roma representatives in the municipalities, representatives are elected to the Council of the Roma Communities. What's more democratic than elections? Certainly more democratic than giving representatives of various cultural and other societies that depend on the country's funding, which means: dependent on funding, independent of voting – you will vote the way the country wants you to. It's a little different in elections. I repeat, this is the easiest way to put together the Council of the Roma Community. Well, I won't anymore. If the National Assembly supports my proposal, I will be able to tell you a lot about it, and a lot of suggestions, because, after all, I only know something about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u213	We will decide on your proposal tomorrow, 23 January, in the framework of the votes. Mr Andrej Čuš will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počovalski a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u214	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Minister, of course all other members of the government, a nice greeting! In early October, I introduced the new Trade Act into the legislative procedure. Today, three months after that, maybe a man, if he looks over his thumb a little bit, said, well, that's good, but you've achieved something, you've calmed down a little, everybody's happy and calm now, but I have to say that's not the case. When we even discussed this proposal at the beginning of the month or December, it was repeatedly said that this annex, signed by the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and representatives of trade unions, who have been sold here more than apparently or forgotten, who are they representing at all, that this compromise has rotted and that it smells very bad. As I have warned myself about these problems and problems, I would also support that. Today we are 22 January, good three weeks since this annex number 3 in the collective agreement and see what merchants and traders in one company have received? The restrictions on Sunday’s work, which meant that no more than 26 weeks a year, have been lifted. Employees on this basis may carry out an unlimited number of weeks per year. Secondly, the restrictions on work on holidays, at least 5 holidays per year, must be free of workers, is also abolished. Employees on this basis can work at anything by law for a certain part of the day off. I could list other cases. Like, I could tell moms and dads who are under three years old, they should be free and they shouldn't be working on Sunday. Traders and traders here must sign statements to their bosses that they do not have children under three years of age and that they must, of course, work. If we move on. The first Sunday of this year, the employees were employed, their hours were recorded as normal regular work, at least that's what was said. Keep going. Let's say Saturdays, because now they don't fill the shelves of the merchants and merchants and of course warehousemen on Sundays, but on Saturdays, they work on Saturdays until 10:00 or 11:00 p.m. These overtimees can be forgotten. There are also various anomalies in the field of work and employment of persons with disabilities. Mr. Secretary, of course I'm interested: Who can these merchants and merchants turn to? Where can they report this exploitation? Do you, or at least you, as minister, feel that this compromise they have signed is a good one, or would marriage still be a better solution? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u215	The Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravko Restoršek, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u216	Dear Member, Members and Members, Mr President! First of all, thank you very much for the questions. In the event of a recent debate on operating time, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has, on Sundays and by law, in principle supported the objective and purpose of a bill prohibiting the operation of shops on Sundays and holidays. I must say that before and at the same time, we, at the Ministry, have dealt with a proposal or with thinking about a similar law, but more on the basis of or on the grounds that we have obtained additional labour or that we help solve the problem of labour shortages, which is also in trade. However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not adopted any of the exceptions in this proposal and the unclear criteria and criteria for the admissibility of exceptions to the general rule of closure of the sales proposal. [[…]] The Trade Act has therefore not been amended. The issue of operating time of shops has also started, interestingly, to be tackled in the context of a social agreement. At the end of last year, an annex of the social partners you discussed was concluded and signed to the Collective Agreement on Trade in Slovenia. This annex, which regulates work and payments on Sundays and holidays, in my opinion only partially solves the issue of working hours of shops. In essence, it solves only one segment of the area of operating time, namely the part relating to employees in the industry. The problem of business time is much broader than the problem of work and pay on Sundays and holidays; what you have stated. The annex of the social partners was, interestingly, what was achieved in the short term, but it covered one of the key issues which I do not think is resolved. For this reason, I believe that this problem will have to be reopened in the future. This is the case; first of all, the broader public interest, which is not addressed, secondly, the commercial activity is aimed at consumer supply, and therefore the regulation of business time should take into account, in addition to the interests of entrepreneurs and employees in trade, and in particular the interests of consumers, suppliers. And I'm saying it again. I think that this problem should also address a broader social interest, which is completely different from when we had the referendum or the situation is different. Even then, in some way, with all the activities, after people have decided on a solution with additional measures, this referendum will has been bypassed or, if you will, driven. When and in what way will the agreement of the social partners to the Collective Agreement on Trade in Slovenia begin to be implemented is a question for employers and trade unions. As Minister responsible for trade, I do not want to comment on the social partners' agreement, although I find this interesting that this agreement has been followed by a debate on the law very interesting. To date, supervision of consistent implementation is not within the competence of the IGRT, but is the task of the social partners. In any event, I would like the agreement of the social partners on the operating time of the shops to satisfy both employers and consumers, and above all to provide adequate protection for employees in the industry. If this matter is not respected now, we do not yet have such information. Well, they're going to have to take action by the competent authorities. In any event, labour law must be respected around working time.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u217	Mr Andrej Chuš, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, this is exactly what makes all the agreements and some of the promises made by the social partners of the public somehow go away. In fact, employees in one company received a notice a few days after the new year about their new working time, where it beautifully states that the restrictions on Sunday work have been lifted after the new year. Looks like someone's making a fool of themselves. Of course, I appeal if we have a legal state in Slovenia, that I also have a number of things that are worth reporting and mentioning as soon as possible, and I hope that the competent authorities here will act for the benefit of the workers. [[…]] However, I am interested when you said that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia somehow rejected this proposal of law mainly because it had too many exceptions, although it had a hand to the heart, here we had our first hearing and could easily be amended in another reading. I'd like to know what you think is a permissible exception. I understand that there is no limit to the free enterprise initiative, i.e. family trade. If we look at a European standard, we will understand that gas services along the highway in Slovenia are somehow open. One would also understand that there are open trades at border crossings and airports. The question is: What else is an exception to your marriage? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u219	Minister Zdravko Restoršek, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u220	Thank you. First of all, I must say that what falls under labour law is the responsibility of inspection. As a country, I don't think we can sanction social partner agreements with inspection services. I thought of myself at the time of this agreement, I still think of myself today, but I believe that it is the law itself — but if we look at the history of this problem from that period after 2000, after the referendum, after the Constitutional Court's decision — that we should respect some things, they have become engrossed. With the exceptions you're asking me about, I have to say that these are a few things that need to be addressed. It is a question of those so-called duty stores, it is old city cores, it is a question of tourism, it is a question of petrol services, as you mentioned. In the thinking that we have been preparing in the pre-escalation period, we have been following our northern neighbours to the greatest extent possible, because we think that all these issues are solidly resolved. It is said that on-call trade issues, the issue of tourism, petrol services and also old city nuclei, which are also linked to the issue of tourism to the greatest extent possible. I think that this area will soon come to light because of the question I mentioned earlier – the issue of labour shortages – it will have to be opened again in a more organised way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u221	Mr Marko Ferruga will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition a question. Diane Jedhan. Here you go, Mr. Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u222	Thank you for your word. Good evening, ministers, both ministers and one, two, three, four, five Members of Parliament who are here! Recently, concerned farmers from the coast asked me about the way and the principle of the operation of the Agricultural Land Fund. I know that this is such a debate that never ends, and there are many questions both for the municipalities and for all; but if I am concrete, they and I are interested in the price of agricultural land on the Coast sold by the Fund of Agricultural Lands. I know there are certain rules that have their prices. According to the information given to me, the prices of agricultural land on the coast should be around €50 per square meter, which is a much higher price than other agricultural land in Slovenia. This is also a matter of some question, even sometimes it seems that these agricultural land on the Coast is more expensive than some building land within Slovenia – but this is probably one broader concept. In particular, I would like to know the following: Is there a comparison between the prices of the land mentioned and the reasons why? Furthermore, the issue of agricultural policy is very important in this case, in the case of the protection of people working on agriculture in the coast. How can we take a step further and help them by drawing these prices closer to their purchasing power? You yourself probably know very well that many of these speculations with agricultural land, perhaps as an idea, one proposal to add some certain benefits to the permanent homeowners who have the status of a farmer in purchases, even in the purchase of such land that are somehow remote, and they are close to this farmer who would like to buy it, may be extended a little bit. Then the Fund, which is likely to operate in some way and with its rules, gives such a price that it simply does not pay a man. I will be very happy if you can explain this to me and explain how you plan to act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u223	The word has magic. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u224	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, Mr. Marko Ferruga, for the question. I have obtained some information from the Fund and I am happy to present it to you. Firstly, the Fund has not sold agricultural land for agriculture in the last three years in the area of those three administrative units. However, there was some demand for sales, but they were more designed to reach the construction site in the second step. The Fund has a rule that applies to all Slovenia to sell agricultural land for half the value of building land within a hundred metres of building plots. And there weren't many of those jobs. If you allow me to tell you the data for all three years after 2017 in all three administrative units, this is Koper, Izola and Piran, sold only 742 square metres, the average selling price was EUR 123 per square meter and there were six contracts. [[…]] In 2016 it was also sold very little, less than 0.5 hectares, that is 4 000 783 square metres, the number of contracts was 12 and the average selling price was 40 euros per square metre. Also in 2015, a good 0.3 hectares were sold, which is 3 000 379 square metres, contracts were 7, and the average selling price was 42 euros. As for the comparison of agricultural land prices and building land prices, the fund does not have its own records, but we have obtained data from the Geodetic Authority. These data are valid for the 2016 report, for 2017 we have not yet been able to obtain data, they say that the average selling price for agricultural land in Slovenia was 1.5 euros per square metre, 5.7 euros per square metre, and 2.1 euros per square metre in central Slovenia, while the average land price for building buildings in Slovenia was 61 euros per square metre, 77 euros per square metre in coast in central Slovenia and 132 euros per square metre in central Slovenia. For the current legislation, it needs to be updated. The first update would be quite simple, allowing operations of the country within a 10km space, but did not obtain consent. Just the opposite! She received a lot of opposition from Slovenian farmers through the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, so we did not move forward with legislation, although in our opinion these farmers would benefit from this, because then this land would be leased, because the country does not own agricultural land, but manages them only. Then, last year, because we know that we need to take a step forward, we have requested and have also developed professional bases and several alternative models for the modernisation of agricultural policy. We had six regional consultations, including on the Coast. But there are, I have to say, the diametric positions between what people on the Coast think, what they think in Dolenjska, in Styria, in Pomurje, so we have good expertise, and we have a unified opinion of NGOs that we have not been able to obtain. The Ministry itself is thinking in this direction: for the first time, to withdraw from areas that are essentially irrelevant to the country, the state does not own, but only manages, and to preserve the land where the country is characterised by strategic interest and where the nature of the conservation interest characterises it. For example, first-order water belts, habitat areas, because there, when the state owns, it kind of takes over. It is also close to me to the idea that the preferential order in the sale would have farmers from the administrative unit, since then speculations that administrative units cannot prevent, at least when a person is registered as a farmer, could be registered as a farmer, and one who is from Ljubljana, New City, is also from Murska Sobota, although it is the interest of the mayors to speak to the country where the tenders are, to give priority to the host in order to preserve their tradition and to support the idea itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u225	Mark Ferruga, you have the floor to request an explanation of the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u226	Thank you, Minister, for what you've said. We're thinking in the same direction, and I'm very happy about that. It is said that people who have permanent residences in administrative units and who have this status will have an advantage. I don't need to know what science to do about it. Another fact that is very important, as you mentioned and also from the data, for example, to be understood, is actually price differences. For absurdity to be greater than I know, at least for one instance, I know when a man has already built land and would like to collect around the land a piece of land owned by the Fund. The fund gave such a price for that land, that he said the one next door, that it was not worth it, because there was no logic or finance when you were buying something abandoned, a pasture and I don't know what. But he has an interest because he would like to do it and settle with everything he has, and then he actually screws up, and the Fund, as you said yourself, has no interest in managing anything and is left to himself. Here this management is often lacking and I agree with you that some steps will have to be taken in this direction. So thank you for that and I hope you will work in this regard further.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u227	The word has magic. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u228	Mr Member, I just want to say that we think very much alike. I also met with individual mayors, and they also know our initiative to make the Fund a little easier in the current legislation if the municipalities had been defined as priority farming – anything specific to them. This would in fact make it easier to authenticate the interests of individual tenants If not, the interest after farming is sought and the Fund is mentioned here by its rules. [[…]] In fact, we think similarly. But we could already take a step by defining more precisely the municipality, because they have their original competence, which type of agricultural activity they extend, and this could be one of the funds internal conditions in the tender. But I've already talked to the mayors about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u229	Mrs Iva Dimic will refer the question to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u230	Dear Madam Secretary! In 2016, a merger of two funds from the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities was carried out on the basis of the new Law on the Public Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. It was carried out in essence by the Associations of the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the Development of Personnel and Scholarship to the Public Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, by 1. 1. 2017. As a reason for this merger and the addition of funds, the recommendations made by the Court of Auditors and the planned savings in both the field of staff and material activities were cited. For 2017, savings were planned in the area of labour costs, savings on the salaries of one director, as you said at the time, and savings for the integration of related work processes and optimisation of human and financial operations and in the field of communication with the public at the estimated level of €200,000. We as New Slovenia – Christian Democrats then opposed such a way of pooling funds because the funds covered very different areas that were incompatible. We doubted the promise to change the planned savings. With regard to savings in the field of human resources, I reviewed the last annual reports of both funds that are united and found that they were 31 years old. 12. In 2016, a total of 53 public staff are employed in the Human Resources Plan. Madam Minister, it has been one year since this merger, so I think it is time that you explain to us the savings made in the area of labour costs in the now integrated fund. I want to know: What is the actual total number of employees of public servants on the public scholarship, development, disability and maintenance plan of the Republic of Slovenia on 31 December 12. 2017? How many of the highest paid public servants have decreased since the merger of the funds, namely regional secretaries? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u231	Minister Anja Kopač Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u232	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear Member, thank you very much for this question because I have deepened into this part on all matters on the basis of this question. In 2016, a law was passed in the National Assembly, where we joined two funds or a scholarship fund before this combined disability, maintenance and guarantee fund. There were three of them before. He was disabled. He was special. Years ago, when Borut Pahor’s government was in power, a guarantee and maintenance fund were merged with a disabled person. The merger was based on similar recovery processes and also, as mentioned above, on the Court of Auditors and recommendations. In fact, we are one of the few ministries that we have so pooled the funds that we now have only one other fund, so that the story about public funds, which is too much in our country, we have actually arranged at the IMF. At the hearing, I was talking about the savings we're supposed to make. The fact that in 2017 the savings were not what we planned is the following: the connection was made with 1. 1. 2017 and the fact is that the Supervisory Board of the Fund was only on 27 June 2017 – it took six months under the law to harmonise internal acts – to give its consent to the Regulation on the internal organisation and systematisation of jobs. So for half a year, they still acted separately, with 1. 8. 2017 a single internal organisation with job systemisation has been established to meet the needs of the job. As for what you asked me, how many senior secretaries were there, the number remained identical, so they wrote it down. The fact is, since it was still working for six months, it is not possible to expect such savings so quickly in this area. Of course, savings of €57 000 are due to the fact that only one director is paid, but as you know – so you probably ask me – 4 additional jobs were approved in the Joint Staff Plan last year, mainly due to European funds, namely the Fund for the Development of Personnel and the Grant now has significantly increased European resources under this heading. In short, it is very impossible to compare each other, and the fact is that these savings are expected and that in the future the supervisory board will also be committed to realizing this, so that this is not forgotten and internal synergies are sought. Last year was also more because they moved to new premises and was more spent on investments. Based on this in 2018, to answer your question I have been given a little more precise answers, they expect from this title to rent, for example, for the already 14,000 euro savings. In short, when you reorganise certain business processes, everyone will tell you that you can't expect savings in the first year, especially if there is an old way of systemisation and all that, so that it has to be taken into account. However, the Supervisory Board is committed and, under the law, you will also consider the business plan on the Committee and I believe that something will be said on the parental committee as well. I really thank you for the question that I have been much more attentive to this now and will also give written instructions on the basis of this Supervisory Council that they must act in accordance with their competences. Indeed, the Governing Council is responsible for doing so. But I absolutely believe it's the pluses that will turn out. For example, with this year's savings they have planned to modernise electronic commerce where they create savings in 2018. In other areas, however, they will update their business. By all means, the basic objective is to reduce costs and, on the other hand, to have a more efficient fund. I believe that the merger and the logic of pooling funds in the country can still not be wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u233	Mrs Iva Dimic, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u234	Thank you for your answers, Madam Minister. I must say that I expected you to link the increase in the number of employees in line with the area of European projects and perhaps even with the new area of work, the international recovery of livelihoods that the Fund has taken over from your ministry. However, with your answers, I'm not exactly happy, because I don't think I've noticed what the current situation of the employees is, but we could have already identified it. [[advertising from the hall]] 56 – it is said that the number of employees has increased. I would also like to say that from the systematisation of the jobs that I have seen on the website of the Public Fellowship, Development, Disability and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, it is clear that the systematised type of new management jobs is the Head of Sectors and Heads of Sections. These are probably the highest-title jobs, which unfortunately does not contribute to higher speed and also to higher quality of the Fund's work. For I am addressed by many parents of children who complain about the operation of the fund. Mainly due to long-term decision-making procedures on Zois scholarships and scholarships for studies abroad. Some parents are waiting for a decision to grant Zois’ scholarship for their child more than half a year from the date of the application. The same is true of students who go to study abroad. Madam Minister, I do not think it was your original intention to see half a year's delay or indecision in these areas so that parents and students can wait for their applications. Nevertheless, let me say that we are talking about an increased number of people who are not paid with a minimum wage and are expected to work in accordance with and well with the level of personal income. Last thing I want to know is: What will you do to ensure that decisions are made in accordance with the laws and legal provisions?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u235	Minister Anja Kopač Mrak, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u236	Thanks for the second part, too. The main purpose of the Fund’s reorganisation was to change that, and I hope or should change things. According to the report I have before me - they sent it from the fund because the Director is responsible for the operation of the fund and the Supervisory Board for Control - the new internal organisation regulation has unified some of these processes. In short, it was necessary to make some normal structure. I have written here that the number of field secretaries based on the association and systemisation of the Fund has not decreased. There are 55 public servants at 18. 1. 2018 in the Human Resources Plan. You mentioned 53 earlier, so it's 55. However, one thing must be said, please remember, in accordance with the ZDR, everyone must remain on the same conditions for one year at the time of the reorganisation. The reorganisation of social work centres is similar. This is a guardian of the Labour Relations Act and, in fact, this is not a fund where the Staff Law would apply, but a Labour Relations Act applies, and with any business change, i.e. a merger, workers are entitled not to change within one year the rights they have previously signed. So from this point of view too, the reorganisation is such. With regard to Zois's scholarships, the fact that unfortunately is no different now than it was years ago should have been different. In this regard, I will also ask the Director how, in what way, the assumptions on this matter are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u238	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Madam Secretary, colleagues, colleagues! In 2011, it was found that the old home of pensioners in Brežica no longer meets the legal and legal requirements. The decision was taken to build a new home for pensioners under the Public-Private Partnership Act. The new home was then also built, dedicated to use in 2013 and the old facility remained functional, abandoned, although the facility warms up to a certain temperature, but since it has not been used for many years, it is slowly failing. The Brežice municipality showed an interest in taking this facility in order to somehow drive it. She also showed interest through some initiatives by NGOs as well as other public institutions to occupy the individual premises of this facility, of course under the condition that it should be restored, and in this direction negotiations have also been held with the Ministry to transfer the old facility to the Municipality of Brežica free of charge. One of the conditions given by the Ministry of Labour when transferring the building of the old home of pensioners to Brežica Municipality was that a protection and work centre should also be installed within it for a certain period of time. Certain negotiations were then held in this regard. According to my information received from the Municipality of Brežica, the content of this transfer contract has been somehow harmonised and the latest information is such that the Ministry of this Treaty has not signed that the facility appears to be still doomed to collapse. In this regard, I am interested in: Why was this contract with the Municipality of Brežica not signed, given that, as I have already mentioned, the object is failing? I believe that this is difficult for the natives to see, especially because many of them do not see themselves in the new home of pensioners and even go abroad to the homes of pensioners, where services are easier to finance. I also want to know: What are the costs of maintaining this facility? Why is the Ministry's last position contrary to the previous one, so that the home should not be suitable for the establishment of the work centre? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u240	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Thank you, Your Honor, for the question. The facts are as you stated, and the story has been going on since 2011 – by building a new home for pensioners – this is a building owned by the State and managed by the home of the pensioners, i.e. the Impolic, and we are negotiating a transfer with the municipality. And yes, you have rightly said, we agreed with the transfer, only in accordance with the law on the handling of the State's real estate must the Ministry of Public Administration give consent or the Government and this has not been given. In this case, the transfer on the basis of the rules governing the management of the State’s real property must be previously agreed by the MJU with the transfer for the treatment of government material for the free disposal of property rights on immovable property. Following the submission of a proposal for the treatment of government material for the review of the MJU for the issue of consent, some reasons for not agreeing with the free transfer of immovable property were stated. Firstly, a basic assumption is not fulfilled, as the contract states that part of those premises is necessary for the performance of the tasks of VDC Krško - Leskovec. It is not clear whether the circus operator has even tried to sell a million EUR 600,000 worth of property. The contract on the free transfer of property rights must contain a provision prohibiting the further withdrawal for at least 15 years and a provision on the duty to return the property if it no longer serves to achieve the public interest. And here the mayor could probably inform you that the city council or the municipal council did not agree to such a contract. Neither did they, because it was committed to how long they had to provide rent at a reduced price for VDC and must not be any transfer, this is the legislation. They warned the IMF as a departmental ministry that they are in line with the third point of the decision of the Government of the Republic of 28. 11. 2013 Real Estate Managers are obliged to take into account the mandatory guidance of the current real estate management strategy when deciding to withdraw free of charge. In short, it was not possible to obtain agreement and transfer under this law, so we made it clear to the municipality at our very intensive meetings with them that the only possibility is to make a transfer under the law on coherent regional development, which is under the responsibility of the IGRT, of course, the IMF has also agreed to do so, and it is necessary to go first into an attempt to sell, and it must also be made clear that new jobs will be created. As far as VDC is concerned, why the Ministry has changed, we are, I think, 17. 11. provide clear information by electronic means, that is to say that, at this point, the transfer of VDC to these premises is no longer useful because, in all this period where the premises are rented, the VDC has now transformed these premises to suit its needs, and by moving back to the new location, of course, additional costs would arise, as this building actually needs to be fully adjusted for the residence of the VDC. So we advised the congregation to try, under the law on regional development, to carry out the procedure itself and to agree on what is involved. Of course it is not for us – the controller is home to the Impoliac and home of the Impoliac, that is, the world at home, decides on secession and must carry out all the procedures and the competent ministry can help. I would like to, and I myself have been in contact with the mayor several times about these meetings, and I thought that the matter was already settled because we actually agreed on a contract, a transfer, after which there were actually real restrictions in the real estate law of the country, which require certain elements that the municipality did not agree on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr. Igor Zorčič, will you complete the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u242	Thank you very much. I'm not too happy with the answer. Madam Secretary, this is the case. I know that decision of the municipal council because I participated in it myself, and I can tell you that in the municipal council, the debate was going on in this direction, so that this withdrawal would not be so free without the Ministry allowing for the removal by installing the VDC. Now you say that this accommodation is no longer necessary or appropriate. In short, it was one of the conditions for the ministry to approach the so-called free removal of property, now after 5 years, for example, you are resigning. It may be even more surprising to say that there are no conditions under the Real Estate Act of the State and the local communities, that it has been through so much time, it is said for 5 years that they are now unproductively on another legal basis, the Law on Promoting Harmonized Regional Development, which I believe may also be another basis for transposition, but I am sad that five years of negotiations have been lost. I'd like to ask you once again about these maintenance costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u244	I'm sad, too. If a decision were to go to the government over, this could be done, but the fact is that there are limitations, and of course it is not the fault of the Ministry of Public Administration that it would not seem so, but the Ministry of Public Administration is responsible for this part of the law and then the conditions must be met, so unfortunately [[…]] However, the fact is that free transfer is not possible if there is no interest, we must be aware of that. It was an experiment at the time because the VDC had no other option, and it was renting space as such. When this has not occurred in recent years, in fact, the VDC has now realised its need. Unfortunately, things are changing, and when you don't take one step, the VDC has tried in a different way and has ensured that you stay in those premises that are rented, unfortunately that's the way it is. We have also made it very clear in the framework of the Government in the field when we were there, that it is most prudent to carry out this transfer through the law on coherent regional development, that it will also be the fastest and we will, of course, assist in doing so if the congregation decides to do so. 15 000 euros is an estimate that was sent by the Impoliac home to cost at the annual maintenance costs or yes, 15 000 euros a year are the costs of what I do not think is important, 15 000, but the key is that there is a building that would be nicely put into use. [[…]] [[…]] That's the key. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u245	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Bojan Podkrodšek will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food to Mr Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u246	Mr. Vice President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Honourable Minister of Magi. I will ask dean jedan a question in the area of the rural development programme from 2014 to 2020. Dear Minister, we spoke to the committee on which you participated last week about one programme to help start the development of small farms. I have to admit, this program has come up with a positive response. In this program, as you know even more than I do, you can see farms somewhere between 3 and 6 hectares of comparative surfaces. The amount of this one-off aid — or paid in two parts — is 5,000 euros. As you said last week, or I read it somewhere, you were supposed to report about 6,000 small farms here. Here the response is much smaller, somewhere between two thousand and two thousand 500 farms, and I have checked it myself in two advisory services. Dear Minister, given that we have about 69,000 farms in the Republic of Slovenia, one of the larger, other smaller ones, there are about 28 thousand farms, or that is good 40% of the farms, which are less than three hectares, I ask you: Given that in the first phase, when it comes to tendering from 3 to 6 hectares of comparable surfaces, not all resources will be exhausted, what are the chances that the lower limit of 3 hectares will be allowed to reach at least 2.5 hectares? Why do I ask that? Because then more of these smaller farms could be seen in this segment. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u248	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you, Member, for the current question. I now receive this question daily, as well as on all the committees where we meet, will probably be in the future theme of this. Maybe to begin with, this is a very innovative measure that we have not yet had in Slovenia. [[…]] We have come to this measure on the basis of an analysis of the situation in Haloza, and this is what we must say. At the initiative of the National Assembly, MEPs and Members in particular, we have also very carefully looked at the area, which under some criteria has been degraded, namely Haloze. We have prepared a programme that we are implementing, and it has been found that there is one group of farms that are characterised by the possibility of economic vitality, but at this point it is difficult to say that they are economically vital because people are mostly working elsewhere. But they do have the possibility of actually becoming economically vital, and at the same time there we have found some other criteria. This is that we need to be careful to save, in particular, farms that have at least part of the area, at least 50%, within the OMDs or LFAs, and which is the characteristic of Slovenia, that we bind to livestock, which is, nevertheless, the one that makes it most impossible to fertilise. The possibility of economically viable farms and livestock farming was therefore sought. When all of this is possible as a cut, we would find that such farms are about 6 000 500 in Slovenia. It was estimated that a two-thirds response from farms would likely be due to the fact that the measure is quite easy to meet, even then to meet its obligations. At this point, the invitation to tender is still pending, so we don't know if we're going to get to the 4 grand limit or if it's going to be a little less. It will depend on whether and how we move on. I would suggest that we look at what will be the result of this call. I guess he'll be good. And then this call was made for the whole of Slovenia, not just for Haloze, but in Haloza we looked at the case of the degraded area. [[…]] Immediately behind Haloz we received an invitation from the mayors of Crassus, where the specifics of farming are slightly different from elsewhere in Slovenia, if we can look at their case and go on their case to look for economically potentially vital farms in a different environment, such as Haloz and similar areas. And that's what we're gonna do as soon as this call closes. Is it possible to promise that one day this call will be for, say, 20,000 farms? In fact, they are not such invitations to tender. The investment calls we have in Slovenia for about 400 million are very clear about the development of agriculture. They also have to some extent the potential to help those who live from agriculture, because those who live from agriculture and from something else are a little easier to adapt themselves because they also have an influx of income from elsewhere. At the same time, we have some objectives that we need to give them a priority. Clearly, one of these objectives is to start projects that we run through this money and make a few reservations for us, other projects are linked to training in forestry, this is also important in these situations and we have 60 million available for that. Then there is one large group, which is the highest priority, this is the use of Slovenian and European money to adapt to climate change. So it is impossible to expect that the largest part of the investment money available would be given through such measures, but one part of it could be given, but we need to know the objective. In this particular measure, the aim was to help farms with the potential of once-in-a-lifetime viable farms. At this point, there is also a relative possibility that all the money available, that is 20 million, will not be used, and on this basis we will be able to draw up a new objective quite simply. Nevertheless, this objective must be such that it can be explained professionally. At least our ministry's proposal will also look at the situation in Crassus, which is somewhat specific to the rest of agriculture, and I believe that we will also have your support in such thinking, Mr Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, please complete your reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u250	Dear Minister, thank you for the first part of your answer. My question also relates mainly to that part of the financial perspective or the programme for which the money was intended. I suppose so, and I will be happy if this does not end when the call is concluded – so if all the financial resources you mentioned, 20 million, are exhausted, then I will be happy. Surely the response to this segment is good in the field. Some have praised him. If you reach the goal of mobilising financial resources, then the goal is achieved. However, if there are not so many farms reported, and again I call you to ask that you should also mention Crassus, I think this is also a positive segment, if this is some goal you would or would achieve. [[…]] However, we must be aware, Minister, that this trend is that in three, four years we have lost quite a few small farms in Slovenia. I think there's over 2,000 of them. And this one-off aid, or paid in two parts, would be one important segment in order to stop this trend. I propose that, for the funds remaining on this call for small farms, you find the best way to get to those small farms. Either you lower the lower threshold from 3 to 2.5 or, as you suggested, you go with it, as you started in Haloza, then also on Crassus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mag. Dejan Židan, please, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u252	Just one piece of information, which is also possible, Mr Member, is important for farmers who contact you because I believe they are contacting you. We also have other invitations to tender for small farms, even smaller than the ones we are talking about. These are classic investment calls up to EUR 50 000. These calls are more administratively demanding, but not as much as all other agricultural calls – by the way, there is no need to keep accounting – so it is also reasonable to direct the farm to this part. Perhaps because you already mentioned the number of farms. While the available area is very slowly even slightly larger, the number of farms in Slovenia is declining after some natural process. These are not farms that are economically vital, these are mostly farms, where people are either professors or workers in factories, wherever they are, still grow a little bit and then stop at some point. This is why we have come to the conclusion that the average farm is no longer the same as it was a few years ago, i.e. in the size of 6.6 hectares, but the average farm is now 6.9 hectares, which I think is exactly three times less than the average farm in Europe. We have been brutally stopped by the consolidation and integration process at a time when we started with the European principle, and this is payment per hectare, because then, whatever the area is, whoever owns the agricultural land and also owns something small, has no interest in either renting or selling it to a neighbouring farmer. But where you get to a hectare I don't know 200, 300, sometimes even 500 euros, this financial leverage that stopped some kind of natural restructuring in our country. Once again, I would like to point out that there are very few farms within these farms that stop production where farmers live from or only from agricultural activities. In most cases, it is those who, while they have a job somewhere, still have land to farm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Cuz will ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go, Mr. Chush.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u254	Thank you. Once again a nice greeting to all present! It has been about 5 years since the inhabitants of Ptuj, Haloz and Slovenian Mountains fought to build an emergency centre on Ptuj. Whatever we are looking at, even in history, the Ptuj Emergency Center was included in the network of emergency centres, then another government threw it out, and then about five years ago there was a fight for the Ptuj Emergency Centre in the National Assembly and that historic Health Committee on which, I can say, with a majority or unanimously confirmed proposal for the Ptuj Emergency Centre to be included in the emergency centres network. Despite some of the activities carried out by the local communities, Members of Parliament, it is still unfortunately all on paper. The problem is so-called own resources. Allow me to read a short cut of the letter from the economists to the Prime Minister: »We successfully completed our fund-raising exercise at the General Hospital of Dr. Jožet Potrča Ptuj in October 2017. Incentives of the action, i.e. Talum, Ptuj and Finakos, together with other companies and individuals, managed to raise 331 thousand 518.14 euros. In October 2017 we informed the competent ministry of the amount of the funds collected, which are intended exclusively to cover the own share of the General Hospital Ptuj in the construction project of the emergency centre Ptuj.” It also supported all 19 companies in Podnji Podrava with an additional 300 000 euros, regardless of the need to raise funds elsewhere in Slovenia. I can tell you that the Youth Council of the Municipality of Ptuj went even so far as to hire a phone number 090, not for the purposes of a hotline, but for the fact that they collected funds using calls. And what is the result today? The delegation of responsibility to the Ministry shall continue with the Minister in charge, who shall constantly invent new conditions regarding the provision of funds raised. By signing the consortium contract for the purpose of building the Ptuj Emergency Centre and its confirmation on the municipal councils and on the city council, the municipalities have clearly committed themselves to providing funds for this purpose also in the budgets for this year. The current condition of the Ministry of Health that all municipalities should submit the adopted budgets for this year is purely misappropriation and more than the obvious underestimation of the local population and of course of other actors. Before continuing in the second part, I am interested in the answers to three specific questions: Why are there new restrictions and conditions? Are the funds provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia? Which municipalities, if not yet, have not delivered receipts of budgets? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u256	Dear Members, Members, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Council. I am very pleased to ask this question and to tell you that I strongly reject these allegations, which you have said, that the Ministry is with me constantly and constantly inventing. I don't know which good master would start an investment that grew from the original 2.4 million euros to almost 3.5 million without a closed financial structure. And let's go in line, because you know, I already have this saga, unfortunately – I would like to finish it a long time ago, or if all the actors were to act, as they write and say, the third construction phase of this unfortunate emergency centre Ptuj could actually be completed. I will not let go of the reasons why he was released in the past government, what the plans were, but very briefly, to explain the facts and what the reasons why we cannot go to the government with the amendment of the programme, the closed financial structure from the original 2,493 000 609 euros to what was now under the new programme, 3 million 398 000 981.89 euros. As I have said many times before, I – I will speak to the first person of the unit or, if you like, the Ministry of Health – have managed to provide the necessary financial resources, i.e. the participation of the Ministry of Emergency Centre in Ptuj type C, as it has been according to the criteria of the entire network. If I hadn't gotten involved like that, this money would have collapsed a long time ago because it was already provided in the 2015 budget. You are well aware that investment in integral work, if not used, should be returned to the Ministry of Finance. Thank God there has been so much success and so much negotiation that we have managed to put this money into the budget fund over the financial year, where it is still waiting today to ensure all the conditions for us to go into this investment. Thus, the transfer from 2015 to 2016, from 2016 to 2017 and again this year from 2017 to 2018. Ptuj Hospital, after doing the programme's amendment, came to the conclusion that this centre will not only cost 2 million 549 thousand and several more euros, but, as I have already mentioned, 3 million 399 thousand euros. According to the last funding source structure, the financing is as follows: General Hospital Ptuj EUR 229 thousand 517, local community, consortium contract, of which little later, 300 thousand 193, donations of economists notified by the Ministry of Health, EUR 320 thousand 146.99 and the Ministry of Health totalling EUR 908 thousand 936 and the additional EUR 600 thousand to be transferred by the Ministry of Health from the budget reserve of the Ministry of Finance, which I have agreed with the Minister on the condition that the real estates held in the management of the Ptuj Hospital today will be transferred to the management of the home of the elderly to the Ministry of Finance, which I have agreed with the Minister on the condition that they are missing from the closure of the entire structure. Unfortunately, after a number of emergencies – Mr. Chuš, I can list here the dates of my appointments, sent to the Ministry of Labour, and some other departments – I do not yet have a certificate or statement from the home of the elderly in Ptuj that he will really need these lands, real estates for his enlargements. Ptuj Hospital stated that it strategically does not need these properties and that it can withdraw them. And, of course, we cannot implement the agreement for EUR 600,000. Also with regard to the obligations of the consortium contract of the Ptuj Hospital to conclude with the local community – we have not yet received any contracts to the Ministry, and the deadline was 31. 12. 2017.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mr. Chus, I presume you'll request a supplement to the answer. Here you go, Mr. Chush.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u258	Madam Minister, whatever we are looking at, of course you have had a very important impact and have been on the ground several times, and I must be honest with you and say that I do not have all the information myself. Since you are seeing someone from Ptuj on several occasions at the Ministry of Health, we are not informed of this nor are we aware of the conclusions of these meetings. At these meetings, there are some other people with what government parties from Ptuj, and we who are elected, and from these information processes, can say, excluded, even though we were at the beginning of the State Assembly in the Health Committee, we were the ones who triggered it, despite the fact that many said to us: "Look, don't force yourself. This is meaningless here, it makes no sense, because everything is arranged and Ptuj will not see the E.R..” But our stubbornness, I can tell, has led us to run into your hearings and to talk about it today. I myself believe that the financial structure of this project has been completed with the funds raised. I didn't know about this letter from the Retired House of Ptuj and, of course, I will also, as far as I can, check what's going on here. But we all have the same interest together – to build the emergency centre of Ptuj as soon as possible, because the local community of Lower Podravje needs it as soon as possible. I'd certainly like to hear it from you. This for the consortium contract, nice and right, I would say that if this was signed, agreed upon at the College of Mayors of Lower Podravje, the mayors signed statements together for 300 000 euros, a man would somehow expect you to commit to it also legally and that this is true. Of course I'll check it out too and see what's going on. However, I would like to know why it is still necessary for the congregations to deliver a special confirmation of the budgets adopted this year, and of course I would also ask you to tell me which congregations have not yet done so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u260	The consortium contract is a roof contract in which the mayors have indeed committed themselves to putting this item into their budgets and to conclude individual contracts with the Ptuj Hospital when these budgets are adopted by the municipal or city councils. The municipality of Ptuj has undertaken to make a model of this contract by 31. 12. 2017 and will even be concluded. Because look, otherwise it's like a letter of intent. We can commit ourselves, but if, say, the municipal council does not accept the budget, even though this item is in, of course, this money is not. That's why only two matters matter. We have everything ready to go to the Government immediately with this new investment value, with this financial structure, but we need this moment – I don't even have the information, which municipalities have already adopted budgets, which are not and where this item is actually inside – this contract and the opinion of this home of the elderly that it needs to be expanded so that, as I have agreed with the Ministry of Finance and is also my good will and commitment, with the budget reserve, I will get 600 000 for this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Chuš, please, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u262	Thank you very much. I thank you for these specific answers. If I understand correctly, it is a summary of your answers that it is necessary to remind the City Municipality of Ptuj and the mayor to finally bring these contracts forward and to have them all signed and delivered to you, of course. First. And secondly, the House of the Retired Ptuj must be made clear if it is also the public interest. Thank you very much, we know roughly what to do in the local community and what we must do by being chosen from people. I thank you and I hope that we will be as quick as possible, because you know that Ptuj will have a slow meal, and this is a very happy time, but allow me to invite you, as a token of my gratitude, to these days between the Ptuj beans to see one of the most beautiful carnivals in Europe, if not in the world. However, as far as procedural procedures are concerned, I will not give it, but since I have to give it, it is a proposal to continue the meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u263	Thank you very much. This is an abuse of the Rules of Procedure, because thanks are not in the Rules of Procedure, because then any Member could thank him in the fourth stage. Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go, Dr. T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u264	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister! I am interested in one very simple thing or reasons for the failure of the competent authorities and their delay in the application of illegal construction at the address in Koper, parcel number 127 in the cadastral municipality of Koper. The decision authorising the implementation of the notified works for this property or on this parcel was issued in September 2001, became legally binding one month later and the decision allowed the building to replace the roof covering, the production of new wall and ceiling obstacles, the replacement of windows and external doors, and the creation of a new facade barrier. Instead of these envisaged works, the investor raised the house one floor, built an external concrete plate, concrete staircase, and so on. In short, all the things that weren't part of the building permit. In August 2008, one of the neighbours first submitted an application for illegal construction to the Environment and Space Inspectorate, which confirmed the application 2 weeks later by letter to the applicant, and within the next 8 months the applicant called on the Inspectorate for action because there was no supervision. In 2009, the Inspectorate replied that the procedure had not yet been initiated and the notifier of the same year proposed to the Ministry of Public Administration the initiation of supervision of the work of the authorities. MJU has so often called on the inspectorate to respond to this application, but these ERs have simply ignored it. In the next 6 years, the applicant submitted a written application to the Environment and Space Inspectorate and to the Transport, Energy and Space Inspectorate four more times. The latest application was made on 18 August 2015. The applicant asked you personally for an intervention, 18. 5. However, 2016 also requested the head of the IRSOP Koper unit to intervene in the application. To date, this regional unit has not issued any opinion on this declaration of illegal construction in this case. So we're talking about a good 16-year delay or a 16-year-old procedure. I would understand that it would take a few years because it might not be an urgent matter, but 16 years is probably a very long time. That is why I am interested in: How is it possible that the inspection procedures are so long? Why do the authorities not respond to multiple reports of illegal construction? Why was it not supervised by the MJU?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u266	Dear President, honourable Members! Mr Vatovec, Commissioner, thank you for the question. Similar questions have been asked by the Ministry of Environment and Space many times. Why? Because it was in state 10. 8. 2017 5 thousand 572 cases filed, 468 cases, a thousand 477 general cases and 11 thousand 934 administrative inspection cases. With regard to how old your case is, I can only ensure that at times 120 construction and urban inspectors were employed at the inspectorate for the premises, today there are 75 of them and, of course, this number is shrinking considerably, especially if I can say that it is on the ground, so on the ground, 66 construction inspectors. In the inspections currently carried out by staff-supported staff of construction inspectors, the number of pending applications, inspections, unrealised executions, insufficient financial resources, we cannot in any way adequately ensure a reduction in backlogs at work, reduce the duration of the proceedings and, in this context, ensure an effective part of the construction inspection expected from citizens, the professional public and other supervisory authorities. The key emphasis in the work of the construction inspection is set out in the annual construction inspection plan, which sets out 7 thousand inspections, representing regular inspections and extraordinary inspections. However, in the past, the Court of Auditors has found that, in 2011 and 2012, construction inspectors carried out only a small number of regular inspections in 2011 and 2012. For this reason, the Construction Inspectorate has adopted measures to increase the regular checks and has adopted an activity plan for the period 2016-2018, which, with the unaltered legislation and staffing, we plan to redistribute regular reviews by the end of 2018 according to the basic tasks by organising targeted actions with which the Head of Inspectorate ensures that the planned number of regular checks is also carried out for each year. The gradual transition to reallocation of regular inspections carried out, taking into account all the basic tasks of the construction inspection, was confirmed by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, we must respect it. Each year, a larger volume of regular work also affects the quantity of numerous applications considered – and this is not my statement, which is a statement of inspection – “most of them follow only the personal interests of the applicants”. Once again, that's not my name, that's the sign of an inspection that has all these applications. I would also like to say that, following the adoption of the new construction law, the Constitutional Court has also issued a decision relating to the previous Construction Act concerning the construction or demolition of buildings which serve to accommodate people. In this regard, too, there will be even greater backlogs in the future, or we are now preparing an appropriate solution at the Ministry in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, please. Will you request a supplement to the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u268	Thanks for the answer. It is clear to me that a large number of such inspections have been made, not least of all Slovenians, after this, it is clear to me that the number of inspectors has decreased due to the crisis and austerity measures, but this is not the answer I expected or I have not asked this question. I don't think 16 years for one procedure is a reasonable time. We know that our judicial mills take a lot of time to come to conclusions, but for one inspection procedure, for which your ministry, as well as the Ministry of Public Administration, has sent more offices and called on the inspectorate to do something in this direction, it's probably not acceptable or normal. My question was very clear. This is one very specific example, but it can probably also be applied on the basis of the statistics you mentioned, to the fact that we obviously have a problem. Are you planning on doing something about it? 16 years for one procedure is simply unsustainable. But I cannot shake off any other circumstance that is related to this particular case, and this is that one of these blacksmiths is related to a businessman in Grafist, who is working very closely with the Municipality of Koper. In 2003 and 2017, the Municipality of Koper concluded with the company for more than 33 million transactions. I want to know: Is it possible that the inspectorate did not act because of the influence of another person? Second question: Are you going to take concrete action on this particular case? How are you going to solve the problems that the inspectors obviously have? But 16 years, once again, I find it very unreasonable and long-term.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u270	Thank you. Commissioner, I must tell you that as Minister in specific matters, I do not have any powers. I already explained that today. I can say it again, you might understand exactly what I'm talking about. It is a bridge in the salty saltlands, when the bridge inspector, who was also transported for a 10-ton truck the previous day, closed for all traffic, that is to say for pedestrians. Inspectors are independent in their procedures and decisions. That's what everyone who knows about the work of inspectors knows, and I know it myself. It is true that at the Ministry of the Environment and the premises of such applications individuals are not recorded as the beginning of an administrative procedure. Administrative procedures or the initiation of inspection services shall be opened on an official basis. I believe, indeed, that all those who use such applications and want such a procedure to be carried out, do so with some personal interest, or their desire, is credible for them, but the question is how objectively credible this is. I admit that the situation in the congregation that you described, I do not know, but if what you said here is very real, we have institutions that can verify it and that is how they act. The fact is that in many procedures – but what I am explaining to you now is more practice from the field – inspectors can also close a procedure if the municipality changes the requirements or spatial plan or the PUP. The way to resolving matters is therefore not always an inspector's decision, execution or demolition, but there are many ways to go. In this part, it is certain that customers will benefit and implement if this is the debtor that the Inspector examines. If I speak in general, we cannot say that all the procedures that I have said there are about 19,000 and some, in the background or in the absence of legal options. Unfortunately, I cannot confirm this and therefore my real personal assessment is that the implementation of all these measures – I admit that I have also talked to the Ombudsman and is not satisfied with my response, but – is impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will ask the Minister of Finance of Magi a question. Mateji Vraničar Erman, who is duly absent, and Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Petr Gasperšić. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u272	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister Peter Gasperšič, I welcome you very much and I regret that there is no magic in our society. Mateje Vraničar Erman to get more complex answers to the questions I am dealing with and dealing with the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, which has intensive discussions on the future of the European Union and on the future of Slovenia. We are looking for solutions, we have some of them, we are looking for answers to questions about what Slovenia will be like in 10 years. In 10 years' time, the year will be 2028 and two years from now it will be 2030, which is the anniversary of the strategy on alternative fuels in the transport sector adopted by the Government last October. This implies, inter alia, that after 2030 only electric cars will be allowed to register for the first time in Slovenia. It is said that you will no longer be able to register with a newly purchased vehicle that will use petrol or diesel. The government has committed itself to acting in accordance with the strategy with incentives, subsidies and perhaps some restrictions. Mr. Secretary, first of all, I'd like to ask you: What are they like, and what will these measures be like? The state strategy foresees around 200,000 electric vehicles by 2030. 200 000 electric cars would require 4% more energy and up to 50% stronger overall network. The low-voltage network should be strengthened by two or three times. The network should be upgraded five times faster than it is today. I also want to know: How to feed the 200 000 electric cars envisaged by the state strategy in 2030? These are key and very important issues. Interestingly, a very graphic statement by Andrej Ribič, President of the Management Board of Elektro Ljubljana, is critical and says that he estimates that the country has started building a house at the chimney, not at the foundations, as regards e-mobility or electromobility. Mr Minister, I myself, on three sides in my announcement of the oral question of the Member State, have mentioned a number of measures, and I would like you to define yourself to do so. One of the measures to stimulate e-mobility is certainly non-payment of income credit for electric service vehicles, exemption from or reduction of the price of wine, free urban parking, cheaper registration and insurance, driving by bus and taxi fares where there are at least two passengers in the car, and so on. I've given you all the details. I've proposed nine measures. The measures should, of course, be temporary and should apply until the prices of electric and fossil-powered vehicles are levelled or the appropriate share of electric vehicles in the Slovenian rolling stock is reached. Which good practices Member States will also implement Slovenia [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u274	Thank you, President, for your word. I would also like to thank Mr Horvat, honourable Member, for his extremely important question, the issue of electricity mobility, which is one of the measures we want to achieve the goal of decarbonising transport, which is one of the most important objectives both at European level and at Slovenia's level. To achieve the decarbonisation of transport, we also have several measures in the Transport Development Strategy, from walking, cycling, the use of public passenger transport to promoting the sharing of vehicles, and electric mobility is one of the key measures by which we can achieve the decarbonisation objective. In line with this objective, i.e. promoting electricity mobility, and also in line with the requirements of the European directives, last year the Government adopted an Alternative Fuel Strategy, which is – this is recognised by others – one of the more ambitious strategies in the Member States of the European Union. I should have corrected you here because you said that in 2030 it would no longer be possible to register new petrol vehicles. This is not entirely true because the strategy assumes that after 2025 it will be possible to register passenger vehicles with discharges up to 100 grams per kilometre. This is achieved today by, say, conventional hybrid vehicles or purely more cost-effective diesel or petrol vehicles. After 2030, it will be allowed to register passenger vehicles with emissions up to 50 grams per kilometre, which today, in addition to electric vehicles, are already fulfilling, say, all connected hybrid vehicles, where we are talking about the combination of electric engines and engines to internal combustion. These are, therefore, the objectives set by this strategy. As you have already mentioned, 200,000 vehicles are supposed to be in the fleet, which means 17% of vehicles, which can be achieved if we successfully double the number of newly registered electric vehicles over the next few years. For example, in 2016 they were registered around 180, in 2017 we reregistered 350, and if this pace continued this year, 700 and so on and would come somewhere in 2025 to the numbers where we would register 10,000 new vehicles annually or perhaps even more, which would mean a fifth of all new vehicles sold under the annual vehicle sales quota. It was also asked how we would feed these vehicles. Of course, there is also an important challenge for our electricity system, especially before distribution. Solutions are smart grids, including smart chargers. I have recently attended a conference, because large and important movements are also foreseen in this area, i.e. the chargers will become smart so that they will allow not only the charging of vehicles, but also the taking of energy from vehicles and thus balance their consumption. In short, these are all things that are coming and that will allow electrical mobility to be feasible in practice. Here are also energy storage systems, solar power plants on houses that will supply these vehicles in combination. All these are things we're going to have to encourage. Otherwise, on the basis of the strategy adopted last year, we are also preparing an action plan at the Ministry to provide for measures to achieve these objectives in the strategy. This Action Plan will define the first three-year period in 2020 and includes measures that you have already identified. To a large extent, they are virtually identical, in addition to the already known subsidies we receive through the Eco Fund, here are the exemption from the annual duty already in force and the reduction of the credit rating from 1.5% to 0.3%, saying a fifth of the credit rating, these are the proposals that we still need to regulate with the Ministry of Finance. All these parking facilities, use the third lane and so on, which are also recommendations that have already been made [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, here's your supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I'd like to give you a chance to proceed. I am pleased that you have identified some of my proposals as useful. Here I want to encourage you, although some people think that the strategy is not ambitious, it is actually the most important action plan for me. This must be ambitious, and here you have my support, a truly ambitious e-mobility action plan in Slovenia. I will continue the discussion with the Minister of Finance on amendments to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act. I've got some solutions here, and I'm also pointing to a few anomalies, and I say, the world is wrong. This will need to be considered at the Ministry of Finance and I expect its corrective response. Maybe even for you about my proposal to amend the Motor Vehicle Act. I want to briefly describe a solution that would require a change to the Motor Vehicle Act. Following the example of Austria, Mr Minister, let the law provide a solution, as the Austrians have known for a long time. We would therefore allow the registration of two cars with one license plate. Example: To an Austrian citizen who owns two vehicles because he can only use one vehicle at the same time, Austrian legislation allows him to transfer license plates from one to the other, while registration and insurance are paid for more expensive ones. So, just for one vehicle. Here, Mr Minister, I would like you to define yourself to this proposal as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u278	Thank you very much. I'm afraid I'm going to pick up the minister all the time. I don't know if he's going to take another shot. With regard to this action plan, I can only say this: these are just the things that we are now coordinating with the Ministry of Finance, so I expect that the matter will be dealt with and adopted in the Government in a short time. With regard to the proposal you are mentioning that two vehicles would have one registration following the example they have in Austria, I must say that this is a rather unique solution in the European Union, which causes quite a few problems, so that we are not too inclined or not inclined to do so. This is mainly a case where, for example, regular registration attempts to solve the problems of an old-timer, which is regulated by the possibility of a very favourable registration for old-time vehicles. So I don't even see any added value in this kind of opaque situation when the records are mixed. In addition, I know that there are also specific solutions to the use of vineyards and so on. In short, it is a really specific solution that is being used in Austria, and we are not inclined to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Joseph Horvat, procedurally. I would also like to ask you to define yourself to the manner in which Mrs Minister, who is not, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u280	Mr. Minister, I would like to thank you for this dialogue. Just because you said that you are now having intensive discussions with the Ministry of Finance, I think that the debate in the National Assembly, which I propose, which allows me to have a Rules of Procedure, is very useful for the Government, that is, for you and the Ministry of Finance, to actually hear what Members think about e-mobility, about what kind of traffic we want in 2030. Slovenia is known for being a green destination. This is also why we have more tourists in Slovenia every year and we need to make sure that we keep it. Why should we not also be involved in electricity mobility among champions within the European Union? In addition, we need to know that some countries after 2030 will ban entry by vehicles with petrol engines or diesel engines. We have some good practices within the European Union and it would also suggest that they should be implemented in our solutions, i.e. in this action plan and in the case of possible changes to certain laws. I am impressed by the solutions adopted in Norway. There they have a lot of oil and they strongly stimulate citizens to actually buy electric cars. That's the kind of policy I'd like to have with us. I believe that – now that we are actually ahead of the elections, we would not be thinking about just a four-year election programme or some of the sugars that someone in pre-election promises to be actually one thorough reflection here in the National Assembly on the future, what Slovenia will be like in ten years' time, what Slovenia will be like in 2030. And in this context, I would also like to set up a debate on electromobility, and I am sure that the Government would help draw up an action plan to make it, and I want it as ambitious as possible. However, I wish you a great deal of success here, especially in negotiating with other departments.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u281	Thank you very much, Mr. Joseph Horvat. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr Marko Ferruga will ask the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić, and to the Minister of Finance of Mags. Matei Vraničar Erman, who you know is justly absent. Here you go, Mr. Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u282	Thank you for your word. Good evening to the last three mojicans and the minister! This is an interesting article from 13 December 2017 – Beware of the workers “electrica”. This is one of the articles in the Journal24. I wouldn't go to where this story starts, the following facts were exposed. As a result of the European directive, Elektro Primorska set up E3 in order to separate a market action from a distribution action, which is not disputed. However, E3 does not sell electricity directly, but it has concluded a contract with another company, Etrad3. All of this would still work, if it were not for the last company dealing with the acquisition work, here too the Market Inspectorate has already found some misleading business practices, but this is not essential. It is essential that this last company cooperates with some company in the tax oasis and in this way it could be said that it almost avoids tax and income in Slovenia. A number of such questions have been raised here. That is why I am interested, by the Ministry of Infrastructure and by the Ministry of Finance, I will then also ask for answers in writing to clarify the circumstances of the following facts. For the first time, that Elektro Primorska responded to these allegations and this article did not respond at all and did not deny or deny it. Secondly, Elektro Primorska, which is owned by the Republic of Slovenia, cooperates with a company established in the tax haven. Thirdly, how does the state plan to deal with corporate governance and all these high-flying words to engage in business in its companies, in particular as regards business with companies with tax havens, because we well know that European regulations prevent them from cooperating with companies, not to mention that these companies are actually beyond our reach. How do the management of the company, the supervisory board of the company and SDH comment, and how will they respond to this issue? Because if we continue with such practices, then he is in compliance with Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u284	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you so much for asking me that question. Here, too, I am responding in combination with the Minister of Finance, and if earlier in explaining the issue of electricity mobility, I have been running out of time, but I will be very brief here, and I am counting on most of the explanations given later by the Minister of Finance, because we have also learned about this issue from the newspaper articles, we have not been otherwise informed about this. Although the Ministry of Infrastructure, as you are probably aware, is not responsible for the ownership or corporate management of Elektro Primorska, which is legally the responsibility of the Slovenian State Holding. So I leave these answers to their jurisdiction. However, as far as I know, as regards the issue mentioned in the article, the competent authorities, these are the Market Inspectorate, and FURS, I think, also the Anti-Money Laundering Office, have initiated appropriate procedures. I am counting on the competent institutions to carry out their work, but as regards the activities related to corporate governance and also through SDH, I am counting on this information to be made publicly available by the supervisory boards of the companies and that, I am sure, they will be able to deny the allegations that have been made in the media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u285	Thank you very much. One last question. Mr Luka Mesec will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. The spring Györkös Žnidar, which is rightly absent. Here you are, Mr Mesec, and I would also like to ask you to define yourself to the way in which you respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u286	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! I think it's my last turn. I'd like the Minister to answer me orally at the next meeting. I have a question about the wire at the border. We have been critical of the entire mandate in Levika until the wire is installed. This is a barbaric project with which, unfortunately, the current government has entered the history of this country, on the other hand, it is a project that continues to make people's lives more difficult at the border. From the border municipalities of Croatia, we hear what problems they have, from the fact that boats cannot access water, to the fact that they restrict tourism and that, for the last time in a municipality, even firefighters were unable to reach water because they did not have the keys to the panel fence, and so on. At the same time, a basket is paid around the wire, and farmers are still receiving compensation for the land occupied by the wire. My questions are: When is the Ministry of the Interior planning to remove this wire? Can we expect steps to be taken against this before the end of this government's mandate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-22-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u287	Thank you very much. I thank the ministers and ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government for the answers given. I hereby terminate the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue tomorrow, on 23 January, when the National Assembly decides on the decisions. I am also adjourning the 37th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. All of you have a nice night together.
