ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Monika Gregorčič, Andrej Šircelj, Branislav Rajić, Samo Bevk, Franc Trček, Bojana Muršič from 13:00 on, Franz Breznik, Marijan Pojbič, Lidija Dijak Mirnik, Predrag Baković by 12 noon on, Ferenc Horváth from 12:00 on, Felice Žiža, Suzanne Leup Šimenko, Branko Simonovic from 11.30 on, Violeta Tomić, Franz Jurša from 11.30 on, Ivan Hršak from 13.30, Ludmila Novak from 17.30 on and Iva Dimic. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 21. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for an agreement on the programme of work and the financial plan of the Energy Agency for the year 2019. In accordance with Article 399(5) of the Energy Act, the Energy Agency submitted the 2019 work programme and the financing plan of the Energy Agency to the National Assembly. In order to further explain the work programme and the financial plan, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer to the Director of the Agency for Energy Mag. Bugs of the Year. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, welcome! Energy is faced with major challenges and challenges that must enable the sustainable use of natural resources and at the same time the competitiveness and security of energy supply due to the obligation to meet environmental objectives and technological progress. This is reflected in the increased use of renewable resources, greater energy efficiency and the use of new technologies. Digitalisation and informationisation of energy management and open markets increasingly involve the final customer, as new technologies enable him to participate in the active management of electricity, both in its production and in the demand adjustment process. The recent World Energy Council 2018 assessment of Slovenia ranks 6th on the country scale in terms of performance in ensuring a secure and affordable energy system, which also takes into account the principles of environmental sustainability and even second place in energy security itself. However, there are still many challenges to achieving such a development path that will focus on the efficient use of new technologies to successfully achieve the objectives set. In developing the energy market and implementing energy policy, the Energy Agency as a national regulatory authority in the field of electricity and natural gas markets plays an important role. We have our powers to influence the development of safe, reliable and efficient systems for the transmission and distribution of electricity and natural gas. We monitor and monitor the functioning of the market, regulate distribution networks of heat and promote the production of electricity from renewable sources. In doing so, we must take into account the objectives of energy policy and seek the best solutions and benefits for all energy market players, of course from the current and expected future situations. We have also prepared a work programme for 2019 on the basis of strategic objectives and orientations. Each programme shall contain a description of the legal basis, content, purpose and objectives, performance indicators, deadlines and risks that accompany us in carrying out all tasks. In line with the Agency’s annual objectives, the priorities of the tasks outlined and the main priorities for the next year are defined. These include: monitoring and analysis of operations and action in the event of any deviations from the regulatory framework of the Agency in both electricity supply and natural gas, analysis of operations and possible decision-making on new baseline heat supply prices, the issue of agreement on operator system operating instructions, the implementation of two public calls for the subsidisation of electricity production from renewable sources, supervision in terms of prevention of cross-subsidisation, market abuse or manipulation on the electricity and natural gas market, continuous market monitoring aimed at keeping market participants informed of the most important indicators and the preparation of a state of energy report, which is also received every year by the National Assembly. The Energy Agency as an independent energy regulator shall be financed from annual compensations for transmission operators of electricity and natural gas and from other sources. In view of the projected increase in electricity consumption, the Agency will not be further burdened by customers, nor will it plan any additional employment. Thus, in 2019 we will also carry out our tasks cost-effectively and in a cost-effective manner and in the interest of all energy market participants. Staff working and training will focus on a proactive role in all areas of the functioning of the energy market, so we are confident that we will achieve the objectives set and successfully carry out the tasks outlined. We therefore propose to the National Assembly that the 2019 work programme and the financing plan of the Agency for Energy be endorsed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The Agency’s work programme and financial plan were considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the parent working body, which proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for a decision on the agreement to the 2019 Work Programme and the Agency’s financial plan for energy. I give the floor to President Edward Paulic to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u4	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 4th meeting, held on 11. 2018 as a parent working body, considered the 2019 work programme and financial plan of the Agency for Energy, which was forwarded to the National Assembly by the Energy Agency. The Director of the Mag Agency gave the introductory explanation. Duška Year and, like today, presented the main highlights of the Agency's operation and details of its financial plan. The 2019 work programme and the financing plan of the Agency for Energy was also considered by the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, supported and assessed as transparent and understandable. In the debate of the members and members of the Committee, support for the work programme was expressed by all the debaters, as they believe it is prepared transparently and adequately to pursue the objectives of the Agency. However, the debate raised some questions raised by the Director of the Agency. With regard to the risk assessment of the work programme, the issue of the specific risks was raised and the opinion expressed that it would be more appropriate to define them in the future and to specify measures to measure them. The Director of the Agency explained that they pose the highest risk to the Agency’s work of unplanned tasks or to the increased volume of work in a given field and to the Agency’s limitations in new employment. The Agency, as an analytical institution, occasionally encounters a large amount of data, and this also requires an increased level of human resources. With regard to the opinion that the Agency should pay more attention to the biomass market, it was explained that the Agency does not regulate the whole market, but only activities which have the status of natural monopoly. It is therefore for companies that own electricity and natural gas transmission and distribution infrastructure. The Agency shall be responsible only for the performance of those tasks entrusted to it by the Energy Act. For any extension of the scope of the Agency's tasks, the law should be amended. On the question of whether the electricity and natural gas stand shows the cost of operation of the Agency, it was explained that it was not directly identified. The Agency shall be financed mainly by the compensation of the two system operators and the Agency shall be covered within the cost of the network. Regarding the issue of the high cost of computer equipment in recent years, the Director explained that it was a period of intensive investment in computer equipment and programmes. It was necessary to update the information system by implementing the Energy Law, which conferred extensive powers and tasks on the Agency, and the regulation which binds the Agency in the field of monitoring of market abuses and manipulation. This ensured a higher level of safety. In this way, the Agency has also gained access to the Central Register of the European Energy Regulators Agency and thus to all data on the energy market. This makes it possible to monitor and analyse trade data and consequently make it easier to carry out control procedures. In the Agency’s work programme for 2019, investment in computer equipment is lower and such a trend is expected in the future. Following the discussion, the 14-vote committee voted in favour of and against the decision proposing to the National Assembly that it adopt a decision on its agreement to the 2019 Work Programme and the Agency's financial plan for energy.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Franc Rosec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, chairman. Honourable Director of the Agency, colleagues and colleagues! The Agency shall be the national regulatory authority in the field of electricity, natural gas and heat supply regulation. The Agency’s programme of work for 2019 in the field of economic regulation is aimed at analysing and monitoring the compliance of companies with the Agency’s rules adopted this year. The Agency will also monitor and monitor the energy market and its findings will help energy companies decide on their investments. In the area of electricity generation from renewable sources, the Agency will continue to implement the support scheme and publish two calls for entry into service facilities producing electricity from renewable sources. As regards financial operations, it is clear that resources for financing are not increasing nor are new jobs foreseen. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the work programme and the Agency's financial plans for energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Igor Peček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u8	Dear President, colleague and colleague, distinguished Director! In 2018, the Agency adopted new rules to determine the costs of the network. This sets out the eligible costs as well as the revenues of operators and operators supplying natural gas. The work of the Agency will thus focus on the area of economic regulation and on the monitoring of business compliance with the newly adopted rules. In the area of promoting renewable electricity production, we support the activities of the Agency in the implementation of the support scheme. More activities in 2019 are expected in the area of hot water supply, as distributors will have to arrange new applications for agreement to start prices. We are also pleased to announce that the Agency will also receive European grants for the first time in the following year. These will be designed to monitor the implementation of new technological solutions in the development of smart grids. The report also states that the Agency in the cost area will follow the direction of past years in 2019. The financial plan for 2019 shows a 7 % increase in revenue and lower expenditure compared to 2018. At the same time, it is envisaged to increase labour costs by almost 9%, representing a 73% share in the revenue structure. We expect that the work of the Agency will be effective and that the cost of operating at the expense of the projected increased volume of activity will remain unchanged and will follow the objectives set out in the work programme. In the website Marjan Šarca, we agree with the work programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u10	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues, the director of the agency! The Energy Agency, as the national energy market regulator, has a very important task and responsibilities, which have significantly increased by the adoption of the Energy Law in 2014. The Agency's tasks, which are foreseen in the work programme and in the Agency's financial plan for 2019, could be placed in several sets. The Agency has an important role to play in regulating network activities by controlling the correctness of the charging of network operators in the supply of electricity. The most important thing is that networks are not charged over eligible costs as end-users eventually cover a higher energy supply price. The Agency shall carry out controls to verify that operators invest sufficiently in the capacity of distribution networks, thereby allowing for efficient supply and adequate quality of electricity and natural gas, promoting the production of electricity from renewable energy sources where the Agency has the power to issue declarations to investors of renewable energy generation plants, as well as to decide to obtain support from such electricity producers. Control of the functioning of the electricity and natural gas market is a very important task. In this area, stakeholders are directly committed to the so-called REMIT Regulation by which the Agency has powers and the duty of continuous market monitoring and the implementation of measures if it finds a breach. It shall take care of the protection of the rights of consumers, where it is essential for the Agency to decide on disputes between users and operators, and shall, inter alia, ensure that consumers are properly informed, in particular in their capacity and rights. The Energy Agency takes into account the interests and rights of both operators and final consumers in its operation, but the Social Democrats believe that its role should be more stressed in protecting the weaker categories, these are undoubtedly end-users. As a rule, the consumer will ultimately be burdened by any unduly charged euro in cases where any disruption in the supply of energy or delivery of poor energy will go primarily to its detriment, and therefore the role of the Agency in this regard is very important. Finally, we would like to point out that in the future, energy will be more closely linked at some level to social policy when we talk about the supply of different forms of energy to more vulnerable groups of consumers. Of course, we have in mind those who really have a hard time affording such services or who cannot afford them at all, and they urgently need them to achieve a minimum and a decent life. The Social Democrats will support the decision on agreement to the Work Programme and the Agency's financial plan for 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! Under the Energy Act, the Council of the Energy Agency shall adopt by 30 September of the current year a work programme and a financial plan of the Agency for the coming year. However, this work programme and the Agency's financial plan must be agreed upon by the National Assembly. The Agency's recent amendments to the Energy Act have identified an independent status of the Regulatory Agency for Energy, which is no longer defined as a public agency and where the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia exercises its constitutional rights. The Energy Agency, as the regulatory authority, monitors, directs and supervises energy operators in the field of electricity and natural gas and carries out statutory tasks to regulate energy operators in the field of heat and other energy gases. In doing so, it must take into account the objectives of energy policy. Following the consideration of the programme and the work of the financial plan at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, it was explained that the Agency would also closely monitor the operations of regulated companies in 2019 and, with its views and decisions, ensure that this operation is legally and cost-effectively. In 2019, the Agency will monitor the functioning of the electricity and natural gas market and prevent actions that reduce market competitiveness or affect consumers' rights. In 2019, 2 public calls for aid will be launched to encourage decisions on new investments in electricity generation from renewable energy sources. All the revenue planned by the Agency for 2019 will be from the implementation of the Agency’s public service, with 98 % of the Agency’s revenue representing the annual compensation of the system operator and the annual compensation of the transmission system operator. However, no additional employment is planned. The remaining 2% represent non-refundable European funds. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we believe that the Agency's 2019 Work Programme and Financial Plan has been set up ambitiously and that the Agency is carefully planning financial resources for the performance of its tasks, so we will support the Proposal for a Decision on Consent to the Agency's 2019 Work Programme and Financial Plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u13	Thank you. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Alexander Reberšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u14	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Energy Agency, as the national energy regulator in the energy market, is an important member of the energy law enforcement chain. The Agency’s main source of revenue is the annual compensation of the Plinovovoda transmission system operator, d.o.o., and the compensation of the system operator ELES, d.o.o. Given that it is financed from budgetary resources, it is welcome that the Agency will also obtain for the first time in 2019 European grants for a regulatory control project in the implementation of new technological solutions in the development of smart grids. The cost of doing business will not increase, nor will there be any new employment. This means that the operation of the Energy Agency will not additionally burden customers of electricity and natural gas, so in New Slovenia we will give our consent to its work programme and financial plan. Nevertheless, we stress the fact that Slovenia does not do enough in the area of self-sustainment with electricity and renewable energy sources. The use of renewable energy is becoming increasingly important both globally and at European level, as most countries are aware of the limited supply of non-renewable energy sources and their impact on climate change. In order to achieve energy security, reduce gas emissions and development, the European Union has set itself the objective of increasing the share of renewable energy in gross final energy consumption to 20% by 2020. Slovenia has set itself the targets set out in the 2010-2020 Action Plan for Renewable Energy and the National Energy Programme, which foresee 25% of the share of renewable energy in gross final energy consumption by 2020. Since we are still very far away from this goal, it is worrying to do bad things in this area. The Energy Agency is responsible for the implementation of the support scheme and the implementation of two €10 million public tenders next year will be a small step forward. If households and small business customers do not decide in large numbers for this type of energy, it is also the responsibility of the Government. The still long and complex administrative procedures, which are not cheap, are undoubtedly the main reason why Slovenia is lagging behind in this area. In Novi Slovenija, we will support the proposal for a decision on agreement to the Programme of Work and the Agency's financial plan for 2019.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u16	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The Energy Agency, which has its powers to influence the development of safe, reliable and efficient systems for the transmission and distribution of electricity and natural gas, presented its work programme and its financial plan for 2019. On the basis of this, we believe that the Agency can be expected to carry out, as so far as it has been responsible, the tasks of monitoring the functioning of the electricity and natural gas market, by its actions to prevent acts that reduce market competitiveness or affect the rights of consumers, and by demanding investigations to keep abreast of the situation of potential market abuse and market manipulation. We are pleased to note from the Agency that the customer is at the forefront of all decisions of the Agency, which does not only need to provide safe, reliable and sustainable care, but also to restore confidence in the market. It is right for such an authority to be aware of this and to do so within its powers and tasks. We believe that it is true from the very design of the programme that the Agency has placed an active customer, a consumer, first and foremost, while at the same time having the benefits and benefits of all energy market participants in its work. In the work programme and in the financial plan, the Agency presented its tasks, mission and long-term objectives in an extremely visual and transparent manner. We welcome the way in which certain tasks are presented, the simultaneous change in the implementation of the regulatory framework under which the Agency has set priorities for the task, state, objectives, performance indicators, deadlines, the necessary resources and the risk of their implementation. All the components listed are thus given in a very transparent and clear manner. We are pleased that the high risk of the tasks itself does not occur once, but we may want to see at least the present risk determine how the agency is prepared for it and what it will do if the risk comes true. We also welcome two clear calls for State aid to be granted, which the Agency is planning on the basis of the Government's action plan to promote electricity production from renewable sources. New investments that will exploit the sun, wind, water and other renewable sources for electricity production are of course invaluable. We are all aware that they are in the future and that the share of energy generated in this way will need to be increased. For each call, EUR 10 million is foreseen. From a financial point of view, the Agency stressed in particular that they have been operating cost-effectively for all years and that they are ensuring that the Agency’s operating costs do not increase. Accordingly, no additional employment is planned in 2019 even though the scope of their obligations has increased. The Agency’s main sources of revenue are still the annual compensations of the system operator ELES and the transmission system operator Plinovod and 2% of the revenue is for non-refundable European funds. It will certainly cheer customers up the data that the operation of the Agency will not be reflected in an increase in price or costs, both for electricity suppliers and for natural gas customers. I can conclude that the presentation of the Agency is thorough, precise and also understandable to layman. In particular, we are pleased that this has already been recognised by the Committee of the Labour Force and that we have agreed, both in terms of quality and transparency, that this is a very good work done. I can add, therefore, that we will support the financial plan in the Alenka Bratusek Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear director, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Ambassador of the Desus Group will support the decision on agreement to the 2019 Work Programme and the Agency's financial plan for energy. As each year, the Agency has also prepared a transparent and clear work programme and plans for next year. No specificities are expected and the Agency will be able to focus on the tasks performed as a national regulatory authority in the electricity and natural gas market without shock. As the Agency’s Director of the Agency’s work body said, it is currently in the decision-making phase and the publication of new tariff items which will apply for the next three-year regulatory period, so that in 2019 the Agency will focus mainly on analysing and monitoring business compliance with the Agency’s rules. The Energy Agency shall have the power to issue an energy report addressed by the competent labour body in the framework of the area of continuous monitoring and monitoring of the energy market. Of course, the Agency will carry out this task in the coming year, and, as the Director has said, will publish up-to-date information on the functioning of the energy market in Slovenia. This information is very important for companies when they decide to invest and for the country when designing energy policy as well as for individuals who use energy services. The Agency in the field of promoting electricity generation from renewable sources is not an energy policy maker, this is in the country's domain, and in this area the Agency has the power to implement the support scheme. In 2019 too, two public calls will be launched on the basis of the Government's Action Plan to promote electricity production from renewable sources. For each call, EUR 10 million is foreseen. I would like to say here that in the Desus Group we expect to realise the commitments made by the Republic of Slovenia to achieve a 25 per cent share of renewable energy by 2025. One way to achieve this is to build hydro power plants in the Central Sava, which we will also seek in the Desus Group in this mandate, of course if the new local community has an interest in implementing certain infrastructure projects already started. If we compare the Agency's work report for the past years and the financial plans for the future, we can find that the Agency is operating cost-effective because it does not increase its operating costs. Despite the increased scope of the Agency's activities, it does not plan any additional employment. Finally, let me reiterate that the Members of the Desus Group will support the decision on agreement to the 2019 Work Programme and the Agency's financial plan for energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u20	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Mrs. Duška Year, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have reviewed the report in the Slovenian National Party and have no comments on the report. However, we do have a recommendation that we should consider the waterway from Ljubljana to Zagreb at hydro power plants, because we know that the port will start working in Zagreb. This amount would have been estimated to have increased by 5 % at the time of the construction of the hydroelectric power plant. I come from Posavje alone, where we have very large hydroelectric power plants and there is plenty of space around them to arrange this waterway once and then to have a waterway from Ljubljana to Zagreb. We will support the 2019 report in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal for a Decision on an agreement to the Programme of Work and the Financial Plan of the Agency for Energy for 2019, we will decide on Tuesday, 27 November 2018 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the course of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 22. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision on the approval of amendments to the amendments and additions of the representative of the State Audit Board for the revision of the procedures for the award of public contracts. Amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission for the revision of procurement procedures have been submitted by the State Audit Commission to the National Assembly in agreement under Article 64(2) of the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures. For further reasons, I give the floor to the representative of the proposalr to the President of the State Audit Commission, Mr Borut Smrdel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u22	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! In October 2017, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures, which introduced several changes in the field of legal protection in procurement procedures. The new ZPVPJN-B thus regulated, inter alia, at the level of the law, the Institute of the General Meeting of the State Audit Commission, which had been previously regulated only at the level of the Rules of Procedure, introduced a Senate decision on all applications – some of the applications, complaints and requests submitted in respect of low-value contracts, could be decided by an individual member – amended by the Institute of the Clearing House, envisaged the establishment of the e audit system with the coming year and so on. The Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission for the revision of procurement procedures also needed to be aligned with all those amendments. The proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which you are considering today, follows the required legislative changes and introduces some other innovations necessary for the effective functioning of the State Audit Commission. The revised Rules of Procedure thus further govern certain powers of the ordinary meeting which are not subject to legal regulation. As you know, under the law, the basic competence of the general meeting of the State Audit Commission is to address issues of importance for the uniform application of the laws and practices of the State Audit Commission. The Rules of Procedure also give the State Audit Board some other more important powers, namely the competence to adopt the annual report, the competence to deal with the draft amendments and to consider proposals and initiatives for amending the sectoral rules. The revised Rules of Procedure also introduces a new institute of the College of Presidents and Members, which addresses all other relevant topics other than the general meeting. A substitute for the appointment of members of the Senate shall be introduced in the event of a planned or unplanned absence. There has been no such basis in the Rules of Procedure so far, but it is necessary to ensure the smooth work of the State Audit Commission when the hospital or any other absence of members occurs. A revised Rules of Procedure shall establish a legal basis for the implementation of the General Assembly sitting. This is a meeting of the Senate at which, in addition to the members of the Senate appointed to the individual Senate, and of the advisers, it also invites other members of the Commission or other staff of the Commission, so that more important legal issues can be addressed in the wider range, which will further contribute to the uniform legal practice of that body. Finally, the amended Rules of Procedure also regulate the relevant grounds which have not yet been laid down in the Rules of Procedure for the allocation of cases in the field of offences. Under the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures, the Rules of Procedure are the most important legal act governing the functioning of the State Audit Commission. We believe that the amendments and amendments to the Rules of Procedure have been prepared and properly aligned with the amended Law on Legal Protection in procurement procedures, while also introducing, as has been said, certain institutions that will further contribute to the efficiency of the work of that body. I therefore propose that the National Assembly give its consent to this act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission were considered by the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as a working body and drafted a proposal for a decision on consent. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Igor Pecko Committee to complete the presentation of the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u24	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at the 3rd meeting of the Committee of the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. 11. 2018 as a parent working body treated the amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission for the revision of the procurement procedures submitted to the National Assembly by the Commission. In its opening presentation, the representative of the Commission, Borut Smrdel, drew attention first to the fact that the proposed amendments and additions to the Commission's Rules of Procedure were due to the fact that the National Assembly adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures on 18 October 2017. This amendment provided in Article 43 that the Commission should, within three months of its application, align the Commission’s rules of procedure with amendments and additions. Among these, mention is made of the introduction of the 2019 eRevision web portal, which will allow for the electronic exchange of applications in legal proceedings led by the Commission. New developments are being followed with regard to the arrangements for the clarification meeting and the introduction of a mandatory Senate decision on all the applications addressed by the Commission, including decision-making in the appeal procedure and in the low-value procurement procedure. The next important novelty is also a more detailed regulation of the competence of the general meeting of the Commission, which is due to the transfer of this material from a novelty from a business to a legal level. The other amendments and additions relate to the arrangements of the College Institute of the President of the Commission and to the establishment of conditions for a sitting of the Commission in an extended form. The amended Rules of Procedure also lays down the legal basis for cases justifying the appointment of alternate members of the Chambers of the Commission. The representative of the Government of the State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, Leon Behin, added to the above that the solutions submitted in the context of the amendments under consideration and the addition of the rules of procedure of the Commission were well prepared. They take into account all the changes brought about by the implementation of the novel as well as the development practices established in this area since the implementation of the Commission's original rules of procedure in 2012. Representative of the Legal and Legislative Service of the National Assembly of Mag. The method of Hrvat Pirnat first explained that the act had been examined in terms of its powers. She added that she had no comments on the amendments and additions to the Commission's Rules of Procedure this time. Members and members of the Committee did not discuss the content of the amendments submitted and the completion of the Commission's Rules of Procedure. By 8 votes and 0 votes against, the Committee adopted the following decision: The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a decision on the consent to the amendments and the amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission for the revision of the procedures for the award of public contracts of 23. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Members of the List, Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the LMŠ Group, we have joined the Members in finding that the solutions submitted in the context of the consideration of amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission for the revision of procurement procedures are well prepared. These are amendments and additions to be drawn up in order to harmonise the rules of procedure of the Commission with the applicable legislation adopted in October 2017. We also agree with the conclusion that we have just heard in the Committee's report – that the amendments and additions also take into account the practices that have been established in this area since the Commission's original business rules have been in force. [[…]] I'm sorry. The opinion was also put forward by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which has not commented on the amendments and additions tabled, and we will, of course, support the proposal for a decision on consent to the amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission for the revision of the procedures for the award of public contracts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u28	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, Madam Members, Members of Parliament! The Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission should be supplemented by amendments to the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures. This is also what the State Audit Commission has done, and today I am particularly stressing the word relationship of legal protection. The State Audit Commission has complemented the Rules of Procedure with a view to confirming the National Assembly on 23 February 2018, which is said to be the spring of this year. What has proved to be important is that a purely formal procedure on the basis of what has been sent to the National Assembly has, in fact, turned into a kind of weirdness. The legislative and legal services of the National Assembly have identified at least 2 significant shortcomings in the material sent, namely that the material not only complements the act but also changes it, especially what is even more significant – that the material contains a relatively large number of legal shortcomings. And again, of course, it is necessary to stress the word relationship of legal protection. How is the Institute – and the State Audit Commission – a para-state institution in charge of legal protection in procurement procedures carrying out its mission, but if it has such imprudent problems when it comes to supplementing its own rules of procedure? This is a question that is certainly not merely rhetorical. However, both bodies, both the State Audit Commission and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, have harmonised the document below, so that what we are deciding today is legally correct. We will therefore support the document in the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal for a decision on the agreement to the amendments and amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission for the revision of procurement procedures, we will decide on Tuesday, 27 November 2018, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. AND 17. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Health Protection and Health Protection Act and a bill amending the Act on Working Dimensions. The draft laws were tabled by a group of seven Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Horvato. With regard to the draft laws, the group of eleven Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Horvato or the first-signed mag. Matthew Tonin demanded that the National Assembly conduct a general hearing. To further explain both proposals, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Jerne Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u30	Good day to you all! With this package of laws, New Slovenia proposes something that is for the benefit of entrepreneurs, craftsmen, the Slovenian economy, something that improves the business environment. We have prepared a new Law on Health Care and Health Insurance and a new Law on Labour Relations and we propose joint treatment in the work relating to the exercise of the right to hospital absence. The proposed amendment reduces the period when the employer pays the remuneration from his own resources in cases where the worker is unable to work due to his or her illness or injury, which is not related to his or her work. The beginning of receiving compensation during the retention period from work covered by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance is amended from 31 days of retention from work to 16 days. The proposal for a law amending the Labour Relations Act therefore introduces the following solution: shortening the period of sickness or injury paid at the burden of the employer from the current 30 working days to the individual absence from work, but not more than 120 working days per calendar year, to 15 days for each absence from work, but not more than 60 working days per calendar year. What is it, ladies and gentlemen? Traders and entrepreneurs have, within the framework of the requirements of Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship, been calling for a number of years to amend the Labour Relations Act and the Health and Health Insurance Act in relation to the length of the period when the employer pays compensation from his own resources in cases where the worker is unable to work because of his illness, injury not related to work. The period following the current legal regime, when compensation goes into the burden of the entrepreneur 30 working days, which practically means 40 calendar days, is absolutely too long. I say we agree at this point. This pays for everything — who? The employer, even though it's nothing to do with the injury. Even though the worker didn't get hurt in the workplace. In self-employed people, however, it often happens that, in order to ensure an existing minimum, an entrepreneur reduces the hospital and starts doing business, even though he is not yet healthy. This is happening to us. Self - employed people shorten their hospital and go to work because their business is failing. But they're making them sick. And since the patient’s stock makes it impossible for an entrepreneur to generate income, he should also pay contributions from a reduced insurance base. At the time of the hospital stock of the entrepreneur, the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia must take over the burden substantially earlier, which is proposed after 15 working days. Therefore, the proposed novelty reduces the period when the employer pays the remuneration from his own resources in cases where the worker is unable to work because of his illness or injury, which is not related to work, and thus eliminates the root cause of many problems for Slovenian entrepreneurs and craftsmen. However, the second solution brought by the amendment of the Health and Health Insurance Act is a fair way to regulate the so-called regression claims that the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute applies from employers in the event of injury at work or occupational illness. Regret claims or claims for damages arising from an accident at work or occupational disease may be lodged against persons responsible for the damage caused under Slovenian law both by the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia and by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. The obliging code of the Republic of Slovenia defines compensation liability as an obligation of an individual to settle the damage to which he is responsible and which arises only if four conditions are met: inadmissibility, damage, sample association – and fourthly – responsibility itself. Indemnity liability for health insurance is more precisely regulated by the Health and Health Insurance Act. The CFSP shall have the right to request from the employer compensation for damages, i.e. amounts paid if the injury, illness or death of the worker results from the failure of the employer to take appropriate measures for the safe working environment and the safety of persons. The bond code provides that the court, having regard to the property situation of the injured person, may order the responsible person to pay a lesser compensation than the amount of the damage if the damage was not caused on purpose and not for serious negligence, and that the responsible person is a weak asset and would make the payment of the full compensation for the loss. And a proposal from New Slovenia. New Slovenia's proposal regulates employers' claims for compensation in the way that they are responsible for injury at work and occupational illness – be careful – only in the event of serious negligence, while in other cases the costs are reimbursed by the Employment Institute, to which employers are already paying contributions under this heading of 0.53%. The purpose of the safe and healthy work regime is to prevent injuries at work and occupational diseases and to ensure social security for those who are injured at work or who are ill at work for a occupational disease, but at the same time in a predictable legal and business environment that does not endanger the existence of the cause. Christian Democrats feel that the current legislation is unfair mainly to a small employer, self-employed persons who respond to unlimited, independent entrepreneurs, even with their personal property, even though a damaging event with high material damage has occurred due to some small oversight of an obligation that is only able to detect negligence. Indemnification claims may jeopardise the business of some employers, particularly economically weaker, small and medium-sized enterprises. Nor can employers afford to insure the risk associated with regressive claims in commercial insurance companies because they simply do not offer these services because the amounts upstream are not limited. In 2015, the ZZZS recorded an inflow of EUR 1 million in 2015, EUR 1 million in 2016, EUR 264 000 in 2016, and EUR 1 million in 2017, EUR 326 000 in 2017. In New Slovenia, we therefore propose that this liability on the employer's part is only if the occupational illness, injury at work or death is caused by the severe negligence of the employer or intentionally, while in the event of a minor negligence, the regression requirement is not enforced, as I repeat, employers are paying a contribution of 0.53% in the case of injury at work and occupational illness in the case of compulsory health insurance. Employers' liability for compensation is limited to 20 times, as proposed by this amendment, if the damage is caused by gross negligence, and unlimited if the damage is intentionally caused. The purpose of this restriction is to avoid endangering the existence of a cause of injury, especially by small and medium-sized employers, as it does not allow for their stable and predictable operations. Attention – this also applies to independent entrepreneurs who do not have an employee. I will continue to explain and read one example of a self-employed person who is practically disabled and has to pay for himself the damage caused in the context of regression claims. [[…]] This amendment to the New Slovenia Act is not going in any direction – as some would say in the previous term – to reduce the importance of safety and health at work and not to reduce the standard of employer responsibility, but rather to more equitable burden-sharing among all stakeholders. This law is also comparable to some of the arrangements in our surrounding countries, Germany, Austria and Italy. More in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the Government to explain the opinion first to the representative of the Ministry of Health, Minister Sam Fakin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u32	Hello, Members and Members of Parliament! Let me begin by saying that these and similar topics have been emerging in the health insurance assembly for the past 15 years, including the problem of 0.53% share given by employers to control injuries and diseases, and so far there has been no agreement between employers and trade unions. Let me also say that in the new Health and Health Insurance Act, which is written down and should see the light of the world at the end of the previous term, the contribution rates are treated differently. Let me also say that we are aware that Germany has health insurance for injuries and diseases at work covered by a special law and that it also draws money for all these occupational diseases. This problem of small employers has already been tried to resolve through the insurance fund, but commercial insurance companies somehow do not agree to set up a special fund to cover these risks of negligence and injury at work. The Government has thus once again examined the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health and Health Insurance Act and adopted a position after consideration to oppose the proposed amendments, because the proposed measure reduces the period of payment of the employer's cash compensation due to the temporary inability to work at the expense of the employer from day 16 means a reduction in the right to health care in the framework of compulsory health insurance. The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law, at the same time as the amendment, does not propose a new source of funds for compulsory health insurance, but is also a systemic change, so we believe that such a proposal must be the result of a constructive social dialogue and achieve the broadest consensus of all concerned. Let me warn you that we have 25 insurance bases and 121 health insurance bases to see what we can apply. In addition to espain, there are farmers, small societies – and everyone has a similar problem. With regard to the financial assessment of this part of the amendments and the addition of the law, the applicant submitted an estimate of around EUR 50 million if the number of hospital claims at the burden of the ZZZS increased on the basis of the proposed novelty by around 10,000 cases. We have about 32 thousand patients a day in the hospital, half of them over 30 days, half of them under 30 days, and now it would move over 30 days. Already, it has compensated 350 million, which then burdens health care, of course, or the inability to spend that money on health services, and you know the waiting periods. According to the Institute's assessment, the financial implications of the proposed law on compulsory insurance would amount to approximately €70 million higher expenditure. In its opinion, which was also sent to the National Assembly and received as part of the materials for today's meeting, the Institute also clarified the methodology for calculating financial projections. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also opposes the proposed amendment under the proposed law relating to the so-called regression claims. The proposed amendments create a derogation from the basic principle of compensation law, in order to ensure that the damage caused by it is reimbursed. Furthermore, the proposed change, according to our assessment, would also give false signals as regards safety and health in the workplace. In the last decade, important steps have been taken towards greater awareness of employers and the importance of the area, but injuries at work and outside work are one of the leading three causes. In this regard, we can further explain that the 2015 Regression Claims Office recorded a million €170,000 regression claims, 2016 million 200 and so on. Decommitment of these funds at the expense of the lower liability of employers would have an impact on the health allowance as well as on public funds. In view of all the above, we consider that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Health and Health Insurance Act is not appropriate for further consideration, as such complex areas need to be addressed in an integrated manner while aware of the multiple effects that a partial change can cause in the compulsory insurance system. I myself have witnessed the enthusiasm to simplify insurance bases, but I must say that in the nine years that I led the institution, we have only expanded and complicated them. So it must also be realized that if we open up one problem, we will open it up to twenty, thirty, and until there is a clear picture of what will happen, we may have a domino effect. As far as the Health and Health Insurance Act, which you will receive in this Parliament in this mandate, is concerned, there will be enough room for these debates if, in my humble opinion, with such a complex mother that you will deal with, we can conclude this in due course.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u33	Thank you very much. As part of the remainder of the government's time, I also give the floor to the representative of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Tiln Bozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u34	Dear President, honourable Members, welcome! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also adopted an opinion on the Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Relations Act, which has been tabled by a group of Members and Members by the first-signed Mr Horvat, which does not support the Government Act. The Government is of the opinion that all workers should be given equal treatment in the enjoyment of labour rights, even in the event of the worker’s inability to work because of his illness or injury, but also points out that the proposal is aimed at self-employed or craftsmen. With regard to the proposal for a law, the Government notes that it reduces the period of compensation for the disease or injury to be paid in the burden of the employer, which allegedly pursues two objectives, namely to relieve the financial burden on the economy and to enable the craftsmen, it is said that the self-employed are a comparable situation in the enjoyment of health insurance rights in the event of a hospital absence. By amending the law governing working relationships, it is not possible to reach a target group of applicants, i.e. self-employed persons, or to affect the enjoyment of social rights of independent entrepreneurs who do not employ workers. Remuneration of wages or payments for these categories of workers is subject to a second rule. I also point out that the balance of eligible health insurance schemes should also be taken into account in relation to the issue of the employer's burden on remuneration for workers in the context of the management of health abstention. In addition, I should stress the role and responsibilities of employers in ensuring safety and health at work, their expected primary interest in ensuring a healthy, safe and, of course, a friendly working environment at work and ensuring that workers' work and family obligations are coordinated as much as possible. It is also necessary to take into account the obligations of workers to comply with the prescribed safety measures and their interest and motivation to take care of their health so that they can carry out their work obligations successfully. In the view of the Government, such issues as the change in the period of individual taxpayers to pay salaries during periods of incapacity for work should be systematically approached and the question examined both in terms of the impact on the economy and also in terms of social justice and impact on the labour market and, of course, the financial sustainability of the proposed change should be carefully examined. It is also crucial, as already mentioned, that the proposed amendments follow the objectives set and that such material be regulated under the relevant rules. Finally, let me stress that such changes must also be the result of constructive social dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, the Group of Social Democrats has the word "mag" for her. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have a new Law on Health Care and Health Insurance and the Labour Relations Act, submitted by the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats with the first-signed Mr Jožet Horvato. It is true, as the proposaler has already said, that today we will repeat some of our thoughts that we have already given in the previous mandate. Both marriages are identical in content, so our position will also be united. The main purpose of the bill is to shorten the period during which the employer pays the remuneration from his own resources for the period of retention of workers from work due to diseased reasons or injuries not related to work, from 31 to 16 days. In this way, the proposers want to relieve the economy of part-time financial burdens and ensure that tradesmen and self-employed people enjoy an equal position in the enjoyment of the right to hospital absence. While we can agree with the proposalers in this part, we also agree, but the proposal needs to be looked at in an integrated way. The short period of payment of the employer, self-employed person or member would mean an extension of the right of compulsory health insurance, but must not forget that the compulsory health insurance is limited and the applicant does not indicate a new source of inflows of funds to compulsory health insurance. In the event of such support to the law, this would mean a reduction of existing health services, which are the right now to new treatments, new medicines, new medical devices, and consequently the waiting period could be extended due to a lack of funds. We stress that any change must be the result of constructive dialogue and the broadest consensus reached by the social partners. We agree that the current arrangement for wage compensation for working time for certain groups poses a serious problem, but as we are different people, so are the specific situations in which we are. This is also why not all go to the same basket, because there are many different groups in this segment that cannot be equated due to the specificity of work and status. This is precisely why they should be addressed in a fair manner by addressing problems in groups of comparable cases. Social Democrats are convinced that the social dialogue through which an agreement must be reached is necessary, because it is the social dialogue that is the important nuance that will also allow the agreements to be respected – we have already proved that. Only social dialogue can be a marriage to raise the issue of how to change the system but at the same time protect workers' rights in the process of seeking solutions. The restriction of regression claims for employers is a proposal that has repeatedly failed the applicant in the previous mandate of the National Assembly and has not received support for it. The same is being tried in this mandate. However, the solution is not supported because it is fundamentally contrary to the basic principle of responsibility and is also confused by the logic of a responsible entrepreneur who is concerned about the welfare and health of his employees, and therefore must do everything in his power to prevent occupational diseases, injuries at work and accidents. The substance of the regression claims by which the Pension and Disability Insurance Office requires reimbursement of the costs of treatment, disability and pensions for workers who have become sick or injured at work due to the employer’s inadvertentness or negligence is the responsibility of the employer. The employer who intentionally or negligently causes injury, occupational illness or even death of an employee is already liable, in accordance with the general rules, for the damage he has caused. This seems contentious to the applicants because they feel that they should return to the time when the employer would be responsible only for deliberate conduct or for his gross negligence. In the event of minor negligence, it is considered that the employer should not be liable for the damage caused. In particular, they find it controversial because such responsibility cannot be protected. A small responsibility of the employer may also have major and serious consequences. Wrongly mounted or opened electric cabinet or non-use of helmet, which may also be damaged, may cause death or permanent disability. Should we as a society bear the consequences and pay for the consequences of such negligence, or should we demand that the person who caused it repay the damage? When it comes to the life and health of employed people, little negligence cannot and must not exist. And of course, it is true that an employer cannot be protected for such cases — and it is just as impossible — to protect a house against a fire that could be prevented by responsible conduct on his own. As long as we face such proposals, it is not possible to expect employers to behave as they are expected in other countries in the developed world. That is why, once again, the Social Democrats reject such a proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u37	Thank you so much for saying that. The position of the Group will be presented by Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u38	Hello! The topic is how to reduce what employers are always losing, which is the unpredictable costs that are often incurred precisely because of a certain negligence or a lack of serious investment in the healthy working conditions of a worker in the workplace. These are experiments that are not only the subject of the previous mandate, but several mandates. Let me say that not only have the proponents proposed this not only on more than one occasion, let's just pour ourselves some pure wine, but only in the last period of the law, as regards the absence of hospitals, four times, the regressive request under the Health and Health Insurance Act has been proposed three times and again in the context of the Zpiz, which means that we have had these debates and these discussions in this area many times. And the answers were always the same and the same and the arguments on the other side of the one and the same. And today it won't be any different. We will discuss how to reduce the employer’s obligations – what a small target group wants in an area called craftsmen and independent entrepreneurs or entrepreneurs – let’s do better, better things, because it can also be for those who have more employees. Is that legitimate? Of course it's legitimate. Such a discussion is always legitimate and justified, so in fact we do not take this proposal maliciously, far from it. However, the comparison with international standards is uncomparable because abroad they have a different health system, a different form of insurance and, of course, a different legal arrangement. But let's see what this really means for us in our country. If we looked at how much money we had already spent for the sick, we could see that in 2013 we actually spent 224 million on hospital leave alone to have this comparison. In 2017, we used them, or say one year earlier, to make 2016 clearer, to see how this is growing, about 285 million. In 2017, it was already €317 million and €314 million. Of course, if we were to implement such a solution as proposed by the applicants, that would mean an additional 70 million. I'm speaking to you on purpose, because when we start talking about numbers, we'll understand what we're really talking about. And there are 70 million funds to be foreseen, and nowhere else, of course, than those that he is paying today — that is, the health treasury. No problem. However, something will then happen in this bag, which is today large in terms of compulsory health insurance – given that we have economic growth and more payments, more employees – somewhere around 2 billion 800 This means that we will have to reduce the mandatory health insurance obligations or increase the contribution rate or find a third path. [[…]] The same proposer, of course, advocates a third issue, and this should be mentioned in this discussion – that he also wants to have more private insurance companies to regulate health insurance. So these are different attempts to basically break this system. It's also legitimate that we're not going to get things wrong. However, these are too many and too serious questions to be done within one or two laws with minor changes. These are questions which, as the Minister has said, must be addressed by a substantial number of stakeholders, not least by those who will be deprived of these rights, but by workers, and not by all those who do not have the same level of order. In principle, we all have the same questions today, with the exception of culturers as independent entrepreneurs, who, of course, have this issue substantially different. The fact is that, of course, in this way we will not be able to resolve this issue so easily. Another issue they are proposing today, however, is that they are actually proposing solutions within the Labour Relations Act, which concerns obligations in terms of regressive claims, which means a substantial change in the method of logic, what this law actually deals with. The law essentially deals with the relationship between the worker and the employer, but there is absolutely no obligation of a specific target group, because of this, of course, we will break the relationship between the question of how these things are handled within one law. Because in fact, the Labour Relations Act would suddenly begin to address only one target group and their personal rights. It just doesn't fit in this marriage. Finally, let me say that, of course, it is very important that we always ask ourselves what is most important and what the proponents are interested in: Is the law suitable for further consideration? To date, they have come up with the same proposals and the same solutions, which means, of course, that the position within the SMC Group has not changed at all, and therefore, unfortunately, we will have to say very well that we do not support further consideration. At the same time, of course, we expect bold solutions from the Government with a common agreement. Not in the same way, but with some higher quality than we have today, with the emphasis that we are all equal before the law and not different. I hope that the proponents are also aware of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u40	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! Health insurance is one of the fundamental rights arising from employment. Its purpose is to protect workers and workers, including in cases of accidents and diseases. We're probably all in agreement here. However, we find it difficult to agree on who should be financially responsible for this. Interestingly, the party that is usually the first to cut the costs of the State, the austerity measures, the lower taxes says this time: “Yes country.” The bill proposed would put an additional burden on the state budget, as warned by the Government, or on the health insurance company for an additional EUR 70 million per year. What would that accomplish on the other hand? They would burden employers who are now required to pay sick leave up to and including 30 days away in a way that would only pay for 15 days. This needs to be put in some context. Indeed, in capitalism, the social system, which we also have in Slovenia, there is a contractual relationship between the worker and the capitalist, between the worker and the employer. With this contractual relationship on the one hand, the worker undertakes to work 8 hours a day to leave all the products he creates to his employer to be freely available to him and, of course, to all the other obligations arising from this contract. On the other hand, the employer undertakes to pay a fee to the worker and to provide for him through his reproductive taxes, it is said that he will ensure that the worker receives health insurance, that he will be able to train his children free of charge to pay for his pension and disability insurance. Throughout the history of capitalism, capital, employers have tried in various ways to reduce their cost or part of their contractual obligation. The most obvious way is, of course, lower wages – lower wages, get less work, get more capital. Another very obvious way that has often been used or pressured in recent times is to lower taxes — lower taxes, gain less countries, indirectly less get health care and pension systems, schools, social services, and more remains capital. And what NSI is actually trying to do is, through the back door, not through a reduction of taxes, but through a reduction of some of the employers' obligations, actually bring tax relief. The 70 million Euros of paid sick leave paid by employers per year would simply be transferred to the country. Of course, they do not propose any other source for a health insurance company because "the state will already find this money because it has a lot of money". On the other hand, we will probably hear them again in a week or so, as long as they are waiting in the healthcare sector, how we have an outdated health system, how medical care is inappropriate, but today it is not important, today – but the country will find a way to take another 70 million euros out of the health system to relieve employers. [[…]] That's the first part of that story. However, the second measure they propose is that employers would no longer be liable for compensation in cases of work accidents, but would only be liable in cases of serious negligence. Here, first of all, it must be noted that our law does not know the concept of gross negligence. This is only a legal standard, which is being filled by judicial practice, but there is no gross negligence in the legal standard. But again – what do they want to accomplish with this? In doing so, they want employers to be able to act more recklessly in providing working conditions for their employees because they will expect to have to pay compensation only in the event of serious negligence. Little negligence can also lead to a fatal accident, but in this case it will not be the employer’s fault, only in the event of a serious one. Which means we're actually giving them a biocommunist to make work security and working conditions worse for our employees. We will also vote against that. But I'd just like to warn you about a few more numbers. Last year, employers in Slovenia reported almost 10,000 accidents at work. The Republic of Slovenia's labour inspection investigated 66 of these accidents, which is less than 1% of these accidents. Of these, 10 deaths were investigated, 37 more severe, 17 easier, and 2 collective accidents. In 2017, inspectors identified 17,000 900 violations in the field of safety and health at work. Among these violations are those related to the provision of health care to workers and the training of workers for safe work. In 8% of the infringements identified, employers did not provide safe equipment, 17% of all violations, as reported by the labour inspectorate, were not improved or otherwise, are getting worse from year to year. And now we'd be lowering standards. I think it's completely confused with common sense. Finally, I would like to draw attention to what Jani Möderndorfer has already warned me about. The objective of these measures is essentially what the party's programme objective is. In fact, this party, I am talking about NSI, has for one of its main programme items a breakdown of the so-called public health insurance monopoly with a view to commercialising health insurance. Here I would like to point out that they already have such cases abroad. The longest they went to the United States with this experiment, and in the United States there are countless movements against such a system because it turned out to be – what? That Slovenia currently pays half the per capita per cent of GDP for the health system as paid by Americans. They have the most expensive health care in the world, which is less effective than Slovenian health insurance, and they pay 17% of their GDP for health insurance – meaning that while employers' obligations are lower, the worker ultimately spends so much on health insurance that out of the $100 he earns, 17 he spends on his health care, medicine, insurance. And according to research – I went a little Google earlier, on August 28th Reuters was doing a survey of how many people this system supports – they found that the so-called single-payer system, this is the state monopoly of one insurance company, supported 70% of the Americans questioned and 85% of the voters of the democratic party and 52% of the voters of the Republican party. So, dear colleagues and colleagues from NSI, I think you need to update your agenda a little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u42	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! Today we have before us the novels of the Health and Health Insurance Act and the novels of the Labour Relations Act. Both laws bring solutions to two key issues. One is greater solidarity in patients and the other is a fairer cost-recovery regime in case of treatment. It has been repeatedly exposed to why these two laws have already been tabled repeatedly in the parliamentary procedure. The reason is very simple – because these are the problems that entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs are constantly alerting us to, especially small espas. It is interesting that when, for example, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia or other economic associations organise various encounters or dedications or presentations of their problems and when coalition Members are present at these activities, they attach to their problems and even agree that these matters need to be settled. There is a need to regulate greater solidarity in patients and a fairer regime is needed in the recovery of treatment costs. I was on the Slovenian coast ahead of the last national elections at the meeting of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, where the current prime minister and the other presidents of the coalition parties sat next to me, where they all argued that they agreed that this should be corrected and that this must be regulated in order to obtain a better business environment, more predictable. I wonder what happens to what happens before the elections, after the elections are over, when they take positions, when all these things are forgotten. I hope that these things are well remembered by people, especially those who are constantly flabbergasted. Because one is what they say before the elections, and the other is what they do after the elections. Today, these two laws have a unique opportunity to put what they promised at these meetings into practice. I'll be very specific about what we're talking about. One solution is the hospital, where I would expect Levi to absolutely support greater solidarity in the field of hospitals, and it is inconceivable that the party that says that for solidarity is so ideologically blinded that only because New Slovenia has proposed it does not want to help espions and small entrepreneurs in order to achieve greater solidarity in the hospital. In particular, hospitals are now arranged in a way that is paid by the employer for 30 days. In practice, this means that if an employee gets sick, a month and a half of the employer pays the hospital. A month and a half. Now you imagine one espouse who doesn't have any employees on his own. If it's a month and a half without any income, how can he pay the hospital? How? What's going on? Of course, these people then work sick, they don't heal to the end, and then they become long-term hospitals, and that's why we're not surprised by the fact that we spent 317 million euros on patients in 2017. Much of this money has also been spent because people do not heal to the end and then follow worse injuries and diseases. But they don't heal until the end, because they just can't afford it. What does New Slovenia propose in particular, and what is the proposal? That the health insurance company, i.e. the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, will take over the hospital from 16 days away. So the employers are in charge of paying the hospital 15 working days instead of the current 30. This means that the employer will still be responsible for the hospital for three weeks instead of the current month and a half. These three weeks include, say, more or less all of these seasonal diseases, flu and similar things, minor injuries. We don't have a problem with these. They're still on the employer's side. But if someone is sick for more than 15 working days, it's obviously a worse condition and it's right and fair to turn on solidarity and take over the ZZS. It is amazing that the parties who are supposed to advocate solidarity and help people are opposed to this law. Once again, one is your words, the other is your concrete actions. One solution to the hospital. Come in. A more just arrangement for reimbursement of treatment costs. In the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia they call this: let us arrange regression claims. This means that when a worker is injured, our health system greets him, and then, of course, the employer takes the cost of this treatment back, and this is called a regressive claim that the matter will be fully clear. But there's a really amazing number of manipulations here, especially on the left-hand side of this thing, how they manipulate this thing. At all meetings of economic, crafts organisations, it was said that this is one of the main problems. It's incredibly funny when you go to some outside meeting of this or the committee of the National Assembly, and when you sit with the coalition MPs who tell you themselves, it's an example of how this really happened unfairly and inappropriately, but when there's a specific vote, it's not the spirit of not hearing that we support this law. What exactly am I talking about? We propose that if the worker has been injured or deliberately injured because of deliberately failing to comply with certain rules, how to maintain or ensure some safety at work, i.e. if there has been intentional negligence, intentional injury, such an employer is in full debt, I stress, completely without any restrictions to cover the costs of treatment. Secondly, we propose that if there has been a serious negligence because the employer has not provided adequate safety standards at work and there has been a serious negligence – we also argue that it is necessary to reimburse the costs of treatment up to EUR 15 000. Up to 15,000 euros. That's our proposal. However, if there are minor errors in ensuring safety at work, we suggest that the treatment is covered by the insurance that employers pay for our salaries. Look at our payrolls, 0.53% of our gross wages are devoted every month to a particular thing, as they say, injury at work from treatment and this matter. And from this title, about €70 million is collected each year. So we step up, if you are completely guilty and malpractice, in full, if it is a worse mistake, up to €15 000, if it comes to smaller matters, is paid from the insurance already paid by employers. This is a proposal from New Slovenia. But this coalition says no, this government says no, although all its representatives at the meetings of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia claimed that this must be arranged, that this matter is detrimental to our business environment and that it is impossible. Why is it impossible? It is impossible because you have cases where a small employer is required to pay 70, 80 and 100,000 euros for treatment. Imagine that you are an employer who has 4 or 5 employees, and one of these 5 hurts and you get a ticket to pay 100,000 euros to treat this worker – you know what happens next? The flood follows and the closure of this company. That's the final result. And that's why we need to fix this. Not because the safety of the employee will be reduced. In these laws, there is no case of a reduction in the worker’s safety. It's just some sort of rational arrangement. If you are guilty, pay for everything if you make a bigger mistake, pay 15,000 euros — you will pay a lot, and you will get hit in the pocket. Fifteen thousand euros is still a lot of money. A lot of money. But at least 15 thousand euros won't cause your company to sink. Remember, these people who are employed pay contributions, taxes, and so on each month. And if we sink a company like that, these people land on the state budget. And we want to prevent that. If we listened to each other and if the coalition did what it says, then absolutely these two of our marriages would not be problematic in anything and would have unanimous support. Consonant support. Because in no way do we endanger the stability of the health system or any other matter. Above all, we contribute to making our business environment much more predictable, clear and unfocused in a way that we can actually contribute to the closure of companies in Slovenia with certain reckless things. And once again, if you have any problems with these laws, you still have a chance to correct them in another treatment. It is indeed shameful that you are already voting at first reading that this law is inappropriate for further consideration. If you have, say, I give you a specific case, in case of a hospital problem, it's 15, I don't know, you'll suggest another number. If you have a problem with regression claims that 15,000 euros is too small a sentence, you will, I don't know, increase it to 30,000 euros. It is irresponsible, however, to wave with one hand and say that the law is inappropriate for further consideration, despite warning by organizations involved in these matters all the time. If you do not believe us in the opposition, at least read the books they issue, for example, in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the requirements of crafts and entrepreneurship, where this thing is one of the fundamental and crucial things. And if this thing wasn't so hot on the ground, believe me, we wouldn't be running and putting this thing on the line all the time. But we do this because everywhere we go to the field, especially the little espouses warn us about these things all the time. Today we have a concrete and beautiful opportunity to move from words to concrete actions. Well, let's see you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u44	Mr President, Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I will now present the opinion of the Desus Group, and I certainly must say that, as far as this is concerned, I can certainly agree with the proposalers on some of the issues. Only the basic problem, the basic problem that I have, is that this law does not solve, I will say, all together, the economy and the people in Slovenia. You must know that, despite the fact that I myself represent part of the craft, I would like to act as a Member here as a representative of all people, and of all equal rights. Let's also say this law – I have now read it a little bit more, and I also know that you have already proposed it several times. This suggests that greater cooperation with the social partners, including Members, including others, with the Government will be necessary. And I think today the minister said he would put a similar law in our procedure in the near future. So please allow me to present the position of the Desus Group. Today's 2 items of the agenda, which both relate to the reduction of the period when employers pay the employee's salary due to temporary disability due to illness and injury, are dealt with together on the same subject. At the initiative of entrepreneurs and craftsmen, the proposer believes that the compensation for the absence of medical bills in favour of the economy should be allocated only after 15 days of absence and not after one month's absence, 30 days as is the case now. Allow me to begin by asking the opinion of the Desus Group whether the applicant knows that the research says that we are Slovenians at the very top of the number of working hours. In doing so, let us not forget that there is a minimum wage – but I believe that the vast majority of the beneficiaries of the minimum wage work more than 40 hours a week – currently stands at 2 euros above the poverty threshold, with many times these workers working sickly. In recent years, we have been facing a high increase in absence from work or abstention. In the opinion of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, we have been able to read that the number of compensations paid has increased by more than 90 million over the last 5 years. And hand to heart, the reasons for temporary retention from work are also quite often on the employer’s side. The increase in absence from work is also affected by the absence of appropriate measures to adapt jobs to the ageing population, which is also evident over time in the hospital stock. Many also lack appropriate measures to improve working conditions and working conditions and could also be listed. Not enough employers' concern has its consequences on people, on workers. An even smaller concern and smaller obligations of employers in the proposal for both laws would also have a negative impact on the solidarity system of compulsory health insurance for all of us. This simply means that the burden of the manca in health care would be passed on to insured persons, workers, pensioners, children who would consequently have fewer rights to health insurance, longer people would wait in the types of checks or operations and from the list of medicines or medical devices to the prescriptions that would be deleted, the hospital compensation for the sick worker or his child would be reduced, and so on, or this manna should be covered by higher contributions, which I also think is not good for the employer. Finally, the link to the financial implications of the proposed change on the spot is also the question of the public health insurance claims, where numbers also say a lot. Please, if the government representative can present this information to us, how many of these delays are there? Nevertheless, we understand, of course, the problem of hospital stocks in self-employed people in the Member States. In the final stage, there is also the phenomenon that employees are in a sick condition, in which entrepreneurs and workers are simply forced to do so on many occasions. It is not good that the disease can be severely prolonged and have far-reaching effects on human health. And it is true, especially, that self-employed entrepreneurs in one person bear a heavy burden in doing so. In this regard, I would like to point out the high incidence of penitential workers, as it is felt that the latter are particularly burdened by this problem. Many espouses that have real problems are created by force, will or will, because they are forced into this by the labour market and the pressures of the contracting authorities, who are practically their employers and who force them into such a form of cooperation. According to the assessment of the Desus Group, it is therefore necessary to approach the resolution of this phenomenon. In our Group of Members, we are aware of the problems raised, but we estimate that the proposals of both of these laws have not addressed the real issue. This is a broader problem than merely reducing the period of remuneration to the burden of the employer, and therefore, according to our assessment, it is more appropriate to go in full. Since this is a systemic issue, it must be examined both in terms of the consequences for the economy and in terms of social justice and, of course, the financial sustainability of the treasury must be carefully examined so that no harm will be suffered by all other insurers. The change must also be the result of constructive social dialogue and the broadest consensus reached by the social partners. Believe, too, that even espouses themselves would not want entrepreneurs to be private in our society. Let me finish our opinion. In the Desus Group we cannot support this partial solution, so we agree that the proposals before us today are not a case for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Lidija Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u46	Dearly beloved, all together! In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, because in the Group of Members we believe that the bill is good and useful for both citizens and employers. In the parliamentary group, we find the current regime controversial in this respect that the current legislation stipulates that the employer pays the first 30 working days of absence due to a disease or injury not related to work. The period is too long and imposes unnecessary burden on the employer’s shoulders. The proposal after shortening this period to 15 days is good. The bill therefore does not remove the obligations of employers but merely reduces them. This is a very small step towards the country coming across the economy and helping to relieve the unnecessary financial burden. The 15-day period is a fair period for which employers have to pay their contributions. The proposed amendment to the standard of negligence is also a good one. Neglect is classified as new with severe negligence. This proposal excludes the causes of injury committed in the form of minor negligence. In practice, there is a very thin limit to deciding what negligence and chance can be, so it is good to move the standard of responsibility higher, to the level of serious negligence, and to regulate only these actual states and to exclude light negligence completely from the legal dictatorship. The proposal therefore legislates the principle of clarity of the law, which means that courts will be able to make a more reasoned decision in the event of possible disputes. As already mentioned, in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the bill is a good proposal, that the proponents have tried to analyse the problems facing the Slovenian economy and have come up with a clever proposal to help the economy. In view of the socially colored coalition plus one, we would like to achieve this time the coherence and the proposal before us today, together, to support. Sooner or later every employee will feel the change. We are aware that the periods we were taking are over and the economy needs to be restored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u48	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We also present a common position in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group on the two proposals for amendments to the two laws that we have today at first reading. I am pleased that, as before, the coalition Members, Mr Jurij Lep, have somehow acknowledged through words that both laws need to be amended in this area. He is a craftsman, but also a coalition Member, so, I will say, he started well and, of course, ended up as a coalition Member. Traders and entrepreneurs have, as has been said, been calling for a number of years to amend the provisions of the Labour Relations Act and the Health and Health Insurance Act in relation to the length of the period when the employer pays compensation from his own resources in cases where the worker is unable to work because of his illness or injury, which is not related to work. The period following the current legal regime, when compensation goes into the burden of the entrepreneur 30 working days, a month, which practically means 40 calendar days, is absolutely too long. Since the hospital stock makes it impossible for an entrepreneur to generate income, he should pay contributions from a reduced insurance base. At the time of the hospital stock of the entrepreneur, the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia must take over the burden substantially earlier, namely, after 15 working days. The proposed novelties shorten the period when the employer pays the remuneration from his own resources in cases where the worker is unable to work because of his or her illness or injury, which is not related to his or her work, thus eliminating the underlying cause of many problems of Slovenian craftsmen and entrepreneurs. The claim for damages in the event of injury at work is a claim for reimbursement of the costs of treatment which may be imposed by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance pursuant to Article 87 of the Health and Health Insurance Act. The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance has the right to claim compensation for damage caused by the insurance undertaking which has carried out the compulsory car insurance, and in all other cases, it has the right to claim compensation for the damage caused by the insured person's health on purpose or negligence. It is also entitled to a request for reimbursement of the cost of treatment from the employer in cases where the disease, injury or death of the insured person was caused by the failure to carry out appropriate hygiene and sanitary measures, occupational protection measures or other measures prescribed or designated for human safety. In particular, the law lays down the responsibility of employers in the event of breaches of the rules on safety and health at work and the provision of real data. The employer would be responsible for the purpose and serious negligence, and light negligence would be a burden of compulsory health insurance, where employers pay a special contribution to injuries at work and occupational diseases. The purpose of the safe and healthy work regime is to prevent injuries at work and occupational diseases and to ensure social security for those who are injured at work or who are sick at work for a occupational disease, but at the same time in a predictable business environment that does not endanger the existence of the cause. Indemnification claims may jeopardise the business of some employers, particularly economically weaker employers, small and medium-sized ones. Nor can employers be able to protect the risk associated with the regression claims from commercial insurance companies because they simply do not offer these services. That area shall be regulated so that claims for compensation may only be made if the occupational disease, injury at work or death is caused by the gross negligence of the employer. The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health and Health Insurance and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Labour Relations follow the principles of fairness, the right to personal dignity and safety, the inviolability of human physical and mental integrity and the right to a healthy living environment. They also follow the constitutional principle of a free economic initiative that allows for the normal functioning of economic operators, including small and medium-sized employers. Amendments and additions to laws propose a solution to the employer's liability when there is injury at work or occupational illness due to non-compliance with safety and health rules at work. Indemnity of the employer should be acceptable if the employer violates the rules on purpose or because of gross negligence, in cases where the injury is caused by the worker or in cases of light negligence. The proposed solution excludes the employer's responsibility in the event of his ease of negligence and limitation of liability when the damage is caused by the employer's negligence. The law does not provide for expenditure on budgetary resources during the period for which the State budget has already been adopted, as the entry into force is foreseen for 1 January 2019. The draft laws have long-term positive effects on the economy. The draft laws will have a positive impact on the enjoyment of the social rights of independent entrepreneurs who will no longer be forced to reduce the hospital stock. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will propose that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health and Health Insurance Act and amending the Labour Relations Act are suitable for further consideration, of course, because entrepreneurs and craftsmen simply deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The last position of the Group of Members, namely the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca, for whom Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dearly beloved! In both of the proposed novels, it is an interesting proposal for a law that follows in particular the objective of burdening the employer with the financial burden of covering compensation for the absence of a hospital, and this does not in fact bring any change to the employee's situation. The employer’s period of payment of compensation is also expected to be limited, but this is already limited to a maximum of 120 working days in the calendar year – for which there is more than that, compensation costs are borne by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. Responsibilities from ease of neglect, responsibility from more serious negligence, how can we divide it here — I hurt you more easily, I hurt you more badly? [[…]] This weight is followed by an appropriate responsibility, otherwise I can't explain myself. An additional financial burden, which is not small and is expected to amount to around €70 million, would reduce rights for all insurers. It would reduce their right to health services from compulsory health insurance, and this would result in a breakdown of health services, since compulsory health insurance is limited or adequately reduced. As a result, for insurers it would mean extending waiting periods, abandoning new medicines and abandoning certain treatment methods. The Labour Relations Act regulates the working relationship between the worker and the employer on the basis of the concluded employment contract and consequently compensates the salary for the absence of work during the duration of the working relationship and the applicant seeks to achieve, by novelty, the self-employed, but not workers within the meaning of labour law. The change in the period of the individual taxpayer for payment of remuneration during the period of incapacity for work should be systematically approached, and the question should be examined both in terms of the impact on the economy and also in terms of social justice, taking into account the financial sustainability of the proposed amendment. Mr Fakin, Minister of Health, commented on this competence today. It is already noted that for other reasons there is an increase in the burden of medical bills on the payment of sick leave. This means that, in terms of financial sustainability and limitation of rights for insurers, additional burdens on the healthcare sector cannot be afforded. The LMŠ Group will not support the proposed novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. The first one has a word. [[…]] I'm sorry. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Dear comrades, ladies and gentlemen! Initially, in the position of the parliamentary groups, there has been controversy that New Slovenia will be calling this amendment of legislation to the benefit of entrepreneurs, craftsmen, self-employed people in Levica ten times, or I don't know how many times. I promise you one more thing, we're going to put this in again – until one day it's accepted. This time we received another argument more why in New Slovenia we proposed these changes to the law. You know why? Because the political parties SMC, LMŠ, SD, Desus and Alenka Bratušek – with these political parties, this legislation, both regression claims and hospital claims, was coordinated in the proposal for a coalition agreement that summer with New Slovenia. We've already arranged it! And I now really understand now that what you agree to with this ruling coalition obviously has nothing to do with it. Mr. Secretary said we're giving the wrong signals. That's not true. New Slovenia does not thereby give wrong signals, but gives positive signals to help entrepreneurs and craftsmen. Let me give you some information on that. The economy is cooling down, economic growth is projected to fall for the next three years, according to the OECD, also in Slovenia. So what can we do today when we are still doing well? Just by improving the business environment for our economy. The State Secretary from the Ministry of Labour said that it is impossible to reach self-employed persons through our actions. Of course it's possible. It is with our actions that we will reach the self-employed, the most vulnerable, the most vulnerable. Many times, too, those who, in order to earn more, give up their social security, their contributions and open up espas rather than being employees. So, the coalition contract, when everything was already coordinated, was an important reason for us to say it again in New Slovenia, but maybe this time it will be because this coalition holds the word – but it wasn't. Furthermore, if I go to the regression claims first, what we propose is more detailed. First, let us identify what is something that is intentional, intentional, and something that is negligence. What is the damage or injury resulting from the intention to cause them on purpose is that they will also be borne by the employer, the entire damage. [[…]] But when it comes to negligence, there's a difference. And we propose here: negligence, 20 times the lowest pension base, which amounts to EUR 15 000 at this time, or a refund from that pool of 0.53%, which employers are already paying for compulsory health insurance. And now I'm asking you a question. If you pay something, in this case it's 0.53%, in the health register, then why aren't you entitled to this amount? Mr. Minister, who is no longer with us now, I ask you why this money is not intended for entrepreneurs and tradesmen for injuries at work. Why not if they're paying for this? What's the problem here? And when the minister talks about a long-term solution with the following legislation – that's always the way you don't agree with anything, then you say, we'll sort it out systemically sometime. But I'm going to go forward this time, to the very cases. First case: entrepreneur, espé, no employees. We're talking about self-employed people, the most vulnerable people who are often forced to open espies. Well, this entrepreneur who was involved in painting or fasader activity received a regression claim of EUR 75 000 from the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. 75,000 euros! Why? In fact, he fell off the ladder in his painting work, unable to explain why this happened. Even the reconstruction of the event was unable to do so because he was in a coma for a month. The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance is now making it clear that it did not have a properly fixed ladder. As a result of his injury, he retired from disability, and his pension amounts to — how much? I'm fighting 400 euros. Therefore, a request of EUR 75,000 represents – what do you think? Those who oppose the amendment of this legislation. What? Something that's impossible to pay. The object of this is an insurmountable obstacle and the only asset that this former entrepreneur has is a smaller rural house, which is now the subject of execution, since as an entrepreneur he responds with all his assets as espa, as a self-employed natural person. This will make this man — what? The social problem of the state. Tell me, opponents of these changes to the law, one thing I expect to do in the discussion below – how else can I help this man than the New Slovenia proposal? I agree with all those who say that the Bachelor Bears are more protected than entrepreneurs are espians, self-employed persons, or, in Levica they say, prekerciers. Many also have to go to social assistance because this system is disorderly. The second case took place five years ago. In a company dealing with machine installations, the worker was injured at work. The employee was tested for protection at work and was taught about all the devices he used, but the accident was due to the negligence of the worker who fell over the lower wall. The company has, of course, received a regression request from the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia worth more than EUR 70 000. The case is still in court today, but this entrepreneur must now pay all costs from bandages, hospital care to transportation costs. The police and the company director also came into the company with a criminal complaint. As a result of the criminal complaint, the company is no longer able to participate in the public tendering process, although it is not the director who is responsible for the accident. What's next for this company? This company is now facing bankruptcy. And I ask you, is that fair? Is that fair? With this legislation, we want to arrange that companies, due to regressive claims that are not limited and can be some tens of thousands of euros, will not fail. And when LMŠ tells them what employees have in these companies of this – yes, they also have the security that the job offers them, the ability to work. Employees in this company will go to the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment. They're going down the road! Is this the security we're talking about? How is this arranged abroad? Because he was formerly a fellow moon – I am glad that he came back to the hall – he said that in fact we want to open up the insurance market here and so on. Yes, of course, we want competition in insurance, including compulsory insurance. We can honestly say this because every competition is welcome in this area, but I ask you one thing: not to compare the system in the United States with the Slovenian system, because I don't know any Slovenian who went to the United States, but now wants to go back from that miserable system. Or I don't see a handful of people waiting for health care from America here in Slovenia. Tell me how many American citizens are coming to Slovenia for medical care or Venezuela, anywhere. How is this arranged abroad? In the German system of occupational and occupational injury insurance, the employer shall not normally be liable to the worker for damage caused by injury at work or occupational disease. There are several arguments, namely that the worker is completely damaged by the social security contributions mentioned above, so that the compensation claim could find social peace in the company and there would be no double injury. There is an exception only if the injury at work is caused intentionally — that is, what we say — which is of course a rare case. I don't even know the employers who would do something on purpose to make it happen to the workers. Anyone who knows such an employer should raise his hand and report him to the inspection immediately. Right away. All forms of negligence are also excluded from the employer's responsibility in Germany. Similarly, in Austria, where the employer only provides compensation to the worker in the event of a purpose, in the event of negligence, compulsory insurance benefits for injuries at work and occupational disease shall be provided without the employer’s repeated liability. Also in Italian legislation, the employer is exempt from civil liability for injury at work or the occupational illness of his worker. This cannot be harmed — I speak in Italy — by my employer for damages that go beyond social security benefits. This is also true if the employer is guilty of the damage caused. However, forgiveness of liability shall not apply if the court finds that the damage is caused by the offence of the employer or his employee. However, the specificity of the Italian regime is that it is often noted that injury at work or occupational illness is caused by a criminal offence and therefore the importance of the exemption of the employer's liability in practice is lower. Regressive claims by the health insurance provider for injury at work and occupational disease against the employer, the cause of the damage, are also regulated. Here we go, say, in the German regime, regression is possible only if the employer caused damage intentionally or from gross negligence. It is also taken into account that an unlimited regression, particularly in case of severe injuries at work, may jeopardise the existence of a cause of injury. Because that is the point, it is said that someone who gets a sentence — an example like this entrepreneur I mentioned earlier — does not fall short of €75 000, but pays €15 000, that it is limited upwards and that the company is functioning further. Because if the company goes down, who's worse? Everybody. This entrepreneur, employees who no longer have jobs, and the state, because he no longer receives taxes from this entrepreneur. If we are to bring foreign investment into this country, foreign investors, then it is only right to arrange it. I am pleased with the position of the Minister of Health, who says that we will sort this out sometime – something is moving. But I really don't understand the parliamentary groups that you've already agreed with us, or the parties that you've already agreed with us in July and August that this will be settled, and now you're saying this isn't right. In particular, I do not understand the LMŠ, SMC – you said in the negotiations that this should be regulated, this part of the regression claims. As for the second measure we are proposing, this is a reduction in the hospital allowance or the payment of hospital benefits, the problem is that self-employed persons are forced to work sick, literally. For espousing individuals, believe me, there are no patients, because every day, when they're on sick leave, they're out of traffic, they're out of competition. Do you think someone who's an espee individual is going to be a subcontractor to some big company or just a subcontractor waiting for this subscriber to get better? No, he won't wait. He'll get another subcontractor. And these people work sick, we know a lot of these cases. Then, for example, if they go to the hospital and then the ZZZ opens the hospital, after 30 days they come back to work and so on. Some employers here, too, can then exploit workers, even in these ways. What we want is just a shortcut. Where would this contribution be made? On the other hand, I don't really understand Levice – you're talking to help the workers, and here you're shortening their whole story. And also with regard to finance in the ZZZ, there is a very large budget there, there are also possibilities for other inflows where this compensation could be obtained. Especially this thing is for the benefit of the workers. Those who speak in their views and say that they do not have any of these changes in the law especially employees – with these changes in the law they are both employers and employees themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Luka Mesec has the floor and Mr Jožef Horvat is preparing. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Actually, I wanted to talk to you about one thing, and I'm going to talk about the other because I was challenged. First of all, with regard to Left's position on the latrines. What Nova Slovenija proposes is not a measure to benefit the nicknames, you do not target the self-employed; you target everyone; from Dušan Šešok to the boss of the subcontractors Luke Koper to the self-employed. It's just that everyone will be burdened with this proposal of yours, but the biggest violators who will be compensated in the event of negligence will be most burdened, and those employers who, I'm going to say, make the most of their employees and have the most of the patients. We proposed last year's law, but it would have targeted specific nicknames. We have proposed this: that the Health and Health Insurance Act should be amended in such a way that a health insurance company for self-employed persons who do not employ workers is said to be self-employed, and that is 74% of all espies, paying hospital compensation with a fourth day of work retention. Now it's true, as it says here, after 30, we say four. This measure is also described in the new coalition contract, which states: “We will find a solution to ensure the social and health safety of self-employed persons in case of hospital leave during the first 30 days in a way that there will be no abuse.” So the coalition agrees, but it is only necessary to find a way not to abuse this system. We will also prepare this as soon as possible and, of course, we are counting on support. But we stress the need to target really self-employed people because here I agree with New Slovenia that many times there are cases where these people, who are self-employed subcontractors of larger companies, work sick, so that they will not be compensated if they go to hospital; and they have a income loss if they do not work because there are no sick leave, they have no employer to pay them by 31 days, and that is absolutely necessary, so that we will and expect support. Second. I have to answer about this controversy about America. Next, Mr. Wrotec asks me why young Slovenians going to America don't come back if it's so terrible. I'll tell you what. Most young and healthy educated people leave for America, and America is a very good country if you are young, healthy and educated, and the problem arises when you get sick. That's when there's a big problem. These people who go there, of course, do not return for a short period of time, because for this personal situation this country is good, but the insurance it provides is something else. If I give you another case because you're asking me if I know someone who lives here and is from America and I'd see it the same way we see it. One year ago, Noah Charney, an American living in Kamnik, wrote a book called Slovenology, or Slovenology, which is a best seller, I think he has already sold over 10,000 copies. It says this, I don't have a book here, so I'm going to read you what he said in the job interview. He says that Slovenia is the best country in the world, and then the journalist asks him if he means it, and he says, "Yes, I mean it, it's researched, I don't mean it. At least after a month I lived in 8 European countries and I observe that Slovenia has the best overall life package, such as the relationship between quality and labour costs, as well as other things such as nature, quality of insurance, health system, kindergartens, relationship with pregnant mothers. If you see what people get for their taxes compared to other countries, this is much better.” That's what the American who lives here said. I think we can only sign this opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I see, I see. Mr. Gardener, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Last year, indeed, the Levica Group proposed an amendment to the legislation on patients for nicknames and in Nova Slovenije we supported these changes and will also support them in the future. As part of the coalition, it appears, you have a greater privilege with this government than we do, regardless of what is proposed. But once again, the difference here with New Slovenia is that even big employers or employers who have, I don't know, some employees, 4-5, that it's not about any ugly capitalist, that it's not about any system users or anything, but it's about those people who really have added value and who are responsible not only for workers, but also for business in this company, they're responsible for paying taxes, employees' contributions. However, I agree that those who violate the rights of workers must be punished by those employers and must be criminally and indemnityly responsible, but this is not the responsibility of the National Assembly, which is responsible for the inspection services to regulate these matters. And I'm not saying there's no injustice going on that there's no violation of the rights of employees. They do, but it's the job of the inspection services to punish those employers. But why would they have a stick for all employers, because I'm sure 99.7% of employers are honest people, they're honest people, not those who exploit employees who don't offer them conditions for work, safety, but they're honest people who care about the development of a company that cares for good wages, so that workers are also protected by health. These people need help, for it is only by improving the business environment that we will come to the time of the dry cows ready. If we don't help the economy, then there won't be any, but then we can't promise to be a value-added society. With regard to the controversy with the United States of America, all of these will probably have enough room someday.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u57	Thank you for your intervention, Mr. Ambassador. He now has the floor, Mr Jožef Horvat, and Mr Starovic is preparing himself. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! Democracy is a wonderful system; it is not perfect, but it is wonderful, the best we know. Here in this very temple of democracy, we face different opinions. But not only do we face, not only do we attack, it should be the least that we try to pay attention to every solution, from wherever it comes, by the constitution of course. Someone's been in the business of not knowing for how long with analysis, statistics, how many times we've done this law, or what kind of investment we've been making. It doesn't matter at all. It is important that we invest it for the first time; for the first time since we have this government and since we have this composition of the National Assembly. First time. If anyone, then Mr Fakin, who is responsible today, is the first person to be responsible for the health of all of us, citizens and citizens of this country, the one who can say and is competent and said that this issue has been at the Assembly of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia for 15 years. This issue has been at the Assembly of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia for 15 years! And in this country, nothing happens for 15 years! Look, if there's a problem with anyone who can say anything – say Jani Möderndorfer – it's a small group. If 15 years of warning and nothing happens, it's with this country, yeah, with this democracy something's wrong. For us in Slovenia and for us in Novi Slovenija, each individual is important. It's precious. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not equal, we are not equal, but we are equal in this country and in human society. I continue to answer why we are dealing with this subject. We are not ashamed to be told that we are the good voice of the economy in the National Assembly. We, Nova Slovenija, advocate a social market model for the economy. The social market model of the economy. This title of the economic model contains our understanding of the economy. Who's the economy? The economy is employers and they are mainly workers, workers. That's why it's the wrong idea that we're working for the capitalists. Not at all. We're working for the workers. And we strive for such an environment, such a business environment that would allow those who have this potential, intellectual, financial, I don't know what else to create businesses, more businesses and as many people as possible to work in jobs that give high wages to say directly. We walk around the field a lot, you all know that. Yes, we were just as I think most of the party heads, parliamentary parties, were at the International Trade Fair in Celje this year. There you are, or we have all been sneezing the requirements of Slovenian crafts and we have all received this booklet Program for the Development of a Small Economy and in here 114 requirements. And such a card with top 20 requirements of Slovenian crafts and entrepreneurship. We can throw it in a basket, what kind of a member group does that, and they say, eh, because a small economy, a craftsmanship, is a business economy anyway. We know that, don't we? And more; entrepreneurs, employers are tax evasion anyway. And more similar terminology; the apprentices are fachidiotes anyway. That's what we heard on the left. O.K., this is their rhetoric, this is their view of the economy, and then it is logical, perfectly normal that they will systematically reject all the proposals of New Slovenia. When I talked about democracy, of course it is perfectly legitimate that some political parties demand more countries in the field of economics, we in Novi Slovenija, Christian Democrats, want as few countries as possible. As much freedom as possible. But our freedom is one that is like a Siamese twin associated with responsibility. Responsibility! It is so difficult for me to feel sorry for a Member who himself said that his opinion was such that he must vote as the Member had decided, which is in some way contrary to the Constitution. But let's leave it at that. It was clear that such solutions required social dialogue. We, the Group of Members, probably none of you, individually, can maintain or initiate social dialogue on this subject. The question is, who will come and what would that mean? The government is the one who has to do it. I will ask the Minister, if I have understood him correctly when he optimistically predicted and said that the problem is, 15 years ago, he has been rolling — again, I repeat — that he will bring solutions that will be comprehensive, because this is not supposed to be systemic, because this is not supposed to be. This, of course, has been the government's response for a hundred years if a parliamentary group or individual Member submits a law. First of all, in the government's opinion, “the solution is not complete, the solution is not systemic”. And what we wanted, dear colleagues and colleagues – that perhaps it would be a little different in this mandate; that we would allow discussion of some solutions. No offense at all, no ill will at all, and I would not have had it in our parliamentary group if we had broken this law in the second reading. Since it is only – this is the case – in second reading, only on the competent committees can we invite the public concerned. This is where the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, probably representatives of small entrepreneurship, the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and so on, is expected to come. Let's hear them say we're listening. I guess not all their ideas are stupid. You say, yes, other countries have it different. Of course! You know how? Better! Better. In 2015 we commissioned our excellent service, in the excellent research and documentation sector, research only on the regression application. Read it. But now it's out of the question, you said you'd throw the marriage away, so there'll be no other treatment, why bother with it now. It's better to pick up a tactic: hit and run. You hit and you say, no, no, that's not good, I haven't read it, but I know it's not good. And then you run. Of course, because it's Friday and it's time to go home; you know, I'm looking forward to being home again after five days today. But we are here to create, create the best solutions for our people, even for the economy. In Slovenia there are about 200,000 economic operators, in Slovenia there are over 95% of small economic operators, who are the backbone of the Slovenian economy. Small businesses and medium-sized enterprises are also the backbone of the European economy. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I simply do not understand this duality – at the trade fair all your bosses nod to the management of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which has honored us with coffee, with pastries. What a representative of the government even says: “It is impossible! Is that so?" You know, there's evidence here that we don't actually listen. We don't listen to our people. I'm incredibly impressed when we walk around the field and see what our people can do. Not only employers, their teams, employers, family business owners tell us that if I give a common denominator: we are a small family company, now it is run by a third generation. We have 60 employees, my employees have no right to buy me a yacht, and my employees, my team, this is my, our biggest capital. Yeah, sure, people are the biggest capital! People are the biggest capital, and it's about them. Sometimes it would be good to simulate a solution. An independent entrepreneur, himself employed, can be a journalist, a journalist, can be any other person, however, sick and sick for three weeks, for four weeks or — God forbid — thrown out of production. O.K., he may have so much in his wallet that without problems he spends this time, when there is no production, if I may say so, when he does not create, when he does not write invoices for the work done. However, they are such that they simply cannot afford to have so much financial resources in stock and cannot survive that period. That is why our proposal to reduce payment for absence from the hospital is. What the Minister did not say, but once in the previous term we discussed with the Head of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance is so-called presentationism. Here you all talked about the absence of the hospital, the Slovenian society is obviously very sick, or about abstention. And presentation means you're actually on your own, because there's no other way out, you're making a sick man. Then what happens? Long hospital and so on, the most Mr. Secretary knows that. At that time I asked the representative of the Institute how much the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance cost presentation. I'd be happy, Mr. Secretary, if you'll at least serve us with an approximate number, because you're all talking about 70 million. Look, you have experts, tell us how much presents cost. You know what that means more than I do. As far as this is concerned, we will also talk about this at the next point regarding the regression claims. I must say, dear colleagues and colleagues, that now that I am going out, when I go out among people – yes, among entrepreneurs – I will feel embarrassed. Today it is from the positions, especially the government coalition – here I have to thank the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the position of the Slovenian National Party, which both of these laws support – but, as I say, when I go out, the economists, employers will say, "Listen, what are we all reckless about?" Are we all tax evasion? Are we all deplorable because we do not provide workers with all the important, necessary, specific means of safety at work? That's how it feels. I'm sorry. We are in favour of this in Novi Slovenija, that the one who is malpractice, the employer who is malpractice and who has been unsettled by negligence, has suffered an accident to sanction it. We're for sanctioning him! Now we're simulating – I do, I did, I did, I had a case at home, and I know very well. The late father was the builder, the builder's master told him, a craftsman with an employee, paid all the possible courses he had to pay for protection at work, buying protective clothing, footwear, helmets and so on; each morning he warned the workers before he sent the construction workers how the employer, this independent entrepreneur, all of his, I don't know, 20 workers, or let each one hold the helmet, that he wouldn't throw it down in the summer heat and the next minute he dropped the hammer on his head? [[…]] The employer's not even there! Usually it's like: the employer leaves, the craftsman leaves, then they say, the boss goes, it's hot, the helmet goes under the bush and so on. It happens. These are life cases. If none of you have ever heard of such cases, I repeat. These are the cases. How is there an accident now that the employer has provided everything and indeed everything? Or is it now literally necessary to destroy it? Before that, my colleague Vrtovec was talking about the amount of 70,000. Yeah, well, somewhere else abroad, they've got this handled better. They do! Look at this background check, look! They're better off saved. Somebody said they had a different one. It's really different, and it's better. There's more to it than that. Here I must say publicly, thank you to the neighbouring country of Austria, that, in particular from our end, the northeast part of Slovenia, gives employment to many and the existence of many families. And thank you for not having them, our workers, for not hitting them with high income. Well, the home country makes it up to them with an extra whip. We can't solve this problem either, and you can't solve it. We have a solution. There will be a debate on this in the next week. I believe you'll reject it. There are problems, and we're here to solve them. Life, society is changing extremely quickly. The solutions that were good last night won't be good for tomorrow. But you've made up your mind, but there hasn't been a vote. Nevertheless, we have the hope to the end, and we count on your sound judgment to let our laws go to another reading. Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u59	I thought I'd give the government's representative a word to answer with a sound mind. But, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, you have the floor, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u60	Thank you very much, President. Mr Jožef Horvat, Commissioner, can be very charming, very kind, very reasonable. However, it is not nice of him, given that he has been in Parliament for so long and knows very well what the rules of procedure are saying. If you mention someone and really mention them – he mentioned me – he knows I can't replicate and answer his claim, which isn't real because I haven't discussed it yet. I call on you, President, to warn you that – of course we will not abuse procedural ones, even now I will not answer because I respect the rules of procedure, I will wait for the debate, but if someone discusses on behalf of the parliamentary group, otherwise I don't mind if you polynomise, but it is unfair if you mention the name and surname. You know the Rules of Procedure very well and it is not nice to do so, because otherwise you will cover up this picture of honesty, honesty with which you perform over time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And we return to the rational response of the Government's representative, the Secretary of State, as you wanted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. I might add only some information that might help the debate, especially as regards the espionage. These are currently over 110 000 in Slovenia. What is most interesting here is that 70% of them pay contributions from the minimum insurance base. This means that their rights, which they will be able to draw in the future, are very limited, but let us talk about various benefits, pensions, anything. At the same time, this is then passed on to the other side of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities when we talk about social transfers. So either we're talking about kindergartens, we're talking about child support, and we're talking about, last but not least, money social assistance, where almost a thousand entrepreneurs are on state aid. Thus we have a structure that has been formed in the past, which we can rightly say is that we do not yet have a definitive definition of what it is and how it belongs to you. We will have this in a short time on the basis of one of the studies being prepared, but we can say that there is one strong seed of precaration. And on the basis of this statement, it is still necessary to say that it seems that many of these seem to have somehow descended into something that may not be a match for him because he is not. At the same time, he may not have given much thought to what his rights would be, what would be on the other side of his obligation. Here I am thinking mainly of the fact that when it is decided to do so, it takes on a very high risk of many things, but it also takes on the other part, which says that, in principle, if it works out well, it will be relatively favourable and will be relatively more able to keep it to itself. Surely the position of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs is that we are not for this so-called espionage, it is said that people are forced to send people or move people into this status, either by force in the sense that they are somehow insinuated by potential employers. Nor is it so that they may decide on their own on the basis of a slightly lower burden, that there will be a greater net profit, for this, in the long run, but also in the short run, causes grief for themselves and their loved ones. At the same time, they can also cause competition on the unfair market because their cost structure is different from those who are employed and pay all contributions and taxes on higher insurance bases. In this regard, I would like to stress, in particular, that in the future we will strive to reduce the overrepresentation in this area, so that among those who pay from a minimum base – which means that somehow they are not doing well – so that they can be as few as possible to be successful, while the rest of them face it more difficult to make use of them as they may be working in the labour market, thus allowing themselves higher income within the structures of others, is said to employers, and then also to prosper on their own, their families, and of course the country in the long run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank Mr State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mr Bozic, for his activation. You did not understand me, I have asked several times to go with these two laws to another reading, because you could also listen to representatives of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia and also small entrepreneurship if you want. I expected you, as a government representative, as the other man at the Ministry, to talk about solutions here. In fact, you have now hit the espies even more – a minimum insurance base. But if you would listen to them, Mr Secretary of State, they would tell you that the stake in the contribution rate was 0.53% ready to be raised by the government. That's what they told us, but you need to talk to them, not the New Slovenia Group. They know our position and we know theirs. And, ladies and gentlemen, at the hearing is the Minister of SMC, Mr. Restorationšek, who and I have supported and is good, is a good Minister for the Economy – of course, this is not what Levi is now – and he has promised to consider the possibility of putting the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Economy responsible for a small economy. We're waiting for this solution, and we'll keep that in mind every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u65	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Vojko Starović has the floor, and Mrs Mojca Žnidarič is preparing. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u66	Thank you for your time, everyone here! My predecessor, Jože's speaker, a good speaker, I must commend him, he said a few things, and he also mentioned what the minister said. Minister Fakin also told us, among other things, that a change of legislation is being prepared, which is commendable. However, I must say on the other hand that we fully understand this issue in the Alenka Bratušek Party, we have also talked with craftsmen and we know about these problems, but the partial solution to these things opens up other areas, is breaking the matter down for us. Last time we found that social transfers made the system so impossible that information technology could not solve it. We're undermining the legal system. If we are promised, we will follow the government to make changes, and we will support these changes, only we must do so systematically. It's a constant excuse, Jože will say, but it's not. It's not! It is not right that we have such complicated legislation that it cannot be enforced, that it is with itself in conflict and once we solve one thing, we tear the other thing apart. And we can't drive this thing through social dialogue, it's in our conviction. The same is true of these patients — they are short - lived. Maybe yes, it's legitimate to lay this down, we just have to say where this money, how much money this money will be provided from, which is the case, if 70% of espionage is paying from below the minimum contribution. It is all forms of social affairs, pensions, compensations and so on, and then, as you state the cases, there are such serious cases when it has to close its drive because it cannot survive. And let's get this system-wide. And we can't go any further, I'll say, all of us, because we're dealing with extraordinary meetings. I've had seven extraordinary committees, three regulars, I don't know how many extraordinary meetings we've had, it's a second regular session, and we keep talking about some initiatives, ways, entrances. It's not working. You must also understand that the new government cannot prepare this matter so quickly, but we believe it will prepare it. Even worse, I find it much harder for me as a lawyer, and it is unacceptable that we are changing the foundations of compensation responsibility, which must put the matter in the previous situation, which is the basis. We can't talk about regression here as punishment, which was mentioned if we put 15 grand if we didn't. It is the employer's responsibility to ensure that the work is carried out safely. However, if the worker himself gives the helmet because of the heat down, the court must find that it is not on the employer’s side, because the employer demanded that they wear a helmet, he taught them about it, and failed to do so consistently, then do not worry that the employer will not answer and will not pay, then it is the worker’s fault because he behaved irresponsibly. So, let's try what I said at yesterday's debate, to have a more structured dialogue, but a dialectic rather than a resilient one, where we stress only one side and challenge the other. Let us find a few common languages, and let us listen to ourselves, and with this I would be absolutely in agreement with Joseph. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Here you go, Mr. Gardener.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I will respond to the last, otherwise productive debate, and I assess the Secretary of State. Where did the money come from, you said. See, in the case of regression claims, we first need to ensure the elements of justice, and once again, I stress, we define three segments here. This is the intentional damage caused by the damage caused by the employer, it is said, where the full fault of the employer is determined, whether it is self-employed or not. In this case, the entire cost is borne by the employer because we cannot agree in the country that someone is doing certain things on purpose and that is why workers are injured. Another time. It's a waste of time. That's a fundamental difference. We're talking negligence, not on purpose. Malpractice, which may also be due to special circumstances. It is said that a worker or employer tries to ensure a good environment, but there are special circumstances, whether it is a slip in the workshop or not, and there is damage. These are the most common cases. Or a case like this, like I did before, where an entrepreneur, a self-employed person fell off a ladder and then comes up with lawsuits with the ZZS and so on. This part would, however, be limited to €15 000. Once again — where did the money come from? And in this case, the money from the insurance companies. The insurance companies don't want to go in now, so it's called a commercial insurance company, into this market. Why not? Due to the fact that this amount is not limited upwards. Do we understand? Upstairs this amount is not limited and no insurance undertaking accepts this risk in order to enter this market. If we do that, then the insurance company will, if we restrict it, then the insurance company will enter this market. They'll have an economic interest. That's right, insurance companies have an interest. ZZZ has an interest, too. I still don't understand anything, but in the third part, it is said, for minor negligence, which we define, but it could go to 0.53 per cent, which is paid by self-employed persons or large employers in the ZZZ. Where's that money going? Is it deliberately spent on this piece, Mr. Secretary? You've been on ZZZS for nine years, and you know exactly where he's going. Where's he going? Is that what this is about? [[advertising from the hall]] So do I. Why not just for this if employers pay for this 0.53 per cent? If I'm paying for something, then I want to have this favor. If I go to the store to buy a dress, I want to have it, not pay for it, and I don't get a dress. Even if you go for coffee, you want what you ordered — a full cup of coffee, not a cup of cocoa. Yeah, that's how it is. This proposal of New Slovenia also ensures the elements of justice; it is said that if the employer pays something, then let him get out. In that case, he doesn't get it out. As for – I stress – we always come to some conflict – responsibilities. Anyone who violates the rights of employees must answer criminally and indemnity. He has to answer. But I'm saying it again. These people, these entrepreneurs who have employed people, are not 99.5%, they may be 99.9. Okay? Definitely. There are people who have businesses who take care of employees. I also stress to self-employed people that these two laws, which we are proposing, are truly in the best interest of these two solutions. The Secretary of State was talking about espionage. The problem was, in particular, in 2010, under Borut Pahor's government, when EUR 6000 was given as a subsidy, that people were opening espouses because unemployment on the other hand was declining. People have opened up espas to get 6,000 euros, no business ideas, no idea what they're going to do after this money runs out. And six months later, these people became a social problem. 6,000 euros went up, and the thing went down. At that time, self - employed people grew completely. Wrong subsidy policy, easy. However, as regards the issue of espionage, we see in particular what is happening – by the way – among the journalists accompanying us, for example, when they are willing to open espas to the detriment of their health and pension insurance. What is this problem, Mr. Secretary of State, which you have dealt with in the past? Too high a tax burden! These people, due to excessive taxes, then open espies because they want more money. And they're risking their health and pension security for this. Second thing. We lower taxes, people will be left over, and there will be fewer so-called forced espions that we are witnessing in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ms Mojca Žnidarič now has the floor, and Mrs Ludmila Novak is preparing. Madam Ambassador, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u70	Thank you. Good-bye, everybody! In the proposal for both laws of New Slovenia, I see quite a few shortcomings and problems, and then I will just list them. First of all, inequality. The proposal for amendments to the legislation refers to craftsmen and entrepreneurs. So what about the other employers? Are we going to cause further inequalities? Second of all, financial consequences. The proponent says it's 50 million. I saw in last year's debate that there were 60 million. Health insurance says it's even 70 million. The health department is no longer in good condition. And if we charge it additionally with these costs, we must be aware of whether there will be a reduction in the rights of compulsory health insurance, i.e. the deprivation of rights for all insured persons, or for higher contributions to compulsory health insurance. It is also my opinion that the cost of the labour force must be the same for all employers, regardless of the form of the company. However, I find it particularly disturbing to think that this change could add to the chastity. We're talking about luxury all the time. We need to cut it down. I'm afraid we're going to make it bigger — why? More companies would force their employees to open up their espas, and in this way they would avoid hospital costs even more, as companies would then have higher costs, large companies would cover hospital costs up to 30 working days and small espas would then have up to 15 days. This certainly can't be, I think we'd do more damage. The existing arrangements for the period itself, i.e. the days in which the employer pays the costs of the hospital, are comparable to those of other European countries. Even now, income losses can also be secured in commercial insurance companies. I also believe that reducing the period of hospital benefits can reduce the responsibility of employers for the care and health of workers. The same is true in the case of regressive claims. There's something else I'd like to point out. New Slovenia refers only to craftsmen and entrepreneurs, and the Labour Relations Act Article 5 makes it clear who employers are. And employers are everyone who employs any employee on the basis of a contract of employment. So, would you accept this for all employers? What kind of financial implications would that be? Certainly this would not be sustainable for the health department. We in the Government must act responsibly and also make sure that state cash registers are sustainable. I am certainly aware of the problem that New Slovenia is facing, and I really hope that this will be regulated in the new health legislation, as the Minister of Health announced at the outset. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u71	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mrs Ludmila Novak has the floor, and Mrs Janja Slug is preparing. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. I was surprised when a colleague said: “We in the Government” We are Members who adopt legislation by our conscience, of course the parties that you are government parties, but you have to listen to the government too, but I would not listen to it if you do not bring the right solutions. Why does New Slovenia so often make the same law? Because the problem is burning because they have been warning the same thing for 15 years now that this problem needs to be solved. Who exactly are you or are you defending? We advocate working people, whether the worker is employed or an employer who works. Well, someone who hires other people has to do a lot of work to get someone to work. I used to be, until 12:00 there was this conference, the May Project – Young Alps Adriatic. Young people from all 4 neighbouring countries, young people who want to engage in entrepreneurship, as well as some Slovenian young people. I was so excited that so many young people from the substation here participated in this conference in this project, which took a long time to reach out to each other, to cooperate, to get in touch and also to create their businesses in the future. Among them was a 19-year-old young man from Rivera, a Slovenian from Rivera, who spoke enthusiastically about how he had already set up his business in high school, how he was now 19 years old, and started to study in Ljubljana, and unfortunately found that this would make it impossible for him to run his business, and now the school is home and runs his business. What he said: "I pay a minimum wage so that I can continue to invest in my company, that someday there will be a lot of business, so that I can hire a lot of people." Above all, in Slovenia, I am deeply disturbed and hurt by this attitude towards people who are creative, creative, who work hard, so that they can offer jobs to others. With us, they are seen as enemies of the country, like those from which everything has to be squeezed out and finally beaten to the head in order to be with all the assets. Yeah, it's about our working people! Thank God people find themselves and are ready to take care of their jobs and hire someone else! Are they really enemies of this system and our countries, when they pay taxes, contributions, and employ people? I don't understand that logic. Whoever's sitting at home wants to get even more social assistance, and whoever created something, they'd take that. Why these regression claims? Because a man could be destroyed by an accident that didn't happen on purpose, but it did. And every day, accidents like this happen. I have already highlighted the case several times when the Member of Parliament, in the previous reference, threw herself over the stairs, because of the carpet. But who's responsible? She must have been a little awkward on her own, and so was that rug. So her injury should be paid by the employer. We've encountered quite a few of these cases. Someone put up a stage and someone came to see him and went down on that stage, I don't know what he was looking at, and fell down. And that man, the owner of this, is going to have to pay $70,000 for his treatment, and he's not suing him because he knows he went up on his own, but the insurance company is suing him. And in such cases, employers cannot protect themselves because insurance companies refuse to accept this responsibility because these amounts may go up indefinitely. That's what this is about! For the fact that this sum is limited. Then there's the insurance company that has to pay for it. However, if this company is destroyed, this employer comes to a standstill, a social problem, as well as those workers he employs. But now we've solved this problem a lot, haven't we? We have saved him very fairly and fairly. That is all we understand is the problem of trying to find the right solution, and we do not support those who deliberately do not care for a better, healthy working environment. But the accident doesn't rest, and it can happen. That's all this is about, and we all know it. That's what the minister knows, and the government knows it, and you know it. Because if you don't understand us, then I can't understand that we haven't been clear enough. And that's why we've put this in so many times, because we're always dealing with these cases where people are destroyed, their assets, everything, they have to shut down the company, because they can't do it and they can't protect themselves. Also, someone who has an employee is, unfortunately, a little healthier, but he keeps going to the hospital for a few days, he has a right, of course he does, but this employer has to work for him, and he has to pay someone extra. It is also fair and fair to lower these burdens. Entrepreneurs are not enemies of the state, but usually people who work hard. However, if they are in breach of labour legislation, we are all underlining, and the inspection must find that they should be punished so that they do not violate labour law. This is not about this, but about purely real things, and the more we create, as legislators, the appropriate conditions for work, the more the state treasury will be filled. Why would I bother to start a business and give work to others if I could only be punished for it? And I have to work harder, and I have more responsibility, and in the end, people look at me like I'm rich. I always say that those who work honestly should be rich, those who just want to live at the expense of the state, but I do not support it, but I am solidarity with those who cannot work who have accidents or other circumstances. Here, of course, I support the social state. But I advocate a good business environment for people to work, create and have some of it, not just punishment. So let us reconsider once again, and if in fifteen years government parties have failed to resolve this problem, let us try to solve it together. We're MPs. If we understand the problem, then let us try to help as Members to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u73	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. You have the floor, Mrs Janja Slug, and Mr Alexander Reberšek is to be prepared. I don't know if I made a good point, Reberšek, Reberšek. I'm sorry. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u74	Thank you very much! We have heard many things in previous discussions, but we have heard many words about entrepreneurs, craftsmen with whom I cannot identify. I know that, of course, those words did not actually fly to our parliamentary group, they flew to any other group, but I would like to point out, on behalf of the Modern Centre Party, that we do not perceive craftsmen and entrepreneurs as enemies of the people. Not at all. And that we are well aware of the problems they face daily, that we are also aware that a number of things need to be settled so that they can work out better conditions and we have shown that we understand them already in the past mandate. We also understand the problem of absence from work due to illness or injury in the so-called espies. Of course, this is the problem they face, and we also agree in the SMC that this is definitely a problem that needs to be addressed properly and that needs to be addressed. The problem with independent entrepreneurs, when a disease persists for a long time, with entrepreneurs who are already struggling to break through from month to month to cover the basic costs they have and, of course, there is still a pressing problem. Especially in cases where they don't reach those thirty days of hospital stock, but they do come out somewhere, say, by the 25th, the 18th day, and actually they don't get anything back from the health department. I have met too many of those in the field of culture myself, when, in fact, it has to give up a certain project for that time and so on, which is not, of course, a return; either from the cancellation or from the cancellation of a specific project, of course, then there is no going back. But what we have on the table today is not what I'm talking about. That's what it is, but it's not just that. And what the proponent here is not just a title and only those essays that I have just talked about and that you are also talking about. It should be borne in mind that different statuses, different forms have different advantages, as well as different advantages, but also have different weaknesses. Anyone who establishes a company, espé, part of anything, must, of course, carefully weigh his decision before he lets it go. There are, of course, some advantages in espionage, which have already been exposed today. This is a relatively lower taxation, smaller contributions and so on. But there are also negative aspects of what we are talking about today. In fact, it is still with all employers, I hope to say, whether there are few bright exceptions which are sufficiently aware of the importance of safety and health in the workplace, ensuring adequate conditions for employees, care, in addition to those basic things which, of course, employees must be offered to the employee in order to do well to offer him something else. Every time we talk, we are always the only ones in the conclusion that prevention is better than curative and even cheaper. Even for these small employers, nothing else applies, is the same. You know that many times we also meet on various committees with representatives of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work, and we have heard from them that despite the favourable economic climate, despite the growth in the economy, the inspection does not detect that individual employers would pay more attention to this area. That here, in fact, with all these positive movements that have occurred, but in this area, of course, nothing has changed. If I am not mistaken, in 2009, when the health reform was introduced, there was even a proposal that, for example, up to three working days should not be required to go to the doctor at all, in order to call the worker to be sick and to benefit from a hospital stock without a certificate or a visit to a doctor, of course, unpaid days, and that would relieve both employers and doctors. I am mentioning this because I would like to emphasise that the matter is not so uniform that we could say that we are going to change the two articles here, and now this is it. The proposals over a number of years were large and negative effects of that time were strongly stressed that this would only cause workers not to benefit from these three days, because, of course, they would not be paid for those three days. What my point is in this is that every measure we take, even though it may seem to be good and attractive at first sight, also some of the negative salaries that it brings with it and which certainly need to be constantly reconsidered. We have heard today that there are about 32 000 employees per day in hospital in Slovenia. We have also heard information on how the cost of paying these hospitals is actually increasing at the annual level. However, if I mention only for comparison in 2013, this cost was 224 million, while for 2017 this cost was 315 million. These are really huge numbers. Even when I look at the draft of this proposal that we have on the table today, and if I listen to the opinions that have been expressed today from different sides, I can see that we do not really know what number we are talking about. Although there is one number written in here, but when we look at what is actually being regulated, not only does it really cover espouses, but this change refers to everything, I argue that these effects cannot be assessed. And because it is not possible to assess them and because we know in what state the health treasury is in, what problems we have with waiting species and so on, it would be very irresponsible now to transfer this amount, whatever it is, to the health treasury just for the reason that we do not know what will then happen in the health treasury; whether we will have to reduce the scope of rights, whether we will suffer from the quality of service delivery, or whether we will therefore increase waiting periods or even get higher contributions because of this. It is said, however, that every employer on the other hand will receive some expense that is not being paid now. So I think that this is a matter that needs to be settled, especially when we are talking about espies, that comparable situations need to be settled in the same way; we cannot draw the line, but now it is the same for everything, but that it is necessary to take a thorough look at the matter on the basis of thinking about solving the same situation in the same way. As far as the regression claims are concerned. Of course, there is one information; last time I was looking at all the problems concerning the city where I was elected as an MP, Celja says, how even in Celje hospitals grow from year to year and increase, and from here also these strong numbers, which we then come up with, which are essentially ordinary mortals, we don't even know that we're talking about a few hundred million and more. In view of all that has been said, given what the Labour Inspectorate also notes, I doubt that these numbers will begin to decline in the near future. In fact, we should start to raise awareness of all employers, as I said earlier, who are not aware of the importance of safety and health at work, the importance of awareness of employees, not to say then to employees, what I need to wear these protective shoes, but if I am better at walking around in shoes, or why would I put a helmet on my head when I climb the ladder, if I’m under pressure – now I’m a little banalized, but even workers are not aware of it. If we talk about a long-lived society, and we also talk about how we will have to work longer and longer, it is said, up to a certain age, of course, it will only be possible and only if we take care of our health before that, if employers take care of employees' health at this and this age that we want to achieve, of course, they will be able to work at all, so that they will be relatively healthy. However, it must be said that already the employer is not responsible for any minor error and does not answer without limit if, of course, it does not prove to be a causal link between what happened and the employer's conduct. In all of this, it must always be kept in the introduction that the worker is an increasingly weak customer. So if the employer does not take care of some of the basic things that the employer is obliged to take care of in the area of safety and health at work, if he hires a worker without a medical examination and so on, of course the employer will answer in such a case. And we can't say that there's no such thing as a worker alerting to certain things, but the employer just doesn't do certain things. Of course, there are also very responsible employers to avoid being misunderstood. The applicants also spoke about some of the items for €90 and €100 000, and so on, which employers were supposed to receive from regression applications. Of course, you can speak, but the official information is that on 31 December 2017, only 6 lawsuits totalling EUR 50 000 were opened on the basis of regress claims. So, all six of them. I don't know what cases you're talking about right now, but I'm sure that's not the case here, because that's the official information we got from the government. And I cannot agree with what has been said on the part of Mr Tonin, and I take this as little as an insult that it is shameful that we will not support this proposal in the first reading. I cannot agree that it is rude if we do not support something, which we do not really think would solve in an appropriate way a problem, which we are aware is very important and needs to be addressed. I'm sure that's not rude. Given all that has been said today and what I have just said myself, of course at this point in time I cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u75	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. The speaker has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Perhaps we were misunderstood when Mrs Slug said that we were talking about the bills that had been issued. We're talking about cases that are under way. What has already been published has already been published. But we're talking about cases for which these people have also turned to us and we believe them because we wouldn't write in e-mails or e-mails for free, that they're in a certain treatment and that this could happen. And it happens to them. And it happens to them. What you said was rude if you did not support it — nothing would be rude. But you know what hurts? The fact that, over the entire previous term, Nova Slovenija has tabled these changes in legislation and has highlighted the issue. Progress today is that the Minister of Health has already said that this needs to be addressed. But the problem is in the former government, because in four years nothing has changed in this area. Nothing, Mr. Secretary of State, who was a member of the government, nothing. The problem is that today we will not accept this in order to at least allow for a second reading where, through the committee in Parliament, we can also change our proposals, but that we have invested this in good faith this time; no, indeed, in good faith, because we believe that you will accept this, given that we have already negotiated this in the framework of coalition negotiations. So if New Slovenia were to join the coalition, it would be and you, Mrs Slug, would speak otherwise, if I understand correctly. Isn't it? Would you or wouldn't you? Or everyone who opposes it is sitting in a coalition today. You were just waiting for our signature, Mr. Christmas, the coalition. And today would be over or what? Now I understand more and more that what is signed is not true. But me? I would also like to read from the Chamber of Commerce, Mr President. See, the Chamber of Commerce sent a letter to the National Assembly and in this letter it is addressed to the National Assembly to adopt these amendments to the legislation that we are proposing. First, they confirm that “the period following the current legislation, when compensation is paid to the employer, is 30 working days, which is absolutely too long, so we support the amendments to this law in order to reduce it to 15 working days.” And then, in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, they say that they agree that the employer must do everything in his power to ensure safety, health at work, in accordance with applicable legal and sub-legal standards, “although in our opinion they are too many”. However, they point out that, although the employer has more or less everything to do with safety and health at work than positive rules require him to do, for example, he has a safety statement with a risk assessment, the worker has been subjected to a prior and similar health check, the worker has received an examination from protection at work, the employer educates them against it, the employer gives guidance to workers on measures to ensure safety at work, the employer reminds them of violations, the obligation to carry protective funds and, of course, absolute safety at work, the employer cannot in any way provide workers with any guarantee. There are always cases, as Mrs Ludmila Novak has pointed out before, to the accident that took place here in the National Assembly with one delegation. These cases can occur, believe me, very much, and then employers or self-employed persons who are self-employed are responsible. Furthermore, the Chamber of Commerce states that the purpose of the restriction is not to jeopardise the existence of an entity causing damage. Additional arguments for such an arrangement: the ZZZS and ZPIZ regression claim for damage caused by traffic accidents shall be addressed to the insurance undertaking in which the originator is covered by car liability, commercial insurance undertakings having a limited amount of regressive claims if the damage arising from traffic accidents is concerned. Regret claims shall also be limited under PIZ-2 if the cause of the injury is a natural person and the unequal treatment of the individual causes of the damage, the entrepreneur compared to the natural persons. These are the arguments for admission, which were also sent to Parliament by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. It is very strange that a member of the parliamentary group of other parliamentary parties can literally ask – not for my own sake, not for my own sake, not for my own sake, my relatives have it, your relatives have it – for those of the weakest entrepreneurs, to let this part go into further reading and to talk again in the National Assembly, how and what we will change and that proposals will also come from the coalition. For the signals are on the one hand that this system should be regulated, but I am satisfied in this national assembly of one hearing, namely, that we will someday arrange it systemically. And before this coalition aligns itself to deal with something systemic, it will be the end of the mandate. This was the case with the previous coalition, as far as this area is concerned. That's what's the chance at next week's vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, Mr Alexander Reberšek, you have finally succeeded in coming Ahasuerus, and I have not seen that. [[…]] Then you still don't get to the point. Mrs. Janja Servant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u78	I won't be long, but I still have some things to answer. You have been referring to some coordination today, how we have been coordinated, how we have agreed to do so. I assume that these were negotiations for your entry into the coalition, and that's when you coordinated with us. But let me remind you that you're not in the coalition, and you didn't sign it, and we didn't sign it either. If we signed, yes, we'd have it on the table today, but we'd have it on the table so that we'd take into account what we said the first time you put it in. And we were talking in fact I went to see magnetograms, all the time the same things, and these things are still not really taken into account in this proposal of yours. [[…]] This is also the reason why today is not shameful, because this has been said on your part, not on your side, Mr Vrtovec, but on the part of colleague Tonin, that we will not support this because it cannot be properly corrected only by what we now have on the table. I'm going to say again that the number I mentioned earlier is a number that relates to open affairs, so it's not comparable to what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u79	Madam Ambassador, thank you for your position. Mr Alexander doesn't have a word again, I don't know what we're going to do, but Mr. Gardener has one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u80	Not only was this a matter of coordination and some Member can confirm it, but it was harmonised. It is precisely that we are now being confirmed that much of what has been coordinated would not be kept up to date. But another thing, Mrs Sluga; Minister Restorationšek was at the hearing before he became Minister, he was just talking about this, that it was necessary to arrange it, and he couldn't believe, Minister of Economy, that we had it arranged. That is why my colleague Horvato and I supported him at the hearing, because he is a good minister because he is doing well and because he has said so, we will arrange it, even though it is not his area. Minister Restorationšek is a very strong minister, even substantively, and I think it would be time for the government to come with these proposals to the Parliament itself. But you will see that next year, at this time when we will re- table this proposal for a law in New Slovenia, remember these words – regressive claims will not be settled. Or is it, Mr. Secretary? Promise?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u81	I think this is a debate. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u82	First you have to ask for a word. And since you haven't applied, Mr. Alexander Reberšek is in front of you, and then the government will be. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u83	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't know if you're aware, but when he's in hospital, he doesn't get any wages, and he has to pay his own contributions, and they're from 372 euros. It's not that small, is it, even if you're doing an activity that doesn't provide you with enough good survival and you don't have enough money ready for bad times? However, if the disease causes them to stop their work, they may lose their orders, lose their income, or even close their business. Although they have another option that I believe is most often served, and this is to make them sick. We don't have these problems, we go to the hospital whenever we want. And they have these problems. We're here to save them. Because of their status for the first 30 days, i.e. practically 42 calendar days, they cannot apply compensation to the hospital. That is why in New Slovenia we have proposed that we reduce this time to 15 days in order to make a substantial contribution to them. But I've listened to your views and I'm surprised why you don't support such a proposal. I have also come to the conclusion that there is only one difference between us and you — in the letter “m” and in the letter “v”, says “we” or “we”. If you had suggested it, we would have supported it because we proposed it, and you wouldn't have supported it. I give you my hand, I am waiting for you to come up with a proposal to raise the minimum wage, which I will be most pleased to support, even if it is proposed by you, of course, if it is coordinated with the social partners. I'll support this proposal, I'm waiting. And you, obviously not ours, which is good for independent entrepreneurs, are good for our citizens, who are independent entrepreneurs. I really cannot understand, for cooperation alone will bear fruit. Espe and the hospital is a concept that only works in some of the heads of healthy officials who just set all these rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u84	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The word has been given by the Government, Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u85	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I cannot guarantee that the law will save this second year; for two reasons: because I think that social dialogue is necessary, there must be consensus between the social partners, employers and workers, not only on this issue, but on the broader issue. I have witnessed too many attempts to change different levels of contribution and interests. For example, we only have five for farmers, and we all have 25 categories, and we have 121 basics, which are mostly created by compromises between this or that pressure and not reflecting the principle of equal solidarity. As I know, the Germans have 13-45 for all and we have 13-45, and then the pensioners 6-and-a-half, there's already a difference, and so on to the espionage gap, those who don't pay their salaries – 130 euros. And here solidarity is very great. Here we need to know that these contributions are not so terrible. Because I've been espa myself for three months, and I know how hard it is to pay for it, especially if you don't have any income. This is perfectly clear to me, but this needs to be built in the context of a broader social agreement and solidarity. We've got a hat waiting for us, and that's gonna be a problem, and we've got some waiting days ahead of us. Some information to see all the problems and what we're dealing with right now. In 2014, we paid 225 million for the hospital stock as a whole. Today, 2018, the projections are 341 million. It's 120 million more. So either we're so sick or these benefits are so acceptable that people decide to do so. In 2017-2014 we had more than one year in stock – these are certainly sick, no – 3 000 434 people, today we have at the end of the year, more than one year, today 8 000 50 people. This is one of the problems that these differences of 100 million we cannot then give to shorten waiting periods. These are systemic problems that need to be addressed together with the Ministry of Labour and also in this National Assembly. He's talking about this complexity. We can't take one out and save it without the consequences on others.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u86	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a word, Mr. Yuri. But prepare yourself, Mr Darius Krajčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. As you can see, my colleague, who you're proposing, I've been here all this time, and I haven't even gone to the bathroom for one reason, because I know this issue very well. Even as I said in the introduction, with a number of your suggestions, of course, I agree. Also, the proposals for craftsmanship and this entrepreneurship that you have put into the National Assembly in general, which we have in circulation, are written many of these things. But I'm very aware that these things are impossible to get through in one move. Therefore, it is my primary wish, above all, that we bring at least a few of these things through this House. The path that you have now pointed out, given that you have said that you have been investing for several years and that the coalitions have been so different, but there has been no step forward, that is to say that the path was not the right one. What is the right path now I do not know and it is not right that you are now burdening our new Members with what has happened before. Also, my friend Jože, you say I'm old enough. No one's gonna convince me how to vote. That's what I'd ask. I won't ask you either. In the Desus Group, we have agreed to vote in some things on our conscience. So I would say right away that I don't have to tell you how I'm going to vote. That is how I would like you to take this work as it is in the future, at least as far as we are concerned, the two of us who have taken this work seriously in Parliament. There are things I'm going to support, things I won't support, and every thing I won't or will not, and I'm going to try to argue. But my arguments are this: for 35 years I have been engaged in craftsmanship and I do not feel it, you rhetoricalists who said that we Members or that people hate espionage. It's such rhetoric, I can't even accept that it's true. It happens that some say that this one is a craftsman, but basically all craftsmen, entrepreneurs in a place where they work are respected. But we also have exceptions, you've figured it out. They are craftsmen who do not pay contributions that neglect workers who neglect employees. That's what it is, but believe me, in the vast majority there are those who do very well. Let me tell you what it's like. Self-employed – is another thing like espeii or small companies with five to ten employees. If one goes to the hospital, say more than 10 or 14 days, he can survive, but if he goes to the hospital himself, I totally agree that this is a big handicap. That is why I see the solution in this matter that, for the first time, we go to serious independent entrepreneurs, tradesmen, because now this law, as I understand it, is of wider importance and it interferes with the other rights of others. What is basically in my philosophy is that for all people in Slovenia, for all activities, social, work, craftsmanship, we must take the same. So we're all the same before the law. If we're doing something, especially as a craftsman, I wouldn't want him to just because of me or because of us who are here right now, but something to stand up to have more rights than others. Believe me, the craftsman who does this doesn't want to do this. But with his work he wants the respect that workers feel for him to keep working. My solution would be in particular this; I fully agree on the regression claims and I suggest that we go together and just try to resolve it. Maybe we'll get it through. It is said that these claims are relatively numerically small, but the one who got it, who achieved it, actually hits it in the pocket, and I agree that the company can actually go to waste. The numbers, as said by Mrs Slug's colleague, Mr Vrtovec, are different. Thus, in Slovenia we have 50,000 Euros of such claims, and I see no problem here with the law, but with a different measure, which I do not know now, this can be solved. So, personally, I'm very much in favour of regressive claims really getting to some normal limits, so that the individual who gets into an accident won't be thrown into some unfinished story. Like I said, all craftsmen have certain requirements. At these chambers, we are talking, we have written these things down, and what you have said is that there are a lot of these measures, as a Member, I would just like those measures to go through Parliament at least gradually. If I see now that this path that you have proposed is not feasible, why should I be the one to say it now, and I will vote against it if I know that it will not be possible to proceed. Otherwise, many of the measures you listed, your rhetoric, which you said, holds in most cases. It's a little, clearly, coloured, because it has to be because of some thing to introduce itself, but otherwise I'm sure it's your good intentions. But if a good purpose is pursued in the wrong way, if we see that it is not going – let us find another way. This second path, as Mr Minister said, is that legislation is in preparation, as far as those payments of patients are concerned, and the regressive payments are not in the process; even if it is brief, let us try to open up gradually and suggest that we separate this and that you go as you said you will go back to Parliament next year. [[…]] If we don't make any changes, believe me, we're gonna be hard on this side too, because you can see that that's why we're here to save something – we won't be able to say anything, yes, and now we're going. If we just said no, then we can't. So we have to make a fundamental change. Change what? I don't know. You said yourself that you expect us to let this law go to second reading, and then we can discuss it. Why don't we get rid of this before we do? That is why we can coordinate, for we are no strangers. So, I'll see you in the hallways, and we'll sit in the office, and we'll try to make a proposal that'll be acceptable for most people. It's the only way that can lead us to save some things for this little man. Otherwise, believe me, we are the craftsmen and entrepreneurs that we were, and who we are now, are respected. However, there are exceptions that can spoil an average and also give the wrong signal in the eyes of others. I want to get rid of this; we cannot build on those who are exceptions; it is said when someone exits and then moves out. This is not a pattern of our entrepreneurship. What worries me personally is that this law does not really limit itself to independent entrepreneurs or self-employed people. Self-employed, as we now call them fine nicknames, that's, that's espei, that's just another story. This is a pure social transfer, which I would not have mixed together at this stage, because this law does not, but says, a single entrepreneur, espé, but self-employed are the first problem we should solve. Even with these regressive claims, I don't think we should give up, and believe me, this is a subject that I'm going to deal with personally, as well as you, for a long time, and together let's try to get some legal stuff through. Otherwise, you need to know, the legislator who is, and the Ministry of Government, has to do something for the whole, for all Slovenians. I am also in favour of having all the same rights, all the same duties, that we are respected in some society, that it doesn't matter who you are, what you are, what you do. Which is why I say, given that I've been in reverse for so long, I tell you, neither in the previous system nor in this system do I feel that someone, because they're in reverse, would deny it. It's another thing if you two don't get along. Because of the work itself, there was never a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Darij Krajčič has the floor, and Mrs Alenka Jeraj is preparing. Member, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word! Initially, I come from the economy, from the private sector, that I was the Director of the Association at the Economic Chamber in the private sector, that I also taught entrepreneurship at the university theoretically, so that somehow I have a practical and theoretical basis, so that I can have a very qualified debate on what I will now say. Individuals are primarily responsible for the health of their workers; they are said to be workers, and employers are immediately responsible for the health of their workers. And we must never forget that when we talk about where to allocate the costs of patient stocks, injuries at work and so on. Whether fifteen days is the right number or thirty days is the right number, of course we can debate this. Surely, however, if the cost at the beginning of the hospital is on the employer’s side, then he too will try to allow good conditions for his employee, he must be motivated to do so. We must not exploit the worker, but there must be such an atmosphere in the entrepreneurial environment that it will be a feeling that all together create added values there. One of the instruments is that in the beginning, including financially, the employer is responsible for the patient stocks. I have been observing for some time how endlessly easy a policy option gives people – or in this case, entrepreneurs – some benefit, but in this case financially, never tells how this is paid. If we transfer the company's expense to a cashier's office, that's where the cost will be. I would like to welcome this proposal, if you say, yes, this new source will be provided from there and there, the cost of this transfer from the employer to the cashier is that, which means that we have to raise the contribution rate by so much and so. If your proposal also contained this, I would be happy to support your proposal, but of course I cannot. Not long ago, the same policy option here, in the National Assembly, drafted some amendments to the income legislation that would give around EUR billion to taxpayers, but we had no way of knowing where to replace this money in public treasury. I must say that I have high confidence in this government that it will also draw up legislation that will systematically resolve this. What brings me to that confidence? If we look at the functioning of this government in the last days, which is not even a hundred days since it was appointed, they have agreed on the average, which they have never done before eight years, and each year they have determined the average for the municipalities, the average has risen that some pensioners have received, that they have agreed in the public sector, and there will obviously be no strikes that have been announced that some social transfers have also been discussed. It follows that the Government works and works in a way that reduces conflicts in society, which is extremely important to it. Now, I will use, if you will, the honourable President, the rhetoric of a Member of the Group, not only words, but also, as they are called, a melody. It's amazing how easily he promises a political benefit to someone, but he never tells you how much it's gonna cost someone else. It's amazing how easy it is! And they had the chance to be in the coalition, and somehow they didn't want to. Then we could take it through a partnership in the coalition, much easier than we are now. But of course, then the second part of this story should also be told and closed, that is said to be profitable, not just cost-effective. As far as I know, we have unevenly burdened payers. We've heard that before today. That espies are slightly less burdensome than workers who are regularly employed in working organisations, businesses. I must say that I recently spoke to a very well-known Slovenian entrepreneur who runs a company in my constituency, is the manager of this year, and he made it very clear to me: “My employee pays higher contributions and taxes than some espa there, which on the outside shows a lot more signs that he is richer than this worker.” In short, there are imbalances in here that I believe will be resolved in this mandate. This is also a source of discomfort. I have heard again today that Nova Slovenija advocates a social market model for the economy. But this absolutely, my dear colleagues, does not go with Milton Friedman, who you have also advertised so much not long ago. Milton Friedman is an extreme liberal economist. The most extreme. And with social market work there is nothing, only market work, where everything came to market, not only what we know today, what is on the market, but also security, education, if you want, intelligence, military, police, everything. Issuance of IDs and the like. So this together simply does not work, and I suggest you, dear colleagues, if you decide whether you are going to Friedman's model or you are going to actually social market. Thanks to Austria for hiring us workers, for not being up in the northern part of unemployment, you know. That's how I hate to hear it. [[…]] Austria is not doing this in order to reduce unemployment, but doing so because we have a very highly educated workforce, they need this workforce there, because otherwise we should not have the economic growth they have, and simply today in the world it is no longer just about looking for resources such as money, raw materials and the like, but for resources they call people. Of course, as much as we can thank the Austrians for hiring the workers, the Austrians or Austria must also be grateful that these workers have been educated by this country with public money to such a level that they can now be so competitive in the labour market. Last but not least, it certainly has an impact on the labour market in us, when it is also likely that wages must be increased for us, because it is also the case that market mechanisms apply on the labour market as well as elsewhere. We have heard today that 70% of people, espouses, pay contributions from the minimum wage. Yeah, you really can't expect much of that! A neighbor there said to me, he is now retiring to have only EUR 400. But he said, I haven't paid much in my entire life, and I can't imagine getting anything more. Very logical: if you pay a little, you get a little! So when someone comes suddenly with low incomes, with pension benefits, then in the final phase into a state when this social problem becomes a problem, of course, he's on the back of the country, but he's always paid up, like, a little bit, and someone who pays little can't expect to get much. This does not, of course, reduce the story that 57% of the pension, which is supposed to be a dose percentage, is large enough. Absolutely not. It has to be raised! But if you're paying a little, you can't expect much. As you know, we have also agreed in the coalition that we support all the opposition's good proposals. Thus we have already supported a good proposal, including a recommendation to the Government to turn a little better towards cohesion. This proposal is not good, so we cannot support it, but if it were more complex and more complex to solve these problems, I would certainly support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u90	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As the last reported Replica to a Member of Parliament? [[…]] Mr. Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u91	President, thank you very much. I think the forerunner, the forerunner in some parts of our debates, has misunderstood us completely. By quoting Friedman and the social market economy, it just lands on the labels that are always glued to our heads, on our foreheads, the Left. But that's simply not true, Mr. Ambassador! If you are reading, if you are reading the details, then take our program into your hands and you will see that we are betting on the social market economy because it is typical of any Christian democracy from Germany down. If you are accurate, then you do not agree to the manipulations that Levica does, to prevent us, beautify us, that we are neoliberals, to defend Friedman and so on, because in Slovenia there is a neoliberal swearing, because within this everything that is wrong in capitalism has come together, and it is a very handy swearing. Very handy. However, our point in the economic programme has always been that there is a need to end the agreed economy and truly allow market principles and thus strengthen the social market economy. Of course, this is painful for some because this agreed economy is a super milking cow for many in this country. You know, even the bank hole was created because the guys and the girls on the vampires were talking about how they're going to split the loans and what they're going to do, and we're all going to do it together, because of this agreed economy, then we're going to return billions and millions. There's one more thing where we're either completely abnormal or misunderstood. We believe this is because this is your first term and start. When it comes to general treatment when it comes to first reading, we talk about principles. I understand that you may have a technical problem, but you promised in the elections a different policy, the end of division, we will work together. Where is this "together" now? Where's the different policy now? If it were really a different policy, this law would be allowed to continue at first reading and will be corrected at your request. Look, we don't have a majority in this House. You have a much larger majority than we have, and each article in this law alone could be fixed exactly as you want. Exactly. That would be a constructive, proper approach, but you're going back to the ways of old politics. It's another winter theme. From the Prime Minister, from you forward, you've obviously all decided to repeat this thesis: you had the chance, but you didn't join the government, but I can always say [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u92	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry to interrupt. You had a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u93	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u94	I'm afraid your three minutes are up, but I don't know why the clock didn't warn you. So please finish your thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'll finish my thought. So if we had our chance, we would certainly take this opportunity, but on one condition, it is that you would clearly and firmly say no to the Levis, but you are not.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u96	Thank you very much. He's got the next replica. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm asking for peace in the hall. Mr. Horvath has the next replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u97	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Thank you for your discussion with my cousin, Dr. Darius Kryčic. Always an extremely good rhetoric. Now, why the replica? You have a great memory, a clean ten. I mentioned Friedman once, that is true when I spoke here about the economic freedom scale or, more precisely, about the economic freedom of the world, the annual report for 2018, and that this economic freedom began to be measured, I think, what the three Nobel laureates – do not hold me to the point. One of them is this truly famous son of the poor Hungarian Jews, Milton Friedman. New Slovenia, I don't think we have it written down in our core programme, the economic programme or the party's programme, not at all. Now, if he has already initiated this idea of measuring the economic freedom of the world, it is logical to defend freedom in the economy. You did not ask me, but as far as I am concerned or New Slovenia, we are liberals, as far as economic policy is concerned, we want more freedom, less country. Those freedoms, which I have already shown today, have to do with responsibility. Of course, Milton Friedman, because he was a very interesting gentleman who was interesting to read, in left-wing circles he was considered a Lucifer of capitalism. That's how we can read it. As for the migrant workers from our work, if I may say so, Dr. Krajčič, Slovenia, that is, the northeast part of Slovenia; yes, indeed, I said thanks to Austria. That's right. That's how they appreciate our people. Probably Magna is also in Maribor, so in Slovenia, because they appreciate our people. But when they come to me, probably not to you, these people come to the office of the Member, who come to show me the bills, how much extra income they have to pay, you know, and my eye gets ugly too.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The next and final debater is Mr Robert Pavšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u99	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. I am once again surprised at the theatricality, although the issue we are dealing with is very important. You're saying that we're looking for the best solution, but at the same time, you're putting the responsibility of not accepting it on us, even though here, in this house, it was creating a system that led to these anomalies that you're exposing and absolutely must be saved. It is not a question of "we" or "we", it is a question of purpose. Previously, you yourself said that this time you have put marriage into good faith — does this mean that you have ever invested it in bad faith? I believe not; well, that this was only an awkward expression. One thing I am more concerned about today is that we are talking about putting out the fire instead of talking about prevention. Health abstention is on the rise, which, of course, also has a higher burden on both the state treasury and employers. According to the National Institute of Public Health, everyone assumes about half of the burden; therefore, patients are half of the state cash registers and half of their own. This year's half-year absence was 4.7%, which somehow on an annual level is about the same as every year, about 4.5% of us have a hospital absence. The main question should therefore be how to reduce the number of patients, not how to pay them or who will pay them. Because if there were fewer, there would also be more money in the health register and even employers would be left with more. After a few years of data, the economy loses 10 million working days each year due to the absence of hospitals, that is critical. And abstention, health abstention is a serious social problem. Let's ask ourselves why people don't go to work. There are many factors that affect the level of health abstention. These originate largely from the labour and social environment and only to a lesser extent from the health status of employees. Mr Fakin is well aware of this text because he appeared in the brochure of the Institute for Health Insurance, which had already warned of an increase in health abstention eight years ago. Among the factors that may have a positive impact on altitude management in Slovenia are undoubtedly the most important - it is noted - measures for safety and health at work; the responsibility of employers for an adequate, healthy working environment; the increased motivation and stimulation of workers for shorter and shorter absences from work or faster return to work; the level of social security that in certain cases is not intended to encourage absence from work; the relevant legislation that would not allow individuals to abuse their rights; and the relationship of the health service to absence from work. But here is no longer just a question of who will pay the hospital's absence, but why does it come to her? This is what is most important, and we should basically be the most afraid and even the most committed to putting an end to this. Thus, it is not strictly an illness or an organic condition, but it is the main culprit to seek out the business climates and the employees themselves. We heard here a few days ago that wages don't follow productivity, which is the result of capital accumulation. Although I am a liberal, I am not explicitly left-handed, but this imbalance, this accumulation on the one hand, has the effect that an average person is justly offended because he feels exploited, unrespected and particularly powerless. That is why I think that we should be dealing here today mainly with the reasons why this has occurred, not with the consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u100	Thank you very much. As we conclude this part of the debate, we are moving on to a time when the word is still proposed and the Government has given up on the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Thank you to the last speaker for listing the reasons for the hospital’s arrival – and I agree that the reasons are more than justifiable that this is a problem. That you are a liberal and left-wing – this is only a Slovenian liberal. The liberal is left-handed. We know that in Slovenia. But sometimes we'll be able to open this debate somewhere. We have two options next week for today's debate. The first is to start with measures to improve the business environment, which means that we will be even more open to foreign investment, for the development of entrepreneurship, small economy, family entrepreneurship, which brings me to New Slovenia. Or we have another option to follow what was in past mandates and say, "Sometimes, we'll sort this out systematically." I think the first option proposed by New Slovenia, honourable Members and Members is better.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u102	Thank you very much. You've got your word. However, since the time set for the debate remains, I ask if there is any interest in speakers. Because yes, before you log in, I would like to warn you that you can log in by pressing the microphone key. However, if the applicant or representative of the Government wishes to apply to the debate, please also apply by pressing the microphone button. In this case, you will get the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. Now I'm opening a debate and asking for an application. The first is Mr Jani Ivanus, and Dr Dari Krajčič is to be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u103	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present, Mr. Secretary! I'm going to be very brief, but I've been listening to you all day, I've been making some opinions, but I still have to do a little bit of, say, homework, salt. We may have heard everything from the proposer, from the coalition side, what is good, everyone in some way agrees that the matter is – somehow going in a positive direction, but there is also some obstacle on the right side, or on my right side, that you will not get it wrong. The main issue is the impact of 60 to 70 million – or they lack it if these two proposals are accepted. I would say so – but I have to tell Mr Krajčič anyway, because he reiterated to the applicant that he does not know where to get this money. He wrote: I will recite: Mr Sharc, average, pensioners, unions, social transfers, last time we were critical – there are 70 million immediately available. [[…]] But let's just leave it. Mr. Sharac hasn't said in one word where he's going to take it. Although I do not object, far from this — you will not understand. He did not say where he was going to take it — would it go at the expense of his country’s debt or would it go in any other way? But would I challenge the Minister because he said at the outset that this would be a systemic change to be arranged at a broader level – when will this be, a time-table? Is this gonna be this year? Well, it's so hard this year. Next year? Will it be next year? When will this timeline be, and if possible, these two proposals, which are covered here today by New Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u104	Thank you very much. The next one has the word Dr. Darius Kryczych. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the floor. You see, Mr Tonin, however, one of your Members mentioned Milton Friedman in a story and at the same time the other reflected. Now it's clear that Milton Friedman is not your option, and I must say, I'm very happy because when we mention that name, it's stressful. If we don't ever hear it in these meatballs again, I'll be very pleased. In order for me to get support for this change of law, I would like it to be at least partially more complex, not just as partial as it is now. It's a little more complicated than that. Where'd the source come from? If you say where it comes from, but this new source, by how many percent, the catchment rate should be increased, or how that part of the taxpayer who pays less today will pay more, this proposal will be closer to a solution that, as far as I am concerned, could receive more sympathy and more support. If you have these calculations, maybe on schedule, and we'll come with them, we'll talk more easily. You said we were talking about the principles of the first hearing. Here. We're also talking about principles today. Nobody goes into some kind of technique, not into individual articles, but we're talking about principles. And at this principled level, but as far as I'm concerned, the law is not suitable for further consideration, because it is not complex because it is extremely practical. We just can't agree to such a solution because it doesn't provide resources. It's a key story. It does not provide other elements of this complexity. Perhaps for the future, it is now, as it is, for the future, if you want to get my voice, which I firmly believe, let us make the laws a little more complex, not just in terms of giving, but let us give, but also how we will pay for this drink. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the following word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Today we have heard many things that we have heard more or less. I predicted it at the beginning, I was hoping I'd be wrong, but I'm not, because we're listening to the same things. But I didn't get any answers to the following questions. Indeed, we are talking mainly about why we should burden only some employers, but not all of them. What matters to me, and what my colleague Horvath said, of course, when he said it was a small group. No, I said it was a certain group that we favor within the Labour Relations Act. That's what I'm talking about. So don't talk about a small group. You have very cleverly turned your words around to make it sound very bad, but after that you are well-known. You're very fond of doing this. The second question I didn't get an answer to is where we're going to get the $70 million cash difference from the health department. I have not heard this answer or this can only be done in such a way as to increase the rate of contribution or to reduce certain services in the health department from basic health insurance. I'd like to know who's up for it. Not me. I'm not even about to make a contribution, because then you'll go crazy again, and we'll raise our contributions and burden people and employers - we haven't done anything. And secondly, I am not in favour of reducing health care on the basis of personal health insurance — basic, I apologize. And the third thing is, nothing is said about what the employer should really do, and he should be more concerned about what he will do, so that he will not only favor the goal and profit and the work, but that in fact he will always have a healthy worker in the workplace. Thus, we are talking about prevention and quality of work in the workplace. You know well that a lot of people work during their working hours, they don't get paid for it and then, of course, there's fatigue and then there's an increase in abstention and so on. Not all of them! Just don't talk to me on two three cases, and then you'll give it to me very much under the denominator. What is important to me is this – I agree with my colleague Tonin when he says that neoliberalism is profanity in the Slovenian space. I can trust him not to be a neoliberal, but – then what are you? I don't know what you are then. Christian for sure. We also know from the client's address. But you only talk about the liberal program, but everything else is non-liberal – or how? This is unusual for me because I declare myself a liberal and have problems when someone who is not a liberal talks to me about liberalism and explains to me what neoliberalism is and so on. I will argue for myself that what you do with your particular moves Of course I can't support everyone as a liberal, but I agree with a lot of things, but not that and not that way. [[…]] The last thing, you know, is too frizzy – this is what they like to do in Novi Slovenija: «Put us through at least the first reading. Let us talk in a second reading, where all the stakeholders will be gathered together and we will talk. “ Do you know what happens next? [[...]] “Look, now we have come to another reading and now you will trample and destroy.” I only fell for this one time, you know. No, no! Such discussions should be concluded immediately at the outset. At least I'm fair and I'll tell you honestly, no bluffing. They need to be completed and said in the beginning — not you, the government! He has an apparatus, he has a policy, and I don't agree to the thesis that you keep telling your colleague Matthew: "In the elections you promised politics and so on, we won't share!" But this isn't about sharing, this is about different policies, which you don't want to hear because you only hear your politics and here you have a problem. And that's not a swear word, if we're different in politics, it's not a division! But when you come up with a proposal where you're correcting a smaller thing that goes through a shorter procedure or because of me you can do it in three stages. We have proven many things to you, even in the previous term, and we have allowed you laws, so that you do not Mr Horvat say that never, ever and so on, because that is not true again, what you are saying. Let's let go and we'll talk and we'll agree and we'll let you have a lot of amendments. We also sent you an amendment that made the whole marriage fall — you know what I'm talking about. Well, it's not as black as you imagine. However, I trust the government that it will make a proposal, but it will be very difficult, of course, because these things are not as easy to coordinate as you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the next word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Once again, dear colleague Jani Möderndorfer, I would expect a little more content from you, not what we are, but why we are. If you are interested, once again – for hundreds of years – I will tell you: we are not left or right, we are Christian Democrats. It would be difficult for you to say any definition because I don't know exactly what Positive Slovenia was, what was then Alenka Bratušek's Party or how – an alliance, now SMC, I understand this a little bit more, but look, let's stop here. Let's talk about content, dear fellow! When I talked about economic freedom, this analysis for the countries of the world is 162; in 162th place Venezuela, Slovenia at 71st report 2018. We didn't do it. Would you allow us, colleagues and colleagues, to discuss this in order to discuss it? On the committee, I commended Slovenia on the competitiveness scale of the Swiss Institute for Management Development, and I also said that I am not satisfied with 38th place among 62 countries and that I am not satisfied that Slovenia is 71st place after economic freedom among 162 measured people. You may be — all of us are free and let me express it that I am not free. Why am I not free the most? If I look at just five criteria of why we are and where we are the worst in terms of economic freedom; on the scale of the state or parastat we are in 146th place from 162. What does that mean, there's too much country? Each thing the state wants to regulate, so we say the state wants to collect taxes to then divide them through political lines; from subsidies and so on. That we are relatively good under the legal system and property rights in 38th place, relatively good and that we are even better at the strength of the currency – thank God we have the European currency! Isn't it true now that some candidate for governor says the euro is dead? Let's leave it at that. It's not dark. And that then we're a little bit worse off after the freedom of international trade, we're in 45th place. Rules, we're in 99th place, and that hurts me first - the size of the country, 146th place. That hurts. Where is the source — I conclude — where is the source? The source is in a better business environment. When will there be more businesses? When will entrepreneurs become more employed? When the business environment is better when they're willing to work. Now they don't hope because we have a tight, rigid working arrangement. That's the problem. In this place, however, thank you to all those who have come to talk about these laws in the great salon, on the one hand, we, the proposer, and you, the coalition. I am truly grateful, on behalf of the Member of Parliament, that you have listened to us. I understand you didn't have to give up your views at the time because you were waiting for the government's position. That's completely understandable. Social dialogue. Yes, I hope that this social dialogue will also be at the minimum wage, and then I will also support the minimum wage law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u110	Thank you very much. As the last one, Mr. Mag has the word. Matthew Tonin. Here you go. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, there's no time-sharing replica. Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u111	When I hear the words, "we left you," it almost freezes me. Who? We have some sort of central committee ordering MPs to let what go and who doesn't? Members of Parliament are independent and independent in their decisions and so far, according to our constitution, the legislative branch of power is independent, can have its own legislative initiatives and can vote in accordance with our conscience. That's what the constitution says. So, Ambassador Möderndorfer, when you tell me to, we let you go. No, no, no. The majority of Members have decided to do so. Then it's about the procedure. Czech Republic, Nova Slovenija comes with a proposal and what else. Before the formal procedure in this house began, we asked coalition members of the coalition to present these laws to them in order to start some kind of coordination, dialogue, debate that the old one could be accepted to the final objective. Do you know what happened? At this informal meeting, the coalition Members came unprepared, our Members saw that they were talking about things that had nothing to do with our laws and that no one had prepared for these serious initiatives. As Ambassador Horvat said, they were determined in advance to wait for the government's opinion. You could tell us in the face and not waste your time on unnecessary things. But believe me, the time will come when you will need our votes. Today we may need yours to adopt these laws, and surely the time will come when you will need ours. Then you'll remember that it's not a system law, that it's too complex. Ambassador Krajčič, what should be more complex? What? It's a simple matter: hospital 15 days or 30 days. How can we make this more complicated? If you have a problem with 30 days, tell me, 20, 15, I don't know. But I don't know how this thing would do more clearly, more systematically than it is. The following case, reimbursement of treatment costs or regression claims. Ambassador Krajčič, I don't know how to make things more complicated here either, because things are clear. Whether you are in favour of restricting and prescribing, in any way or not, the decision here is binary; whether you are in favour or not, if you are not in favour, then of course you can tell what line you are proposing elsewhere. Where'd the money come from? €317 million is spent on hospitals in Slovenia. 317 million euros. That's a lot of money. On several occasions, I give my Menicus operation, which cost this health treasury €700. I've been waiting two years for this operation. If I had a job because I couldn't do it, I'd probably go for two years or less to a hospital. Do you have any idea how much this medical bills would cost this hospital? A lot more than 700 euros! If you had already been treated, here you have €700, a public health treasury that €700 for your treatment of meniscus, go alone wherever you want, this money could be cheaper for this country, for this health system and certainly not pay €317 million for hospitals. Here we see in particular a source from which we could use a smart approach to reduce it. Ambassador Möderndorfer said, yes, you only have that for some narrow groups. Yeah, no, we got it all! And that was also the main observation of the Levitical Group, that it was for all the employees, that it was not just for the espouses. It's true, it's for everyone. It's not just the espionage. Thank God we've worked out the thing that we are, yes, we're Christian Democrats in the middle, between liberals on the one hand and socialists on the other. If the socialists say that everything in the country will be taken care of, and the liberals will be the invisible end of the market, then we are in the middle. This is the European model for Christian democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u112	Thank you very much. This concludes the general debate on the proposals for laws. On the proposal for conclusions that the draft laws are suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday 27 November in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. PERIOD OF THE DAY — FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LEGISLATION AND DISARMAMENT LAW. The draft law was tabled by a group of seven Members and Members with first-signed Joseph Horvat. With regard to this bill, the group of 11 Members and Members with the first Magi signed is a group of 11 Members. Matthew Tonin demanded that the National Assembly hold a general discussion. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! Amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act offer proposals for four key solutions. The two will significantly improve the business environment and provide more jobs, while the other two will correct some of the injustices caused by the adoption of PIZ-2. The first solution makes it possible to double the status of retired independent entrepreneurs. This means that at the same time they are pensioners and independent entrepreneurs. In addition, it limits the reimbursement to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance due to the consequences of accidents at work on gross negligence. The third solution recognises voluntary contributions to pension and disability insurance for the non-compensation period also for those who have voluntarily paid these contributions after 31 December 2012. Finally, the fourth solution eliminates the injustices of working persons with disabilities, equalizes the situation of employed and unemployed persons with disabilities on 31 December 2012 and introduces a new regime to take account of the period obtained by voluntary inclusion in and after the pension disability insurance on and after 31 December 2012. It is proposed that this period be taken into account as retirement periods without totality. If I touch double status first. Colleagues and colleagues, today we have many citizens who meet the conditions for retirement and could already receive a full old-age pension, but for various reasons they want to continue working. They want the activity they have been carrying out so far to be carried out in the future, or there are any other reasons why they want to open up S.P. and provide other services. The current Slovenian legislation provides that pensioners must decide whether to give up their pension in order to continue their activities. We think that in this way, without necessity, we restrict citizens and, therefore, with our proposal for amendments, we allow citizens to receive a full, 100 % old pension and at the same time open or continue on p.p. and, of course, pay full contributions for full-time work. The second point that we are amending in this law is the limitation of reimbursements that the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance may require from the employer due to the consequences of accidents at work. Where an employer causes an accident, an accident, on purpose, I stress, on purpose, it must fully absorb the costs of all the pensions and treatments in its entirety. However, if these accidents are due to unfortunate circumstances, we place a 20-fold limit on the minimum pension base, both for legal and natural persons, which means nominally around €15 000. The third solution eliminates the injustice to voluntary payers in pension and disability insurance after 31 December 2012. The most recently adopted novels allowed for the consideration of the contributions paid for the pension period without totalling only up to 31. 12. 2017. We had a broad agreement on this solution just before the resignation of President of the Government this spring, and unfortunately the proposal was closed. We have reached a political agreement on the fourth solution, but unfortunately for the same reason it has not been addressed. With the support of this law, we will take a major step forward towards improving the business environment and more jobs and eliminating the injustices of voluntary payers and employees with disabilities. That is why I invite you, dear colleagues, to support this change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Proposer. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Tiln Bozic, to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for an introductory presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u115	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Members and Members, welcome again! Let me begin by saying that the position of the Government is drawn up in such a way that it is ultimately written that it does not support this proposal. But then I'll explain why. At the same time, I would also like to point out that certain changes will be made in certain areas, which are also addressed by this bill in the coming year. I am thinking mainly of dual status here, and I believe that today we can also make very effective use of time to discuss this issue, which is relatively complex. I believe it makes sense for the government to also imagine why it makes sense to wait so long to talk about it a little bit better. With regard to the appropriateness of the regulation of the so-called dual pensioner status, it will be necessary to re-examine and, of course, upgrade that we come to this systemic, deliberate, broad consensus solution in cooperation with the social partners, as this proposed solution provides that dual status applies to only one category of insured persons, while some even take what is now available, this is the possibility of drawing a 20% pension when included in full-time insurance when they meet those conditions. The proposed solution thus creates an inequality between the debtors for which there is no justified reason. In line with the coalition agreement, however, the government is preparing its proposal for a law. Changes in employers' liability for damage caused to the institution are also referred to here as the Pension Insurance Office, because the employer has failed to implement safety and health measures at work, the Government cannot support. The proposed regulation opposes both the objectives of safety and health at work and the further development of this area. Nor is it in line with the objective of increasing the actual retirement age pursued by the current pension reform, as investing in the safety and health of employees is crucial. However, at this point, I would like to reiterate that employers do not in any case respond in an unlimited and disproportionate way, since in all cases it is necessary to establish and enforce liability for damages, all assumptions of compensation, including, of course, illegality and the causal link between harmful behaviour and injury. More about these cases later. The decision on the amount of compensation shall also take into account shared liability, which means that the employer is not fully responsible for the occurrence of disability, in so far as the worker is also responsible for the occurrence of disability. As regards the regulation of the transitional provisions of the draft law, we also consider that it is not appropriate, as it unwarrantedly recognises different, such as the quality of the pension period depending on the unemployment status, the date of inclusion in the insurance and the amount of the contributions. Pension insurance does not cover the insurance risk of unemployment but rather the insurance risk of age; hence, the fact that an individual will no longer be able to provide for himself by working or carrying out an activity to supplement a certain age of income. All individuals are included in voluntary insurance on the same basis and, therefore, in accordance with the principle of equal treatment, it is appropriate to provide such individuals with the same rights. Finally, I explain that the change in the protected category of disabled persons after six years of application of the new law, when individuals retire only on the basis of new provisions, is not appropriate. On the basis of that Government, the draft law, as mentioned at the outset, does not support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mrs Janja Slug has the word on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u117	The new Pension and Disability Insurance Act has already been introduced by the applicants with the same or similar content in the parliamentary procedure during the entire previous term, and it is not clear that there are any changes in their legitimate work in view of the new reference to the National Assembly. The last of these papers was discussed at the end of the mandate at the 37th regular meeting. At this meeting, it was decided that the bill was suitable for further consideration, but compared to the amendment we have on the tables today, it did not contain a solution to eliminate the distinction between the conditions for retirement between workers and unemployed workers. This novel was also confirmed in the first reading by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, but with a clear message that the proposed changes regarding dual status and regressive claims do not seem appropriate. We're doing it again today. Despite the well-intention of the applicants, we cannot support proposals which oppose the rules of employers' compensation, the rules of protection and health at work and the obligations imposed on employers by labour law. These are the facts that we have repeatedly pointed out to proposers. With regard to dual status, we add that only two open articles of the pension law cannot be resolved. It cannot be resolved in such a way that the arrangement is fair and equal for all categories of insurers who are in the same or comparable position. It is more useful to look for comprehensive solutions that will be mutually coordinated and thus workable in practice. Today's proposal does not allow and in places even opposes the system regime of compulsory pension and disability insurance. At the same time, of course, we stress once again that the issue of dual status is still under review at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We hope that this decision will take place as soon as possible, so that the National Assembly and the legislator will also have certain guidelines on how to proceed in resolving this issue. The solution related to the completion of the pension period seemed worth further consideration in the Group of the Modern Centre Party in the previous term. In particular, due to the fact that all the injustices related to the solutions adopted in 2012 with the new pension reform have not yet been resolved. Nevertheless, we cannot completely ignore the Government's arguments on the concrete solution proposed in today's novelty. An arrangement whereby we can distinguish the way in which the PPIZ-2 period is acquired, depending on when individuals have become involved in insurance and not on the payment of contributions or actual work, can be problematic and, of course, cannot be overlooked. The solution to the change in the protected category of persons with disabilities also does not appear to be sufficiently thoughtful and ployed. It is true that the last amendment of the proposal was assessed in the previous term as appropriate for further consideration, but unfortunately, in the later stages of the legislative process, an important step forward towards overcoming the shortcomings of the proposed solutions has not been taken. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we do not see today the possibility of sufficient progress in order to come up with coordinated solutions in the future. We are therefore assessing today that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration, and we will not support it either.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The next is the Group of Ambassadors, Left, on her behalf Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! The repeatedly rejected amendment proposed in Nova Slovenije brings again solutions that we do not support in Levica. It is also a reduction in employers' liability for injuries at work and for the payment of full pensions to those insured who perform post-retirement work through the status of independent entrepreneurs. What brings the first step is to reduce safety at work and also reduce the liability of business owners; dual status brings nothing but the law of social dumping and unfair competition. Such a solution means transforming the current existing pension system, which we need to see as solidarity between society and the people who have worked their way into some kind of pension system. Let me stop at the proposal to introduce a dual status. Applicants shall introduce the possibility that an independent entrepreneur eligible for a retirement pension may begin to receive a full pension, even though he is carrying out an activity to the extent that corresponds to full-time employment. Following the current regulation adopted by the government in the previous term, espies and employees who have reached the conditions for retirement have the right to pay 20% of their pension if they do so. A rise of this 20 per cent, which means a certain maintenance of work in one case, but unfortunately in more and more cases, in addition to low pensions, it is unacceptable for Levica to pay 100 per cent, because it means turning this solidarity pension system into a pension. What is the basic purpose of the pension? The pension is intended for those working people who are no longer able to spend their wages. The law assumes that this moment will occur at the age of 60 if the worker worked for 40 years and in other cases later. However, if the worker has the opportunity and the desire to work and is able to work, he does not need to retire. Simple. If a worker retires in part, he is entitled to a partial pension; if he retires in full, he may also be a procurator of his company or something like that. However, if he wants to work as a full-time self-employed person, that is commendable, but there is no reason to pay his pension. The pension in our system is not a pension for past savings. The Pension and Disability Insurance Office is not a commercial insurance company that would invest in shares and then pay the rent. Employees and self-employed are not savers who voluntarily pay the premiums. With us and in all modern countries, we have a so-called flow system in which current contributions are spent on current pensions. Since current contributions are not sufficient to pay pensions, the difference must be provided by the State from the budget. It's called intergenerational solidarity. Every form of income is contrary to this system of solidarity, with these principles and, of course, undermines it. Renting undermines the solidarity system in two ways. The costs of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance would increase more than revenues following this proposal proposed by Nova Slovenije. Already, every year, more people receive 20% of their pension; last year, the costs were €7 million. If they were entitled to the full amount, the expenditure of the institution would increase to some EUR 30 million and the latter is already in deficit, so that it should cover the budget. While we are being convinced that it is better for a retired person to stay in the labour market and continue to pay contributions, they forget that the total number of jobs is crucial. When someone who has espé retires or otherwise ceases to do this work, they are usually replaced by someone else on the market. This other may be a family member or a different espé, but its market share may be taken over by an undertaking that employs a new worker. Decommissioning from closed espionage shall be replaced by contributions from other espies or employees in companies taking over their market share. If it were not for this replacement, then the number of espions would be decreasing and in reality it is steadily increasing. According to the Statistics Office of the Republic of Slovenia, almost 95,000 independent entrepreneurs were registered in 2016, which is exactly 2 thousand 583 more than a year earlier. Therefore, by paying pensions to people who continue to carry out activities, the income of the institution will not increase enough but start to decrease; at the same time, the artificial extension of the working age of self-employed people would block the employment of younger generations, which should be in our primary interest. Another problem I have already mentioned is unfair competition or social dumping. A craftsman, a lawyer, a journalist and so on, who would receive a full pension, could afford a lower price than any other self - employed person who does not receive a pension. From the point of view of other business operators, this is called unfair competition because some of the bidders have an unjustified advantage. From the point of view of self-employed people whose income is derived from single income activities, this is social dumping because they are forced to work for a payment that does not provide them with a minimum social standard. As the number of forced espions and also outsourcing is increasing, espionage revenues are also increasingly pressing on the salaries and rights of regular employees, thus completing the social dumping cycle. The following criticism takes place on a proposal to reduce employers' liability for injuries at work. Since Nova Slovenija last proposed this measure, data from the work inspectorate for 2017 have been published and we can read in the report of the Labour Inspectorate: »Like 2016 and some previous years also for 2017 at the Labour Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, we estimate that the safety and health situation at work in Slovenia has not improved to such an extent that they can be regarded as encouraging, although the economic situation is improving. Many employers still do not realize how important it is to have this area well regulated." And so on. “We still note that most employers do not realize that they are responsible in the field of safety and health at work and rely too much on external professionals who perform tasks in this area in most of them.” These are the findings of a work inspection; such as a failure to send checks, a lack of first aid in the workplace, as well as failure to provide or provide inadequate protective equipment for its employees. The number of accidents is still too high. The Labour Inspectorate says that the safety situation at work is still inadequate and that this is also due to lack of awareness or concern by employers. New Slovenia has made these facts strange or, we can say, the wrong conclusion. This is the fact that employers' liability for accidents at work needs to be limited and partly eliminated. In Levica, we have drawn the very opposite conclusion from the same facts, namely that employers must be forced by new measures to respect health and safety measures at work, which also calls for possible solutions by the Labour Inspectorate. Therefore, we have already proposed several increases in resources and also new employment at the Inspectorate, which will obviously even be realized by this year's law on the implementation of budgets. According to IPES, more than 200,000 legal entities were registered in Slovenia at the end of last year. At the inspectorate, only 32 inspectors are employed in the field of health and safety at work. This means that 6 thousand 400 and several business entities, or more than 25,000 workers, fall on one inspector. Therefore, it is not possible to exercise thorough control and it is not surprising that safety at work is not increasing and that the illegal exploitation of workers is spreading. From the Labour Inspectorate reports, we can also understand the structure of employers in whom the most fatal accidents have occurred. These data show that safety is most threatened in small businesses, namely in the category of companies that are to be protected by limiting compensation liability on a proposal from New Slovenia. Safety at work is still a pressing problem, and in particular it is a problem in the smallest companies. For a long time, applicants have argued that the proposal does not change safety standards. It is true, it does not change standards; it reduces the pressure for employers to respect these standards and ultimately enforce them in practice. Why do you think different ipees in Cyprus or cleaning services throughout the country operating on suspicious principles are taking precautions?Oh, my God! Certainly not because of kindness or concern for their employees, but mainly because they fear punishment and damages. And if you limit the damages, you reduce this compulsion and we'll have more damage at work. One of the former Members of New Slovenia said openly in the previous term at the meeting what the problem was. I quote: “We have a type of work where you simply cannot be competitive if you take all security measures into account.” But here I add that such companies, which neglect safety due to competitiveness and profit, should simply not operate. However, NSI proposes that the entire system be adapted precisely to those firms that are fundamentally at risk of security. Excuse me, this is another legalized dumping, a security dumping that we can only oppose. The National Assembly should not play with the health and life of workers, so we expect the Chamber of Commerce, its parliamentary representatives, to stop such provocations and the coalition to reject such attempts consistently. At the same time, the law has one solution that we support in Levica. At the time of the adoption of the last novel ZPIZ, we have proposed and warned people who have entered into compulsory insurance under the old law and have continuously paid social benefits, even after the introduction of the new law during the pension period, including the period of inclusion in insurance after 31. 12. 2012. In doing so, we relied mainly on the social sense of the Members of that time. The measure would also benefit those who paid their contributions voluntarily. In most cases, it was for recreational workers who lived solely with fees, or for long - term unemployed people who lived through the incomes of their family members. Despite severe social distress, both contributed to the payment of pensions, and the political class deprived them of the essential element of the right by means of the so-called Visionary Act, for which they were included. Nevertheless, another important emphasis must be added, which focuses mainly on dual status. In Levi, we understand the reality that has been depicted in the last 27 years of the missed transition and the rise of capitalism; that despite the fact that people go to peace, they are forced to work if they simply want to survive. We are aware of the terrible situation in which a large part of the pensioners live. We are aware that their benefits are sometimes far from reaching the level that would be sufficient for at least the minimum cost of living — for rents, for heating during the winter, for maintenance work in extended houses. By adopting such a law, we would do nothing but prolong this slow violation of our pension system. What pensioners need right now is simply higher pensions. The kind that will enable them to survive, not the fact that after 40 years of work they must continue to work only to survive within a month. Rather, let us pursue such goals.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u121	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! The objective of each policy and country must be a good economy, because only a well-functioning economy creates the conditions for all necessary state budgets to be adequately filled so that the country can also provide adequate social services to all who need it. Money doesn't fall from the sky. Money needs to be created and it is therefore crucial that the economy has the right conditions, because only in this way will there be enough money for health care, for other social transfers, especially for pensions and pension systems, which we are also dealing with today. We've put a law into the procedure that brings four solutions. All these four solutions are also the fruit of our field visits and numerous exhibitions and problems of different citizens. Certainly something was overlooked when the pension reform was adopted in 2012. Thank God now that things have been overlooked, which have emerged as problems, we are also putting an end to them. And one of the things we bring about in this law is that it is certain that all voluntary payers after 31 December 2012 will get rid of the injustice. In the past term, this house has already abolished the injustice for all those who have done so by that date until 31. 12. 2012. This law now wrongs all others who have done so even after that date. It brings another solution to the injustice of all working persons with disabilities involved in this voluntary payment. And it brings two very important things. With regard to the first regression claim relating to the previous law that we have dealt with. You may find this ridiculous, even the Levis seem strange, because they feel that money can be milked forever and everywhere; but if you are milking too much, the cow can also die. And many entrepreneurs warn us that the business environment is currently such that in the event of an accident, which unfortunately has resulted in the disability pension, the payment of this disability pension falls entirely on the employer. They wonder who in this country will be willing to take on the responsibility that this will always hang over his head, that in the event of some injury to this employee he will spend his whole life paying a disability pension. It is not a problem that craftsmen and entrepreneurs are punished for their mistakes, and that is why the law leaves a certain amount to be paid; but in view of the fact that our people will even hope to be entrepreneurs and craftsmen in the future and to work in this environment, it is essential to create a predictable environment because they need it. And now we get a double pensioner status, because I think it's interesting how some of the left-wing parties explain that we are now taking 20% of the pensioner's pension. That's true, but they get 100% instead. I find it very interesting how they formulate things. So if you let someone get a 100% pension instead of 20%, they say you take 20%, and of course they forget to tell them they get 100%. What am I talking about? In New Slovenia, it seems important to us that if someone has worked and paid in this system for 40 years and also deserves a pension, then it is right to get this pension in full; and not 20%, as in the current solutions, if he continues to work. He's earned his pension, and he's right to get it all. Our marriage solution does not mean that employees in the public sector, perhaps professors and others, especially those who do not want to retire, will receive a pension and continue to work and receive a salary after all the conditions are met. No, we're not talking about these. We speak exclusively of those who work with their own hands, who have created their own businesses, about the so-called espouses. Those who have worked their whole life have earned a pension. And if they take the pension now, if they keep working, they only get 20% of that pension. The nature of espionage is that some jobs are tied to these espies. There could be five, 10 people working for a singer. If this espa closes, where do these jobs go? They may not exist either, and some well-run activity may be closed. Do these things have to be passed on to their relatives, acquaintances, friends? Statistics have shown that after this solution was implemented, budget revenues were lower, because no one wanted to throw away 80% of the pension, but rather took a hundred percent pension, formally copied the activity to someone else, and everything else worked further than before. But every month the country lost the contributions and benefits it would pay if it were in a regular working relationship. Our point is simple. Someone who has worked for 40 years, who has fulfilled the conditions for retirement, can retire and get a hundred percent pension; if he wants to work forward, he can do so, but can't be in any better position, he has to pay all the same contributions as everyone else on the market. Seems fair, fair, and for some Western world, there is also a normal solution. And these are the solutions we're proposing. Many of you are showing us perseverance. We're persistent, we certainly acknowledge that. We are persistent because people warn us day after day that it is a problem that they find it unacceptable that after 40 years they cannot reach their full pension. That the state prevents them from working and continuing to pay into the pension and health treasury. That's the problem. Because of this problem, yes, this case is also in the Constitutional Court. If it wasn't a problem, I probably wouldn't be there. And we're back to where the dialogue between the opposition and the coalition is now. Where's that new policy you've been defending and talking about? Where? We have introduced this law in good faith, tried to open a dialogue, some discussion with the coalition; and more than a formal meeting, where the coalition Members have shown great disinterest in our laws, has not happened. This is not the dialogue we imagine it to be. This is not the way of cooperation between the opposition and the coalition, as we imagine. Surely, it would be a suitable way for the coalition to work hard and look together for the smallest common denominator. In the past mandate, at least two of the four solutions that we are proposing have found a common denominator and the law has already seen the light of the world at first reading; unfortunately, then we are ahead of the elections and before the resignation of the Prime Minister. Nothing has changed since then, and I am surprised that this relationship has changed in some coalition groups. It is difficult to understand that all the professional assistance provided by government services is not prepared to sit down with one opposition party and discuss with them where appropriate solutions can be found for the law to see the light of the world. If it is not acceptable for you first, second option, okay; but why not eliminate the injustices that occur to voluntary payers and disabled workers. Why don't we do it if we can?Oh, my God! It is difficult to understand this approach, your dialogue, when a person offers you a hand, you reject it and you find it incredibly unusual reasons. Perhaps someone who does not know the procedures in Parliament would still fall for this. However, those who know the procedures in Parliament know that the old policy through this coalition is returning to this house at a large door, which is sad and which is not good for the future. But lies hurt, and this is where Levitsa certainly precedes that the leader of the Left Group says that the former NSI Member said something about how you can't respect everything because otherwise you can't be competitive. Anyone who has at least five minutes of time, who knows Google basically, can verify that the former Members of New Slovenia are not. Since 2011, when we returned to Parliament, all Members of the New Slovenia Group have been re-elected in all elections until now. Turmin’s former New Slovenia Member does not exist, but Levica can quietly afford these things for this speaker and no one. And you have chosen such a partner as your coalition partner. I wish you good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u123	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Ministry, secretary, colleagues and colleagues! At the outset of the opinion of the Desus Group on the proposal for a new Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, submitted by the New Slovenia Group, I should like to point out that the previous composition of Members and Members has already carried out a good number of hours of discussions on this topic. The proposer of this law for the fifth time, more or less with the same content, shows that he is not prepared to have a dialogue with the social partners, nor is he willing to listen to the profession. That is why I propose that next time we try to go the other way. Such an important law must, in our opinion, be the fruit of a consensus at least among the stakeholders of the Economic and Social Council, unless a broader social consensus is sought. All of this is missing here, and that is why the Members of the Desus Act will not be supported this time either. If I continue with further substantive arguments, however, our opinion on the individual solutions offered by this law is as follows: dual status, which means the use of pensions at the end of the working period, activities, according to the Desus Group, is only properly regulated so that all pensioners have equal opportunities, regardless of where they come from, from espionage, businesses, state administrations and so on. According to the proposal of New Slovenia, we would not have them. Under the current regime, all categories of insured persons or pensioners are now equal under the scope and rights. Thus, everyone, I stress, not only entrepreneurs, but also workers from the labour force and other insurers, has the opportunity to remain fully active even after retirement and at the same time receive 20% of the pension. All pensioners receive equal treatment even if they are now retired or if they are reactivated after retirement. However, what New Slovenia is trying to implement is unfair, as they propose the possibility of using a full pension only to those insured or pensioners who carry out a self-employed activity. Any other option and the combination of full insurance from other insurance, insurance and pension benefits is not possible. If the worker wants to work further after the conditions for retirement are met, he will be able to do so, but he will not receive 20% of the pension. While the entrepreneur may receive a full pension in addition to the full salary when fully carrying out his or her activities and income. In order for Nova Slovenije to please one group that gives them priority, she is willing to forget the interests of others, and this is not acceptable for the Desus Group. We are also convinced that this proposal would also be opposed by the Constitutional Court, which must ensure equal treatment of all citizens and citizens. The proposed amendments would therefore, according to our assessment, introduce a more favourable treatment of only one category of insurers while at the same time taking the rights of all other insurers. In this we do not see fairer and more uniform arrangements, which is what the proposer also wants to achieve. As regards the regression claims of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, we have also expressed the view in our previous opinions that the proposal is unacceptable in this part too, as it puts too much emphasis on one side, which is unfortunately also poor employers and which are in relation to the worker as well as a stronger customer. The New Slovenia proposal is put forward in defence of economic interests, which is why Members and Members of Desus, who are a social party, cannot be supported. We are also critical of the proposal to reduce liability and the amount of compensation, as such a proposal destroys the preventive role of the system of safety and health at work. The essence of preventing injury to employees is that it is by threatening to pay compensation against possible infringements of the rules on safety and health at work. In this part, the proposal is contrary to the logic of the compensation legal relationship, which has always been based on general principles in such a way as to require greater care for those who are active and are employers than for lay persons or individuals. However, the last argument against the proposed regulation is that there would be a shortfall of funds resulting from the proposed amendment, as the proposed amendment did not propose a new source of funds to cover the shortfall in pension funds. The costs to be borne by the employer should therefore be borne in solidarity, which means that the difference or the mania in the pension allowance should be covered by all the insured persons and the state budget, perhaps also by increasing contributions, which is certainly not acceptable for employers. With regard to the third point of content of this proposal. The latter refers to a change in the number of uncollected pension periods, i.e. the period to which the right to a full old pension is to be fulfilled for those who pay voluntary contributions after the date of implementation of the pension reform. In this regard, when we read a constitutional decision on this subject, the issues of unequal treatment are raised between those who have actually worked out the pension period; and those who have not, irrespective of the fact that the latter have also invested in this purpose. The essence of the 2012 reform, which was also the co-founder of this novel, was that 40 years of work was enough for a full retirement age. This was also the case with the Constitutional Court, since the judges stated that, by distinguishing between the recognition of rights and the determination of a more favourable retirement for those who actually worked, it was sufficient for the basic principle of compulsory insurance. This is the principle of the dependence of rights on paid contributions as pension and disability benefits are recognised on the basis of past work. The New Slovenia proposal also raises doubts in this part because their proposal would further create differences between those who have actually been unemployed all the time since 31 December 2012 and those who would otherwise have been unemployed, but have somehow managed to activate and lost their jobs. However, the financial implications of this point are not evaluated. It follows from this point of view that this time too, the Desus Group will not support the law or vote against the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u124	Thank you very much. The following will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party mag. Carmen Furman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u125	Thank you very much for the Chairman's word. Dear guests, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering the amendment to the current Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which was introduced into the legislative procedure by Nova Slovenije. The proposed amendments aim to regulate the double status of independent entrepreneurs, in a way that would enable retired craft and self-employed persons to receive full old-age pensions at the same time and to carry out full-time activities, to regulate regress claims or to compensate the institution in a direction that follows the principle of fairness and proportionality, and to correct the injustices that the implementation of the new pension legislation has brought to certain categories of vulnerable groups. It is true that all proposed legislative changes have been tabled several times in the legislative procedure and have been discussed in greater depth. That is why the government’s response to the National Assembly was so much more surprising at the end of October 2018. In its opinion on the proposed amendments to the law under consideration today, the Government stressed, inter alia, that the regulation of the double status of independent entrepreneurs and the compensation applications of the institution to employers are still under constitutional review and therefore suggests that further decisions on proposed legislative changes be pending the decision of the Constitutional Court. However, the Government has already referred to the relevant decision of the Constitutional Court, as part of its legislative hearing in March 2017, but it is also important that the requirement to assess the constitutionality of the provisions of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act 2 (SPIZ-2) concerning the double status of pensioners to the Constitutional Court was submitted already in February 2016. So you can really lose your words when you see this rate of trial and resolution of the cases of Slovenian courts and the failure of the rule of law to which the Government also refers, unfortunately even in cases where there are the most sensitive questions about the existence of individuals. The current arrangement allows pensioners to work on the basis of contractual relations while receiving pensions, but not further work, although such pensioner would continue to pay contributions to the pension fund. The latter causes inequality between citizens and citizens before the law, thus violating one of the fundamental principles of the Slovenian Constitution. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that the pension is a right that an individual acquires when fulfilling the legal conditions and on the basis of the contributions paid that he has paid to the pension fund for all years. Therefore, everyone has the right to a pension, regardless of the activity he is carrying out, when he fulfils the legal requirements. And if someone is an independent entrepreneur and wants to continue working after retirement to pay all his contributions, there is no reason to take away his pension, since he earned it fairly with his contributions and his past work. After all, such a solution can also contribute to job retention, as with the closure of businesses, employees also lose their jobs and income in the company. The proposed solution also means more resources to the state budget, i.e. more additional payments to the pension and disability allowance. In our client, we are also aware of the pressing problems of the current legal arrangements for regressive or compensation claims, both of them in relation to the employer. We strongly advocate that the employer must do everything in his power to ensure safety and health at work. However, the fact is that the current legislation allows a high regressive application by the institution to the employer to jeopardise the existence of a particular undertaking even if the employer has taken full and adequate care of the safety of the employee. Such legislation certainly does not follow the principle of fairness and proportionality and is highly questionable in terms of the urgency and ability to achieve the objective pursued, i.e. safe and healthy work. We stress, however, that the proposed regulation does not in any way advocate a reduction in safety standards at work, as some would now like to show, because in our party we support only solutions where the worker will continue to benefit from insurance compensation, while the limited amount of regressive claims would also take account of the economic strength and not just the damage caused status. And since we respect the principle of equality in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also want all the injustices that have occurred to voluntary payers in the pension and disability register to be regulated or rectified. After all, the country must be fair to all its citizens. With past laws, these rights have been settled for all those who have voluntarily paid up to 31 in the pension register. 12. 2012; it is therefore appropriate that the latter also apply to all those who have voluntarily paid in the pension fund after that date. In view of all of this, the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposed amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u126	Thank you very much. The following position will be presented by Ambassador Jerco Korča on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u127	Thank you so much for saying that. We are all aware of the need to regulate the situation of pensioners by introducing corrections to the current pension system. As soon as possible, however, there must also be consensus on the implementation of changes and the upgrading of the pension system, which will clearly be financially sustainable in the long term. Already in the coalition contract and when writing the coalition contract, all the current coalition partners talked about the need to enable pensioners to re-enter the labour force after meeting the age and pension conditions for the retirement pension. That's what we're still behind. However, these things need to be addressed logically, systematically and through the integration of an integrated system of different areas: social policy, long-term care, health reforms, tax and labour reforms. We want future generations of pensioners to be able to improve their social situation and to be able to provide them with as much resources as possible. The proposed amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act by Nova Slovenije is not the result of constructive social dialogue and is not the result of the agreement reached by the social partners. We wish that everything could be included in this comparable situation and that this change in the term would be fair. The proposed novel does not introduce a system-wide solution and would not be fair to everyone, because the pension would only allow those who carry out the activity, which means only a narrow circle of insurers. And this would also be controversial in terms of the constitutionality of the proposed solution, so we will not support the proposed solution in the Marjan Sarca Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u128	Thank you very much. He will be the last to present the position of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Dear fellows! Today we have before us a proposal to amend the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which has two main objectives. The first is the arrangement of the so-called dual status of retired craftsmen and independent entrepreneurs who would like to continue their activities after retirement. The second is a re-trial by the same applicant to limit the regressive claims that the health insurance company and the pension institution require employers who have caused the death, injury and disability of their workers due to negligence. These are two substantively different proposals, and we have discussed the second on various occasions on several occasions, last but not least at the previous point of today's agenda. Let me therefore focus on the issue of the regulation of the dual status of pensioners. The proposer seeks to regulate the situation of retired craftsmen and entrepreneurs who would also like to carry out activities after retirement, but also to receive the pension they have earned in years of work. A few amendments to the legislation have already been made, and we must all recognise that this area has not yet been satisfactorily regulated so that the continuation of business activities after retirement is possible and fully compatible with the receipt of a pension. For this reason, we believe that this part of the bill is going in the right direction and that it raises a number of issues that must be urgently agreed and coordinated before adoption, otherwise we risk making the regulation worse rather than improving it jointly. The current regime allows craftsmen and independent entrepreneurs to retire regularly while continuing their business activity while receiving a 20% pension. The applicants believe that they should be granted a full pension and that business activities would not prevent them. This should motivate them to become active even after retirement, allow them to receive a well-deserved pension, and may also maintain jobs for employees. Such moves can certainly be agreed and supported and supported by social democrats. We must note, however, that such solutions must necessarily take a broader view and create real incentives that will not motivate people to abuse. Most importantly, we are developing a system that will not force workers and entrepreneurs into early retirement or, on the other hand, stubborn persistence in the labour market. Remember, a few years ago, people were afraid of rising retirement age, and today many are striving to be able to work at retirement despite the fact that many of them are simply because their well - deserved pensions are not enough to live a decent life. In short, we need thoughtful and coordinated measures, smart solutions, not solutions to our minds, in designing solutions to retirement and promoting work. Therefore, before the adoption of this law, we should scrutinize and rewind all combinations and possible incentives, and then take a comprehensive solution. The adoption of solutions quickly only for certain target groups may have unpredictable and harmful consequences, even if they were not foreseen at the time of adoption. We therefore do not support the proposed amendments and the amendment of the law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u130	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. And first, I give the floor to the proposaler, Mr Joseph Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Thank you to all Members for your views, whatever they are. Thanks especially to those who will support in at least one part the solutions that are here, which I understand that we are moving forward, that this is the right direction; and that I then understand that we must go to another reading. I am somewhat disappointed that you have lost so many minutes — I did not count them — that you have dealt with what we have not done at all — how many times this solution has been proposed in the previous term. This is a waste of time and a waste of time in the National Assembly with such matters. This is why, in my humble opinion and understanding, we are looking for solutions. This marriage is not ideal. None of our laws are perfect! I'm sure no government is ideal. So then we drink it with amendments in the second, third reading and so on, to come up with some solution on the democratic path, that we, as representatives of the people, can then say: Most agree with this or only a minority opposes it. The constant question that there is no source in the law. I don't know which article they're supposed to write it in. I expect the government to solve this – because I think it will – to write some article then – and the source is there. We say, ladies and gentlemen, that a resource in a better business environment that will allow more jobs, more employment, more opportunities for the entrepreneurial spirit to develop in this country. Do you agree with me that the happiest Slovenian, Slovenian, is the one who has the opportunity to develop all of his intellectual, entrepreneurial and other potentials? And it will be better for us, the state treasury will be fuller – I firmly believe it – when all the individuals we want to work, who have ideas, businesses, whatever they already are, can develop you. That we will not be afraid to hire another employee, because the legislation is such that we will not be able to cancel it if it is bad. Are all the employees ideal in this country? They're not. Now that's not the topic. I also regret that, for example, in the Modern Centre Party, I expected there to be more affection. Indeed, this is now one another SMC, as it was during the previous term when the SMC was large. That's when, don't hold my breath, we sat down with Dr. Simono Kustec Lipicer, a member of the SMC, Dr. Miti Horvat, my trifle, our professional colleagues, and we actually came very close. That's why we were just before the second reading. But – I hope not because of this law – then Dr Cerar resigned. It's not a problem that he gave up. The problem is that the problems remained. The rest are the composition of Parliament. The former New Slovenia Member of the Left, however, does not say the name; our president has already disputed this. Tonin, that's why I'm not gonna lose my words here. As far as the Modern Centre Party is concerned, only what was said in the previous law by Jani Möderndorfer. The magnetogram remembers everything. He remembers everything. He attacked me that I was abusing his discussion. He actually said "one small group", he did not say "determined" as he might have intended to say. On the left hand side, I understand the message that it is forbidden to work in this country. Look where we are in Europe. True, the whole of Europe is getting old, the Slovenian society is the most. This is what the European Commission reports to us every semester. Lifetime is getting longer – thank God! Thanks to medicine, thanks to a healthier lifestyle and so on. Which means that the ageing society is at great fiscal risk. And in Europe, in the institutions of the European Union, we, too, have adopted some guidelines on how to be active for as long as possible. I'm talking about work activity. Sometimes someone asks me when you retire, how much longer you have to work. If it's all good luck, if my health serves me, I'll work till my death, not in Parliament, don't be afraid. I'll tell my colleague Jani Möderndorfer a little bit of a joke. We're gonna have to work till we die because you know what pensions are like. And because work strengthens a man, says First Reading, at least that's what mine said. The Desus Group, I'm afraid she didn't understand, because it was said that this is now a matter of some inequality, that only those who were espa have this right to be espoused and receive a hundred percent pension. No, even those who have retired may have been retired for three years, no matter where he worked, but now he has an idea, some business, if you want, and I want to work; and this pensioner, who has been a pensioner for three years, should open an espa. That's what the law says. But let him do, for God's sake, work, and pay all taxes. And we say, double status is for those who have reached all conditions for retirement. My understanding is that retirement is a right. That's the right we deserve if we've spent 40 years paying certain contributions. And if I'm doing some kind of activity, bullying, whatever, designing, and at some point I'm getting this right, which is called retirement, it's right that I'm 100% getting this pension, even though it's low, it's right to get it. And if I'm healthy and I have a product and I have a market, and I have employees, and I care about the existence of five families, why does the state forbid me to work?Oh, my God! Why? This is crazy, ladies and gentlemen, what we have now in this solution, which I will explain in more detail later; what we have now is crazy. I don't understand left, he's talking about the number of jobs being Slovenian constant, I don't understand it at all. And the statistics of the espouses and so on, why there are more. Why are there more espies? What's the rise? And that's worth the analysis. Business passion is growth. Once again, the one who is healthy, who has an idea that has a product that has a market – let it work, let it grow, let it work, let it get a hundred percent pension if it has met all the conditions. However, we also agree with the increased inspection of accidents at work. We don't have a problem with that. But you haven't read the law. 191. We add to this article, which refers to the employer's liability for damage to the institution. “The institution may require from the employer the amount of compensation at the maximum amount of 20 times the lowest pension base.” That's about 15 grand now. Come in. “If the damage is caused intentionally, the employer shall pay it back in full.” If you don't like this 20-folder, let's have it amended and write another multiple, by the democratic will of the majority. Yeah, we're all working on higher pensions. Hey, it's not gonna work. It won't work without a pension reform. The fact that we will now compete every year, once Brother’s, then Erjavec, then the third, and then the fifteenth, who will give more for the pensioners from the Treasury, is without a connection. This is what we did in the previous term; but we did count that the champion of Desus was working for it and he succeeded, he got 40 million a year. If you recalculate this, find that for each pensioner one or two drops of medium-quality ice cream per month. It's making a fool out of pensioners. We must, but not now for me, for us who are a little more in age; but for the young. For young people today we have to do – Mr Secretary of State, listen – a pension reform that will be a little different than this. Because what does this give us? I was also critical of the previous government or of the party which is a democratic party of pensioners because I came up with one interesting rule – the rules of the two nines. In nine years, from 2008 to 2017, the salary/retirement ratio decreased by 9 percentage points. 2008 was 67%, 2017 – 58%. Now the new, youngest pensioners tell me it's not 58, it's 57. So he goes down and no one does anything. We just watch, we age; nothing. Instead of introducing, and if you don't like our three-step system, then someone else needs to be invented that will be good for everyone. Interestingly, you are not in favour of some, at least some, to correct injustices. Colleague Furman was for that, including the Left, I think I heard it right. The LMŠ, which needs to be addressed in an integrated manner, needs to be addressed systematically through social rights, tax reform and so on, something else has been stated. Well, let's do it in one piece. This probably means that there's going to be 60 laws in the package, I'm talking about. Dialogue with social partners, yes. What's the procedure here now? Or before the first reading, or after the first reading, how do we fix this? I just don't know that. But there is something else I would like to say if I am with LMSH as the largest government party, because more attention needs to be paid. You all know, dear colleagues and colleagues, that at the time of the electoral campaign from various institutions, we received different questions from the media houses. One question was: What is your view of flexible forms of work? Answer LMŠ, I will not quote everything, only the last part: “The main reason for the deliberate introduction of labour market flexibility is the activation of all potentials in Slovenia.” Great. "Also labourable pensioners will be able to maintain economic development and the social state." Well done, but a lock for then, not for today. What's changed? Well, LMSH is the same. Yeah, they're in the government now. Mr Secretary of State, the White Paper, you know her zero because you are now the second man in the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. The White Paper on Pensions, April 2016, page 95, so that you will not be listed for long: In the context of dual status, a solution could be put in place for pension recipients to continue to receive incomes that would not affect the termination of the payment or the reduction of the pension, but that pensioners would be obliged to pay all the corresponding social security contributions. Yeah, of course, that's what our marriage says. They have to pay for everything. Of course. And also a proposal for action: To regulate the dual status of pensioners in a way to enable them to carry out their post-retirement work and to receive a full pension when they complete their full retirement age and on condition that they pay full contributions. Three times full. And now you've been shooting at nothing when you said it wasn't good. Now just tell me, Secretary of State, whether the White Paper still works, whether you paid someone to write it; it's probably not for free, and now you've thrown that money and another White Book into the basket. I would like to point out, crucially and once again, whenever our ministers or the President of the Government go to a European Council or ministers to a Council of the European Union for Work, Competitiveness, ECOFIN; it is almost always a matter of being active in Europe for as long as possible. We need to be in good shape, in working condition. I now hear that it is forbidden to work in this state. Colleagues and colleagues, in New Slovenia, we think it is time to improve the business environment in Slovenia to make it more competitive. I will not quote the scales now, but in Novi Slovenija we are not satisfied with the competitiveness scale, we are not satisfied that countries are ahead of us, even after economic freedom, these are Romania, Bulgaria, Slovakia, the Czech Republic. When we chaired the Council of the European Union in the first half of 2008, the heads of the European institutions told us that we were a new star in the European sky. Today the French have measured us that our specific weight is zero in the institutions of the European Union. And purely human, the vast majority of Slovenes and Slovenes are not happy if they are in social life. We are most happy when we can create, when we realize all of our potentials that I have already talked about, intellectual, entrepreneurial, manual if you want. And that actually makes us confident, proud, creating a better social climate, a state of the spirit. I must say, I am disappointed when I see from my point of view that such clear solutions simply do not have an understanding of government parties. We just don't get it. Maybe the principle is not to look at what someone is proposing, but to suggest something. And if someone is not right, then his solutions must be trampled.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u132	Thank you very much, proposer. We begin with the general debate of Members and Members. I'm asking if the government wants to speak? Please, Mr. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. The debate is interesting. In two cases, I'd like to add one. First of all, as far as regression claims are concerned, I would repeat one little thing, and then I would go on specific cases to give it all together in context. Employers are responsible for failing to carry out safety and health measures at work or other measures which are prescribed or designed for the safety of persons; in addition, where they have concluded a working relationship without prior medical examination for a person who was later found not to be able to carry out certain tasks, and consequently the insured has become disabled, the need for foreign assistance and service or death. In no case shall employers answer without limitation, as I have already said in the introduction, in the position of the Government, disproportionately and for any minimum error, since in all cases compensation liability shall be identified and enforced. When this responsibility is exercised, it is necessary to demonstrate all the assumptions of compensation liability and so on. And, of course, the worker's contribution is also seen. Here I have a few cases, these are all the cases we got on a certain cut-off date that are currently open are open-ended lawsuits. It's these six cases, and I'm gonna go over these cases for a while. First case. The worker fell off the roof and got hurt. The worker had no seat belt, no safety fence, no safety test at work, and no medical examination. The amount claimed is thousands of euros. Second case. The worker fell from a height of three meters. The worker didn't have a seat belt, there was no safety fence, there was a broken board on the stage. Amount – EUR 9 000. Next, this is the highest one I'm going to give. The worker worked on the roof and fell from a height of 1.7 feet [4.7 m] because there was no protective or hunting stage. This is a construction company that knows the rules, which knows that a height of 4.7 meters means the height to be looked after. We are talking about the safety and health of workers in the workplace. The amount claimed is EUR 17 000. Then we have the following case: the worker was damaged in the handling of the cleaning machine. He's got his hand in the drum. In this regard, if we move forward, there have been detected violations by the employer involved in the installation and maintenance of the steel structure, that the worker has been deployed in the excessive working environment despite the ban on work in the robbery and has not been adequately instructed about the handling of the machine. He had no skill test, and his employer failed to train him for safe and healthy work. The amount claimed is EUR 9 000. The following example, the worker fell off the stage because he was not adequately qualified for this work and because the construction stage was demolished. Probably because he wasn't qualified and couldn't do the right thing. The amount claimed is EUR 2 000. The next and last case, the worker fell off the roof because he didn't have the right equipment to work at altitude. The employer deals with construction. The amount claimed is EUR 10 000. What do I mean by that? I would like to say that this is a case of companies dealing with certain parts that know the risks to their workers; and this regression has come about. These regressive claims are significantly lower in the case of the pension allowance, which is now on the agenda, than in the case of health and also in the case of amounts; but they are cases where there is indeed inappropriate treatment by employers. When we look at safety and health at work, we also look at this as a multifaceted issue; and there are different mechanisms that fit in. One of those, which is also one incentive, which is a negative type for employers to stick to the rules, is one. And now, under point 2, I've set myself this double status. That's the way it is. Double status is an extremely difficult issue. Why? Because we're dealing with a matter that addresses very different things – from what it means to a specific social group, to how society should treat it, or whether it should be directed at it. Why not young people? They need apartments, they have kids, and so on. Why this group? This is the first question, which is also a social issue. This will also need to be discussed. The second thing is, when we ensure it, to do so in such a way that there will be no distortions in the system that would unnecessarily cause them, which means that conditions must be very clearly set. Here we are talking about forty years of working time, talking about that we should probably have a condition for someone to retire first, then reactivate; and at the request of the employer. Here I am taking little note of what the proponent himself said that we have certain sectors, especially the public sector, if we are looking at perhaps lecturers, we have officials here and so on, this solution could be a problem for the country if we did not have a breakup first, and then the employer decides – Do I still need its contribution to our work? From here on out, there are other things. You mentioned that this right was acquired, but if we look now, you're referring to a relatively narrow group, we're talking about espies. In espies, it is often so that the pension that they then receive is, in particular, the one that is for 40 years when a special social minimum has been set up, what someone should get for 40 years of work, it is found in most cases that, because they have contributed relatively little to the cash register, they would not be able to earn or receive those pensions in principle without correcting them. Therefore, the question arises when we look at these social groups, whether at the moment as a society we will also decide to get 100% of that adjusted pension or maybe just the ones that it has earned. Because otherwise, during his work we helped him through transfers and later through transfer, when he was retired, we helped him again. If we make this decision as a society, fine, but we need to take this into account and consider how to make these relationships right. I would point out the following thing, not as an alternative to double status. We already have a few solutions because it has been said that they are not allowed to work. Everyone can work ahead, there is no debate here. If someone wants to be espa and continue as espa, they continue as espa. If someone wants to be employed, he can continue as an employee; but here is your question, which you refer to, whether the whole pension is present. I would like to mention some of the solutions that are now available. Once you have fulfilled the full conditions, you have the possibility of receiving the salary you have, another 20% of your pension. That's one option. The second option is that, for example, if you retire partially at one age, you have to be insured for at least 10 hours a week; for that part is then paid, and for the other part is pension; and it should be stressed that this is not excluded from those 20% which would eventually be received at the same time when the conditions are met. From here on, there are also some other types, from temporary, occasional work of pensioners, which can reach up to €7,000 per year, civil contracts, personal complementary work, complementary activities on the farm and so on. Now I am not saying that this is the same matter as we will bring to the National Assembly, which is expected next year, with the previous coordination of the coalition and, hopefully, the social partners. I want to say that when someone says that it is impossible to work; I just want to say that it is possible and some options in Slovenian legislation already exist. Let's call this an addition to the debate. Next thing. It was said that Slovenian society is ageing, and that is a fact. However, the following should be noted here. We have the biggest problem between the ages of 57 and 65. Not necessarily those who have already fulfilled the conditions for retirement, but there, relatively speaking, very few people work. And they either go to a longer-term hospital or they're on hold or they're longer in the Employment Service. And there's a triple, multi-layer problem. One concerns us as a country to find the right solutions so that people can work, work less, work together, and so on, that they want to work longer. The second aspect is certainly an aspect of the economy, where it will have to be seen how they can help ensure that workers at a certain age can occupy certain jobs reserved for them. Sometimes I give an example of a utility company, and it's illogical that a 20, 25-year-old boy drives a truck, and in the back of the rain, two 60-year-old men throw out buckets. You will probably go to a hospital as soon as possible, or something like this will happen, or you will retire early because this work is unsustainable. This means that some solutions will also have to be found on this side, and we also know that the economy is thinking about it actively, but it will probably have to be accelerated. Finally, even on the side of employee cooperation, trade unions are also called how to address these complex problems so that we can be part of them. There's the part where we have very high costs, a small level of engagement, it's called employment. If you look at OECD data from 25 to 55 years old, Slovenia is the first within the OECD after the proportion of employees. We are there at the peak, and after those years things are getting a little worse for us, and this will also have to be addressed when we talk about these things, that we will come up with some solutions that will be coherent, which will also address more dimensions, so that it will not be some lonely people who could lead to long-term instability of the pension system as well. Previously, what has happened in the last ten years has also been said. I'd still give you one piece of information. At present, we are almost 620,000 pensioners, and in the last ten years this figure has increased by about 100,000, that is a lot for such a country. For as many employees as we have, that is a great deal, which means that certain adjustments within the system have already been made. It would also be worth pointing out that the first pillar, as we know it, I hope, will remain an integral part because it is one of the greatest gains. It was invented, we can call it, in Europe. I hope that most of Europe's 1st pillar will continue as long as possible, because it is probably one of the greatest civilisational gains to help the elderly. From here on out, because it has been said that we are not for the purpose of correcting injustices. Voluntary inclusion was meant here. I would point out, however, that the Constitutional Court has also decided that this was not a disproportionate intervention, which means that that decision of the Constitutional Court in some way shows that it was not an injustice. As far as the White Paper is concerned, I sometimes use an interesting word relationship to make a function not smart, here I am thinking of myself. I've been to the Ministry of Finance before, and I have a lot to learn, thanks for the compliment in this respect. I can almost think of a white book. It's true that I've read it, and I'm gonna have to read it a few more times so that I can probably figure it out. Nevertheless, I would point out in particular that there is a set of possible solutions. There are some professional concepts that have been translated into the White Paper, which provide a relatively good basis for further political debate and as broad a social consensus as possible, with which pension reforms must also be adopted because we are actually talking about society as a whole. Young ones, after all, children, employees, and pensioners must be united to this extent in order to recognize each other’s belongings and to what extent. And yet I'd like to mention one thing that you raised yourself. There is a full age for dual status, which means 65 years. I don't know when there's gonna be any reform in 10, 15, 20 years, it could be 67 years. What the coalition is preparing right now, the reflections have not yet gone so far as to confirm or deny anything, but this is also one thing that I would point out is that it is in the White Paper, as far as double status is concerned. The coalition agreement speaks of this being addressed. The coalition is talking about this being addressed. The government is talking about this being addressed. Even the IMF, I'm talking about this being addressed. As a matter of fact, it's a very complex problem. We expect to be able to present solutions to you in this regard in the coming year, and there are still a few more computations, talks and social dialogues to reach this consensus, how, in what way, this will also be more broadly socially acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The proposer now has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you for your input, Mr. Secretary of State. Those six accidents at work, they were terrible, which you listed. I won't repeat them, but I wrote them down. If everything was as you said it was, there was no fence, there was no fence, there was no harness, there was no lecture; but normally, the employer has to pay here. Why did you even list them? That's what we've been saying all day. Now, you answer me, of course, if you want, let's give a practical example. The construction site, you're the head of the construction site, but you've got more, you've got 3 construction sites. You can't be in three places at the same time under physical law. You're monitoring three. In this construction site you equipped the workers with protective equipment, you ordered that they should have helmets, even a construction site to sound where the speaker sounds – helmet, helmet, helmet, helmet, say. Then you go to another construction site and, as I said before, one of the workers is hot, he's squeezing, he throws his helmet down. The next moment, a hammer comes to his head. God forbid, permanent disability. And you can go to prison because you're the head of the building, or you're by the house, if you're espa, because you're answering with all your property, assuming you have a house. We address these questions, not the six you listed, where it is evident that the employer responsible for the construction site or whatever it was is is responsible. You got yourself involved when you said that this pension that espé would have been given to continue his work paid all the contributions and that the pension would not have been paid because it was necessary to give it to young people. Maybe I didn't get it right. This isn't about young people from the pension fund. We have young people at the forefront, but in this case, we don't. If a singer reaches all the full conditions for a full pension and you give him – yes, the December 2015 law – 20%, you have thus resolved this status. It is said that he can continue to work, but 80% of his rights have been cut off. Is that fair? Then he can say, "I'm not going." I've worked hard enough. I'm locking down the plant. And he's sending those five employees on the road. Did you calculate this balance through public finance optics? Just do the math and you'll see where you're going. With your law – well, then you were not, but you were in the coalition in December 2015 – with your law, now I am talking about Prekmurje, which I know a little better, you have closed several shops, including a few inns. [[…]] And it's true, there's less and less good inns because of such stupid legislation. What is the solution, among other things? At that time, the secretary of state and I were sitting about here, and I was in seat number 90, having some serious controversy. Because the solution to this law is, among other things, the same. This is from the Ministry of Labour website: »This ensures an even more flexible form of transition from work to full retirement. All insurers,” i.e. independent entrepreneurs, shareholders, workers and farmers, “who meet the conditions for retirement, now have the option of receiving 75% of the pension if they are included in the insurance for two hours a day.” Let's stay at the inn. Does anyone in the world know a tavern that's open two hours a day? Or any other activity, two hours a day? Do you like this solution? That's why we didn't support her. It's not life! And let's just take life's solutions once and delete it as soon as possible, or we'll re- table a bill that will erase it because it's not life. It's making a fool of yourself. You did a good math. At the age of 57 to 65, we are European recorders. There's the least of us employees in here. You're saying that all these problems that we are now opening are addressed by the coalition agreement. We look forward to it, because then, under the line, we speak the same language. And explain to us whether you will then come up with a package of social, pension, tax laws, so that at least we will have a little bit of an idea, what awaits us, that no one will ever tell us again if there is nothing out of this now that we will re- table these laws in two years. I hope it's not forbidden. That could happen, too. ZUJF was scary, really. I supported him with a heavy heart. However, it has been quite open to certain groups of professions. For example, university teachers were not simply thrown into compulsory retirement, those who had already fulfilled some of the conditions. If it was their boss, the Dean said he needed it, he kept it. Therefore, some remained despite the age of 75. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Now he wants to speak to the government again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u137	I'll be brief, because at some point I was a little awkwardly understood. As far as these accidents are concerned at work, this is in principle all that is involved in these cases, which are in the event of an action. You mentioned an example where I understand that the documentation had been arranged by the employer, he also warned actively, he got involved in it, but then the worker’s negligence resulted in such an accident. In such a case, there is no complaint against the employer. He did everything in his power. The situation was such that he could not influence because the fact is that he cannot stand behind everyone all the time; and there was this event. That's not what you're talking about, what you want to solve, because it can't happen in principle. The second thing is, the unions are also very strongly aware of this and they are aware of it. For the last time, Mr Zorko specifically pointed out in one of the debates that it is extremely important that when employers take certain measures, they provide security equipment, workers take this into account because it is also their interests, their benefits and so on. It is some broad awareness of all sides, the social partners. It's not just the employers, it's the unions on this side. This reflection, this initiative, including what is one of the priority areas of the Ministry of Labour, which is safety and health at work, support and help to develop. Second, I may have said too many things or said many times before, but there was no expression of what I was going to say. We have a social adjustment that is just over 500 euros if you have 40 years of work. Many of those who are espouses would, for example, have earned a pension of around 350, 400 euros due to low contributions. And here the basic question is whether in such a case to address it in some way, what is what is being admitted to it. And this is what is still a matter of debate, of identification, of some professional debate, of course of political debate. I don't speak for the workers because you don't refer to it in the proposal. As far as funding for students or young people is concerned, I would say that from the budget over a billion goes to the pension fund. There is also some interdisciplinary link between how much money we have at our disposal for one policy and another policy. The financial system or public finances are intertwined and interconnected and must also be viewed in this way. If it can be done somewhere, it is likely that the money should be provided or taken. It was also mentioned that all the problems were addressed by the coalition agreements. The coalition agreement is a document that provides for, above all, political guidance and our work agenda, and it is up to us to find good, professional solutions in the coming months and years in order to achieve it well. If we thought that all the solutions were already written there in such a way that we could directly implement them, this could pose quite a risk. And I think we're all aware of that in this room. This is about working together for the coalition, for the teams. I think we'll be able to show these results in a little while.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u138	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. If I understand correctly, we are now moving on to a debate between Members and Members. I'm talking a little bit slower because I'm wearing my glasses right now. I have a word for Vojko Starović.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Say good-bye to everyone again! This novel, which first signed by Joseph Horvat, is also part of a series of novels that has some purpose. I must immediately say that our party, Alenka Bratušek, supports these objectives. However, we cannot support the law because we are about going through a government procedure. We were at the government, we were at the minister's, we presented our views, and they promised us that the procedure would run out. And we're playing this, understand, we have to play this, otherwise we can't be a government party. And any change in labour legislation in this area, social legislation, also requires this social dialogue. And I think that this social dialogue is a great instrument to bring us together in this country and to take care of some fairness and equal solutions for all. We have to work in this direction, and I believe we will work in this direction. But I don't accept the debate that we don't have a feeling. You said, "We have come now with the right laws, with the right solutions for men who are righteous; but you do not accept this." I don't accept this debate, and I don't think it's real. But I was glad to see that Tonin stressed that you were advocating a socio-market model, even though he said we were pushing Friedman and Hayek. My colleague, Jože, mentioned them several times, and we once had a debate about me defending the newer Nobel Prize winners, not the one from half a century ago and back. And I think that, for the last time, in the debate on the Ombudsman's report, we have raised our way of speaking and dialogue to a higher level. I don't like it either, even though there's no one here from the Left, and I'm gonna stand in front of the Left. They have so many votes for themselves, it's parliamentaryism. And so many people voted for them, and this is their presence and their view is also present, there is no need to say that they are just a far left and not going. We're not left. No, in my speech, we're not left. If you have identified yourself as what you are, we must also make it clear. We also had this on behalf of the party – social-liberal. And I think we're all more or less orientations that we're in the middle of. I don't know where it is to talk about some left-wing government. And that we are against the good, social solutions that are for people when you advocate a socio-market model that we are against it now, we simply do not accept it. We had you on a visit, we listened to you, and after your visit we went to the government and we told them to start this procedure and find the right solutions to be harmonised. Once again, as a basic education lawyer, I have to announce, as far as the emphasis on compensation is concerned, the whole system of this security, the whole system of judicial practice, the whole system that talks about this compensation and solves it. I don't think there can be any other solution here than a general solution in civil law, as we have regulated and more or less harmonised at the European level. We can't support the marriage, if you understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u140	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now he has the word, Mr. Jernej Vrtovec. Get Mr Blaž Pavlin ready. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u141	Thank you, Chairman. The key question on this issue is why a person who has, for example, € 550 or €500 in pension is, we all recognize, a right from work, not to allow himself to continue his work, which he could have done for 40 years as an independent entrepreneur. Or the reverse question, why should this man who did this work be given 80% of his pension? And when some of you have already fallen into your positions at the Constitutional Court, that we speak convincingly about what is constitutionally controversial and that this part of the New Slovenia Act is constitutionally controversial; for this we have the Constitutional Court to say it. In my opinion, it is also constitutionally disputed that some legislation takes a person's right to a pension on his neck, even though he has done his job for 40 years; and that is the right. We're all talking about justice. We have taken the rights acquired at 80%. And that's not right. But if we're here, we're going to go to the numbers, and sooner to the Secretary of State, one thing when he said it would be difficult to equalize and it would be difficult to do things, because, for example, someone pays a minimum of €350 and then receives a pension of €500; and there will be this difference. Look, it's the same for employees. The contribution rates at this level are the same as those paid by self-employed persons or by us, employees, employees of the employer. The employer pays us the same rate. And if you're going to go this way, then you're really going to crash into a concrete wall, so you're not going to do it until 10 years later when you save this system the way we say it. But what are the benefits of our proposal? The pluses with our proposal are: we get more in the cash register. Secondly, consumption is also increasing. Why more to the cashier's office? Because these pensioners would also pay contributions. What now, what happened to us? Individuals who had espouses, of course, took a full pension, closed their espouses, and copied them to their children, relatives, and so on; and they themselves do the same work in black. That's what's going on. When we had this presentation in the previous term, the Chamber of Commerce came with a certain number, how many espouses this law closed down its company. Well, let's see a little plus, minus. If an individual has 550 euros in pension, it means minus 550 euros for the country, because he decided to close the company. Although our proposal would still be negative €550, it would be worth €350, for example. This certainly increases consumption and would have more money, even for the state treasury. And I really don't understand why not accept this proposal, even if it doesn't regulate the whole segment, the whole problem is that even ordinary employees, let's say in public administration, could no longer be able to do their jobs when they retire. Why, though, accept our proposal? Because this is where the added value is. There are people here who can also hire people as compared to ordinary employees when we speak in the public administration of employed people. I really hope that we will respect what is written in the White Paper, that the LMŠ will respect what is written on the website: “The main reason for the thoughtful flexibility of the labour market, all the potentials in Slovenia and also the working-age pensioners, so that we can preserve economic development and the social state.” And that we will come up with these changes to prevent the injustices that occur to pensioners because they are entitled to a full pension. Everybody. Not that those who want to create and want to continue to work do not have this right or are deprived of this right. And secondly, to encourage people to work. It is true that we will encourage them to work. I want as many pensioners as possible as you can see that they are healthy, that we really have such good health care, that they have the energy to add even more to society. Easy. Thank God we have such people who do not say in fulfilling the conditions for retirement – now we are going on the couch or just walking through the parks. But they're also worried about this country, they're worried about their kids, they're worried about contributions, they're worried about the company. And on the nose, they don't shut the company down, but they want to keep creating. We need more of that, more of an inviting business environment. And in good faith, ladies and gentlemen, this law has been made; even in the past all laws have been made, this was previously evident, as proposed by New Slovenia, made in good faith. But why do we expect coalition support this time in good faith? Once again, I would like to stress that this matter has been harmonised and already written somewhere in July. If you reject this legislation, it will not be in the worse New Slovenia, it will not be in the worse National Assembly; in particular, the pensioners will be in the worse and these companies will be in the worse.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u142	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The word wants to have a government. Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. There's only one thing I'd like to point out. I initially said that it was a very complex area, as far as dual status is concerned. That is precisely why I have laid down what matters are difficult or will need to be discussed, considered, and made a decision. If they are difficult, I do not think there is any obstacle to getting rid of them; but that certainly does not mean that they are necessary, because I think you have tried to introduce them in some way, even as regards employees. As for those you mentioned working in black, if you may have information on such cases, I suggest that you contact the relevant institutions operating. Here we have a financial administration, which also has an anonymous phone number to which something like this can appear, we also have an Inspectorate for Work. ZIPRS has just been adopted by the Government, which foresees a certain reinforcement, including the Market Inspectorate. However, I also know that these environments, such as the Chamber of Commerce, are sensitive to this and are careful or trying to achieve that those who are their disloyal competitors withdraw from the market so that they can operate normally in our space.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u144	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. The replica has a Jerney Gardener.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u145	I agree that it is necessary to pursue work in black, I agree with the Secretary of State. But the problem is that in this case these entrepreneurs found themselves on the other hand because they were forced to do so. Maybe they have another employee at home, two, three, four, five. Or you might prefer to see the Ministry of Labour, the family, and social affairs paying them as unemployed persons. Euro per euro, euro per euro. And let's give people a chance to work, people of God, to create, then to go to the store, to spend, to have a nice time on vacation. As much as the money goes around. And then there'll be more to everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u146	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now Mr Blaž Pavlin has the floor. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u147	Thank you for your word. Slovenia is a country of working and creative individuals. 98% of the Slovenian economy is a small economy, craftsmen, entrepreneurs who employ more than 300,000 people. Before the elections, all five government parties promised to help relieve the economy and remove bureaucratic obstacles. I hope you haven't forgotten your promises now. The proposal for a new law proposed by Nova Slovenija also introduces the dual status of retired craftsmen and independent entrepreneurs. Slovenia is one of the few countries that prevents or at least makes it difficult for people to work, even though they want to. Let me warn you that we are talking about craftsmen and independent entrepreneurs who have worked for 40 years and have earned a full pension. If they wish to receive a pension, they must close their own company. In Novi Slovenija, we find this unacceptable. If they were allowed to continue their activities, they would still pay the prescribed taxes, taxes and other contributions, which would be positive from the point of view of the State. Let people do it if they want.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Mojca Žnidarič has the floor. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u149	Thank you for your word. A nice hello to all once again! I'm going to be brief, although some people can't be, and they say they're in a really hurry to get home. I'm going to lay down those facts that I know from practice would bring new injustices and not fix the old ones. With dual status, I would only add that I agree with all our coalition colleagues, as well as the government, who said that this dual status should be regulated for all pensioners. We can't just arrange it for a small handful of people, it's only for independent entrepreneurs or entrepreneurs. If we give everyone the opportunity to work, you have read for yourself that the LMŠ had in a statement – everyone; then let this option be settled for all pensioners. Secondly, taking into account voluntary contributions. I agree and thank all those who voted in the previous term in favour of equalising the payment of contributions, the right working time and pension period until 31 December 2012, because this has not previously been separated in the legislation and is also fair. It is not fair, however, that it would now be equivalent, that is, after 1 January 2013, when PPIZ's legislation clearly delineates what the pension age is and what the working time is and what injustices would arise here again, as I mentioned them. You say, here you write that you want this payment of pension contributions to continue after 31 December 2012 until the first termination of the status. Mr. Horvath, will you listen to what I have to say? Which new injustices would have arisen. All those people we've included in the public works, all those people who have accepted the seasonal work, all of them would then fall out of this system. But those who somehow stayed in the institution would come through. I do not agree with this, people have repeatedly asked themselves, were afraid to go to work, were afraid to engage in public works, and we all argued that the legislation was clear that nothing could change now; now we should change something back and do new injustices. The same is true of working people with disabilities. As soon as this was adopted, i.e. on 1 January 2013, when the new legislation entered into force, I wondered at the time why a different transitional period had occurred; for the unemployed, 5 years for the employees of 3 years. I checked the legislation at the time, and at the time of the previous amendment of the legislation in 1999, it was exactly the same. Persons with disabilities who are employed have always had a somewhat shorter transitional period, this protection than the unemployed. And now, after six years of making such a change, I find it really unacceptable or ridiculous. In fact, because I had checked and looked at the fact that Nova Slovenija was in the government at the time, December 2012, when you accepted this, so I really see no point in creating new injustices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u150	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u151	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Mojca Žnidarič, yes, we were there, we made a mistake, now we want to fix it. People have come to tell us that they have been wronged, so we want to eliminate this injustice. But you didn't read the law. This is not just about espouses who will achieve a right called a pension; I also want you to be a full-time Member of Parliament; then I want you to be healthy – I see you are active – and I want you to remain active for 20 years. Open espa, if you want, that's your freedom, you'll be a great counselor in the field you're in. Why not? You, too, can be a retired member with a hundred percent pension, open espies – Counseling Mojca Žnidarič, p. p., and pay all contributions, train your brain further. This is something that is normal in other countries, and we just want to normalise this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u152	I've been watching if there's a replica and it's not there. Is it? Yeah. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u153	I want to be active for a long time, too, but this transition period has already passed, for both of us, for the unemployed and for the disabled, five years longer, and now six years have passed. I really don't see the point. How many renewals at the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance would this entail? If you haven't been visited before and found in five years, then now that it's all gone, it really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u154	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Now Mr. Yuri has a nice word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u155	Thank you, President. I'd keep going, we've said a lot, and maybe I'd go for it. The pensioners were told that between the ages of 57 and 65, they were the hardest to employ. That's logical. We're all aware of that. In our society, it's just that if you're not employed these years, then it's hard to get a job. Whether you're s.p. or d. o. o., it doesn't matter where you work. This area could be illuminated. Earlier it was said about employees in the Espoo employer, clearly, employers pay a hundred percent for them, as they need to, the real pay more than some espionage pays for themselves. As far as this is concerned, we can be clear. The employer must pay contributions for the employee, just as he has a gross salary. And if it's gross wages, say, a thousand 200 euros, it's just contributions like it has to be. From this point of view, they are employed in larger companies and are equal in small espouses. Here I see no difference in that there would be any difference in the employment of small or large employers. However, if the employer has, say, s.p. or d. o. o., of course, there is a difference. If he has a d. o., he has to pay his salary, he has to pay his contributions, maybe he has a small salary; in espionage, you pay as much as you have, how much you have, or have, on the basis of the activity tax you pay your contributions. In most cases, such as the Ministry's data, 70% of independent entrepreneurs pay less than minimum contributions. I didn't even know it, I never deepened, but if that's what it is, then it's clear that it's from this title; then we're looking at how much it wears off or how much it doesn't recover, and we're seeing how much deficit there is in this pension fund. [[…]] The party Desus looks for everything, for the whole of it, the pensioners, no matter what they've done before. And I am very pleased that Mr. Gardener is concerned, encouraging the self-employed. It's not that easy to get a job. We were in the local community years ago, and I remember, as has been said, giving you the means to self-employed. Personally, I knew this was more than 80% of the emergency exit. And if this is an emergency exit, then it's hard for me to be here right now worrying about putting it into law, or let's say that this employment system would be developmental. It's not developmental, it's just throwing sand into people's eyes so people get a little confused and say we have lower unemployment. Nevertheless, I think we need to look for legislation that will cover as many people as possible, and I am certainly satisfied with today's debate. New Slovenia is fighting, it's laying down laws. I am sure or I would be happy not to make the same marriage six more times in the second year. We are trying to resolve gradually, as we have learned before, that some legislation can be made through, some government will go through, even in our coalition commitment there are some things. But they certainly are not, nor have I known them before, when you said that you had already negotiated with the current coalition or with these parties, and that we were not personally aware of the details of the members of Desus. When the story was over, it was the end of the story. I wouldn't be here right now. However, it would certainly be different from now and would certainly be looking for joint projects and common ideas of common desires that could be brought through, much easier than now. You said we had these inspectors. For a craftsman and a small entrepreneur, it doesn't matter who's making noises, who's working in black. The problem is that the inspector can get to the espies, to the parts because he has addresses and numbers, but he can't contact a physical person, so let's say a lot of work at home. These are the problems that we say in the Chamber of Commerce are not attainable because the inspector can't officially come to Yuri Lepo's house to do something if he wasn't espa. So you have to have this story first. The other is that now the craftsmen would say of each other – the Inspector, this and this work; and you will not experience this from ourselves to report a foreign craftsman. And I don't get it at times when it's a lot of talk about espouses and employers giving money to some employees. That's what I'd like to see him do, too, 'cause if he puts the money on his hand, he's got to get his hands on it. However, for craft engaged in some production, it is of interest that they also have costs. And as much as you can cost, you have so much to say you have that kind of profit. But if you give someone money, money, where does it come from, the whole chain is already poisoned. That's the problem that we see within our trade industry that's not right. I expect that next year, if not with the government and the ministry, we will try to put some ideas on the table that will be feasible with New Slovenia and with you, Mr Joseph. I've already said before that it is not in my interest to speak now, but we are all against or we are all in favour. What we can do will be few of those demands that we wanted to do; but some of them could be carried out. If we make a deal earlier, we could certainly get some things through, for which small entrepreneurs, craftsmen want to go through. But if we go, like now, to this extreme, to another extreme, there will always be some brake on one side or the other. I'm interested in getting something through for our own good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u156	Mr Member, the representative of the proposaler is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u157	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for the discussion, colleague Lepa, but as long as the debate with colleague Mojca Žnidarič is as fresh as I can see, it is not important. These solutions with which we want to eliminate the injustices – we discussed – have received a kind of request here from the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. You're in the government, sit with them, ask and give a better solution. These are injustices.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u158	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Aljaž Kovacič has the floor now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u159	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Clearly, in this reference to Parliament, it is a practice for us to like to quote each other, which is nothing wrong if things are not taken from the context when you, Mr Horvat, said what the LMŠ had promised in pre-election matters. But also a fellow Member said in the position of the Marjan Šarca Group that we are committed to a logical, systematic and comprehensive solution to this problem. We believe that your proposal does not solve this matter. When we also talked about package regulation of these matters, you mentioned that if we suddenly put 60 laws into Parliament; of course we do not intend to do so, because we also talked about other matters, that we will arrange them packaged, such as averages, social transfers, minimum wages and pensions. These things are settled. I think it would be nice if we were all happy here. We're also working things out with the unions. And if you speak as much as you feel good about it, let us be happy that the government is doing well, even public research shows it well, so that we can all be happy. There was much talk about what kind of government must be, whether it was a left or a right government. I think the government is good or bad. But for this government, I think it's working very well so far. What are you on your own and we don't want to go to LMŠ? We don't want to create privileged groups of pensioners. You can work with some professions after 40 years. I am myself a master of history and a master of pedagogy, and I believe that after 40 years I will be able to work on this matter for some time, perhaps 20%, 30%. Someone who worked in the mine for 40 years, I don't think he has the slightest desire to even work. And what our business must be to arrange — not to let pensioners survive through this work, but to make it a supplement. But when you mentioned ZUJF earlier. That it's okay for you to have a high school teacher at 75 years of age. I don't think that's right, because he didn't give a lot of young people a job in college. As an interesting thing to say, I had a professor at the Badminton class and a target fitness class that was 80 years old. Does that seem normal to you? Not to me. What's my opinion? Teachers who are so old that they deserve to come to college to teach, young people will be happy to listen; but they cannot take the job of young people who pave the way for different careers. What am I trying to say? When we adopt this law, this law must enable pensioners to work if they want to, not to work to survive.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u160	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Kovacic, it was not in the law that old professors had to work. I told you, because I know you haven't read the law, we've been very, very tolerant about the college sphere, maybe it's not the right word. The Dean of the university is the one who said he needs you or doesn't need you, regardless of your age. My roommate, you know what a roommate is, a great one, has some honorary doctorates, a world-class lecture right now, he's the one the dean threw out. Why? Because he was a competitor. However, I have on the FDV case where the lady was, yes, as we said, over 70; perhaps she is still. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u162	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You've earned a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u163	Thank you. I know what a roommate is. I've had a lot of them in my study years, and I have to say, these were the most beautiful parts of my life. You said the dean made that decision; he decided because he was limited to finance and it was easier for him to hire a professor through various contracts than to hire a young man who was willing to work in the research field on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u164	Thank you. Lady Janja Servant, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u165	Thank you. It is very difficult for me to discuss today because a fellow Member is acting as a proposalr, which I have deep respect for and then it is very difficult to go back. [[…]] And it takes a lot to hold on. The content is one that you can very skillfully reverse, past events very skillfully reverse; a little differently than we have seen. So first, I'm going to go back to that novel that we supported in the first reading, but in terms of regressive claims and double status, we've already said that we don't support this work. That was clearly said at the time. It was also said about voluntary inclusion in compulsory pension insurance, which you included in that third version. By the way, the PIZ-2E had already been adopted, that we had already warned that this bullet would be rolling, which we are talking about today, and that all those who then felt as if they had been wronged will come forward. With regard to the amendment tabled by the Party of the Modern Centre on the initiative of former Member Mitje Horvat, yes, we were then sitting, as you have already said, some of the representatives of the then parliamentary group have sat with you, have worked very constructively and have written some of the solutions that you are now including in this proposal; thinking that we have found the right solutions. But at the time, the procedure did not go on for so long as the Government accepted its opinion. And when we read this opinion today, it reminds us why this solution is not appropriate. So the solution we found together at the time is obviously not the right solution. And we know that your proposal is well-intentioned, but we also note, as the Secretary of State has said today, that it is a content that is extremely complex, where one article refers to another, where the correction in one article actually restarts the entire plaza of articles that relate to it; and it is necessary to look very carefully at what is being corrected, how it is being corrected, and what the consequences of these corrections then also have on all the rest of the content. And if I can only make one comment. This time you submitted an identical novel, the same marriage text as the previous one, and you did not properly correct the accompanying text. On page 4 of the proposal tabled, you refer to the proposal for the amendment of the EPIZ-2E, which is submitted for parliamentary consideration. I said it was already adopted in the middle. I would also like to draw attention to this assessment, which you point out, that the proposal corrects injustice for many women. In a proposal that is supposed to accurately define some of the consequences where some specific figures are expected, I think the assessment of “big women” is flat, somewhat insufficient for some serious further consideration or discussion. Now, as far as double status is concerned. You know what our coalition contract says. My colleague also told me what our views on this matter were. I have also pointed out in the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre that this is a matter currently being challenged in the Constitutional Court. And despite the fact that we have some common goals, we obviously have them, but it does not seem very right to talk about what this party said before the elections, what the other party said before the elections, what we have posted on the website and what our views are. Our views can be even the same in the final goal, but the way to achieve this goal can be the same or the same; and they can be very different. And we just don't think that the path that you've taken, by changing these two articles, is the right way. It is not the right one, and it is even such that it cannot be supported even in the first reading, because then it cannot be adequately corrected in the next process so that it does not have any negative consequences then for the second content. And the dual status, as I said, is our goal, including our common goal. And after a time-table with a competent ministry, this dual status is supposed to be on tables somewhere in the first half of next year, as we look forward to. Today, this is my appeal to you, my colleague, as well as to the Secretary of State, we think that your ideas that you bring to the table are good, that they are worth taking into account; and we really want when this part is also being prepared by the Ministry, that you also sit down with them, that they listen to you and that they also follow your suggestions. And then, as we have done for that amendment in the previous term, we will find really some solutions, which will be appropriate this time, which the government will then support, and which will prove to be the ones that will live in practice. And, of course, we also look forward to these solutions in our Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u166	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. This concludes the debate between Members and Members in this round. He has a word, if he likes, a representative of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State. The word offered in the National Assembly shall be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u167	Thank you for your word. I would only conclude that, in accordance with the position put forward by the Government, and also in line with what we have presented in the debate, as many Members have also presented in the debate today, I must conclude that our assessment is that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u168	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Would you like to speak to the proposer? Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u169	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I don't think I have much time, unless Mr President allows me some extra time. First of all, I would like to thank you, first of all, for our meeting in the big salon, when we first opened the debate on four of our laws, one of which is the novel of the Income Law. Thank you for today's debate. I am pleased that colleague Janja has assessed that we are a perfectly normal parliamentary group, that we can talk to all of you, regardless of whether we are political opponents; but we are certainly together when we want the best for this country and our citizens and our citizens. I am glad that no one in this debate has said that the problems we are addressing in these three laws are not problems. You all said - Yes, problems are needed; but we, the government, the coalition will do this differently. It's perfectly legitimate, democratic, and we respect that. Yes, in politics, principles are certainly the most important. And what I once said, what you once said, that remains, that remains written, recorded and so on. And at the MoS in Cel, there was the management of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which gave its opinion on this law on a number of pages, and now I will not read it. They were very pleased and surprised, they had a lot of hopes for this government, because all the ministers, the Prime Minister of the government, came there and promised – yes, of course, we will resolve that. Nevertheless, I believe that these solutions will come to pass. Maybe I'll get another five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u170	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it? We have one report. Then there will be no division, because it is time for you to have a five-minute discussion at your disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u171	Thank you for today, Mr President. The craftsmen, the small entrepreneurs who are probably all agreeing, the backbone of the Slovenian economy, including the European economy, were somehow good will, if I may say so when they saw – Aha, this is now some new government, some other government, obviously, will be easier and even possible to establish a dialogue. To have the Chamber of Commerce and Industry write down to you the requirements or wishes of Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship and the programme for the development of a small economy, you probably cannot throw this book over your shoulder. I think each of you, colleagues and colleagues, at least the ones you've been to the International Trade Fair, have this on the table, or at least these top 20 demands. Yeah, some of them have been rolling for 15 years. 15 years. Mr. Nice can surely confirm this because a man of practice, who is certainly also a lexicon of a set of proposals, what to improve for Slovenian craftsmanship, Slovenian economy, is a small economy. When a law was passed, it writes: "The National Assembly has adopted it. Who today knows who the solution is, good or bad, suggested two, three, four, five years ago? The National Assembly has accepted. It does not say anywhere – On the proposal of New Slovenia, the National Assembly adopted it. It says in the Official Gazette – The National Assembly has adopted a new Law on Income and so on. We do not make the law because it would now be written somewhere – Aha, New Slovenia has done so. Do the National Choir. No one else. And I would like, and all of us in the New Slovenia Group, that the National Assembly would indeed be the creator of a better, more competitive business environment, so that the National Assembly would not be just some extension of the government. I think there's only more people here, we're covering all of Slovenia, we're also doing something, if I may say, in our previous life when we weren't Members. And if we put all this experience together, we can make very good solutions, regardless of our political opponents. I believe and I hope that we never are and that we will never be enemies. And that's all. I did not like that he was one of the Members, but now I will not mention the name, the magnetogram remembers, said that this is a, quote, “one small target group in an area called a craftsman and independent entrepreneurs or entrepreneurs”. The developed economies of those who are craftsmen, entrepreneurs, I'm not gonna say exactly on their hands, because that's not good either, but they're giving them more attention. I think we just have to realize once where the new added value is coming from, a new value. And even in this context, when we talk about a better business environment, in New Slovenia we simply cannot accept that with as many entrepreneurial, as many good people as we have in Slovenia, our productivity is 20% lower than the average productivity in the European Union. I hope that the Ministry of Labour, Mr Secretary of State, will also deal with this. There was a lot of promise for 2019, for next year, I look forward to it, I hope that we will all experience it and survive it, I am happy that a great deal of government solution will come to this national assembly to improve the business environment. Why? Because for several years, thank God, we have a conjuncture, we have economic growth, but we all know that there are economic cycles in the world and that the crisis will come sooner or later. Now is the time, ladies and gentlemen, to prepare ourselves for this crisis, too, for those years of dry cows. And in this context, our appeal, this is my appeal on behalf of the parliamentary group, let us begin to take concrete, decisive steps all together. We are here on the side of those who will bring better solutions to the business environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-23-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u172	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I now strongly conclude the general debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday, 27 November 2018, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the meeting. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed on Tuesday, 27 November 2018, at 9 a.m. Have a nice weekend and all the good stuff! Goodbye.
