ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 38th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Nada Brinovšek, Erika Dekleva, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer from 16:00 to 18.30, Andreja Potočnik from 16:00 on, Tea Ljubič from 15:00 to 19:00, Vojka Šergan from 15:00 on, Iva Dimic, mag. Marko Pogačnik, Zvonko Lah, Benedict Kopmajer, Peter Wilfan, Tomaž Lisec, Uroš Prikl by 12 noon, Janez Janša, mag. Bojan Krajnc by 3 p.m., mag. Dušan Verbič by 2 p.m. and Franc Ly. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Energy Act after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure mag. I'm putting pressure on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and honourable Members! Allow me to present to you the main points of the amendment proposal and the addition of the Energy Act. The Republic of Slovenia has received an official reminder from the European Commission due to the incorrect transposition of the second paragraph of Article 13 of the Energy Efficiency of Buildings Directive. In order to ensure compliance with the obligations laid down in the Directive, Article 336 of the Energy Act should be supplemented by the obligation to install an energy card also applicable to owners and tenants of buildings in which the public is often kept. The amendment of the Law adds the meaning of the term “effective remote heating and cooling” which means a system of remote heating or cooling using at least 50% of renewable energy, 50% of excess heat, 75% of cogeneration heat or 50% of a combination of heat from at least two previously mentioned sources. In 2016, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia issued a decision on the unconstitutionality of the eighth indent of paragraph 59a of Article 59a of the Energy Act. The said indent provided that the investor’s statement that he had served the landowners with an offer to conclude a contract on the acquisition of property rights or building rights for public benefit was also considered to be a right to build. In the light of the decision of the Constitutional Court, the procedure for obtaining payment of the relevant monetary allowance should also be added, i.e. compensation, for the period of actual use of the real estate for the purpose of building the energy infrastructure, until the decision on the decommissioning or establishment of the service for the public benefit or the acquisition of the right to own property in the disposing procedure. This is an amendment to Article 475 of the Energy Act. Furthermore, it is necessary to comply with the Guidelines on State aid for the environment and energy for the period 2014-2020. The European Commission has published new guidelines for state aid for the environment and energy for the period 2014-2020, which provide that the ceiling for the guaranteed purchase is limited to power plants of up to 500 kilowatts. In Slovenia, arrangements are still in place to provide support for devices with rated power up to one megawatt. Furthermore, the Proposal for a Regulation of the European Union on the Management of Energy Union will also form part of an energy policy in Slovenia as well as a national energy and climate plan setting out targets and contributions in the areas of carbon, energy efficiency, energy security, the internal energy market and research. Specific investments in infrastructure will also be an integral part of the national energy and climate plan. The amendment introduces the competence of a single management and control of the 110 kilovolt network. The solutions are different today and depend on the agreement between the system operator and the electricity distribution companies. However, by amending the law, jurisdiction will be determined in the law itself. Finally, the operation of electricity companies is inseparably linked to the functioning of the company of the system operator of the distribution network, so in the New Energy Law, we propose that before decisions are taken at the assemblies of electricity distribution companies for which SDH is otherwise responsible, the Minister responsible for Energy is given an opinion, since these companies are in fact carrying out an economic public service. In accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the third examination of the law be carried out at the same meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u3	The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u4	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 37th session. 1. 2018 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Energy Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at 117th session 15. 1. 2018 has taken a decision to consider the proposal for a law following a reduced procedure. In addition, on behalf of the applicant, the Secretary of State of Mag is the Secretary of State. Klemen Potysek stressed that the main objectives of the draft law are mainly to transpose certain provisions of the two European Directives, thereby eliminating non-compliance with European Union rules, the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and to comply with the Guidelines on State aid for the Environment and Energy for the period 2014-2020. He pointed out that the European Commission had sent an official reminder to the Republic of Slovenia for incorrect transposition of Article 13(2) of Directive 2010/31/EU. In order to ensure compliance with the obligations laid down in that Directive, Article 336 of the Energy Act should be supplemented by the obligation to install an energy card also applicable to the owner and tenant of buildings in which the public is often held; whether or not these buildings are owned or used by public authorities. The following was the case with the Constitutional Court’s decision to add the procedure for obtaining payment of the relevant monetary allowance, i.e. compensation, for the period from the actual use of the real estate for the construction of the energy infrastructure to the issue of a decision on the decommissioning or establishment of the service for the public benefit or the acquisition of the right to own property in the disposing procedure. As the last of the major changes, it highlighted this alignment with the Guidelines on State aid for the Environment and Energy for the period 2014-2020 already in the introduction. Article 372 of the Energy Act provides that support in the form of a guaranteed purchase of electricity produced shall be provided for production facilities with a rated power of up to one megawatt. EZ-1 was adopted in March 2014 and three months later the European Commission published new guidelines on state aid for the environment and energy, where the threshold for the guaranteed purchase is limited to power plants up to 500 kilowatts. In view of the above, this provision of the European Commission is transposed into our legal order. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups followed the comments raised. The President of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development explained that the Commission supports the bill. In the course of the longer discussion, Article 2 amending Article 20 EC-1 was proposed and subsequently adopted by the MEP and the MP of the Modern Centre, an amendment to the amendment to the Committee restricting public duties and compensation paid by the concessionaire for hydropower plants to a maximum of 10 megawatts by up to 14 % of their electricity sales. Following an explanation of the amendment, the substitution of duties for large renewable energy producers would allow the creation of resources to help achieve the commitments envisaged in Article 20, paragraph 1, and to achieve the environmental objectives of the decarbonisation. With regard to Article 8 amending Article 74 of the EC-1, which defines the payment of the system service, the Member of the Levica Group stressed that the proposed change in their position lays the basis for the payment of the primary regulation services, which is currently not defined as a system service that would be payable. He explained that the costs would thus be passed on to customers of electricity through the network raising, which, according to the Left Group, is an unjustified subsidy for the investment in the 6th block of TEC, so they proposed deleting this provision. The representative of Focus, the Society for Social Development and the representative of Greepeac in Slovenia also agreed with the member of the Left. The Director of Eles said that Slovenian end-users currently pay around EUR 100 million per year for the use of the transmission network because of the additional EUR 1.5 million for the primary regulation duty, there will be no need to increase the tariff for the use of the transmission network. The Committee further adopted the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, as well as its amendment to Article 2. He also voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, on her behalf by Dr. Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u6	Hello, everyone who's watching this session! We have a proposal for the Energy Act. If we look at the research on what the driving factors of the development of the European Union are – energy and transport – there is still an important topic ahead of us. But we're taking it on short notice. Why a shortened procedure? We cannot deal with the matter thoroughly and analytically; we cannot involve the public, the profession. What is the quality of the proposed law? What will be the consequences? Will the law be able to be implemented? How will all of this affect the finances? That's unclear. Specifically for this law, it is a pattern that we have some European directives that urgently need to be transposed. A few more technical details are hidden under the change; but what is more, what is in it and what is hidden. Of course, here are the elements of fear and speed, we'll pay for the pens and everything needs to be done quickly. What has the government done so far? If we look at it, what's hidden? It is a hidden network for TES 6, which was also pointed out by the State Council. We will still have many problems with TER 6 because we are awaiting emission vouchers, whose price is steadily rising. For example, the Dutch have already closed down such investments. What is the root of the problem and we don't even see it? The Energy Law is the basis for the Energy Concept of Slovenia, which will only come into consideration and is already under discussion. Once again, we will have the Energy Concept of Slovenia in front of us at the last meeting, which will be very hasty. Such a concept, as proposed, is outdated, not by Scandinavian models, far from that, and should have objectives, measures and indicators that it does not have. It is therefore envisaged that this concept will be built. The Energy Union Management Regulation, which is under discussion, is cited. Only negotiations are taking place between the Council of the European Union and the European Parliament, and we are already implementing this part. Why? Because it is in a hurry because the Energy concept of Slovenia, as proposed, is obsolete and will cover all obsolete investments. It does not follow modern European guidelines and if they were to adopt them later, then as such they would not be granted the approval of the European Commission. That's why he's in a hurry. And what's the pattern in front of us? It's the same pattern as the second-tier law. I have warned the MPs of the coalition not to adopt a law on the second track because we do not need it. A project is being implemented, it is running for European funds and it is starting to build. No! No! Parliament has proposed a law and therefore no second track is being built. The law has been proposed to take responsibility for Members. That's exactly how it's gonna be here with that energy. We have an old concept; the bill you will confirm is the basis for the obsolete Energy Project of Slovenia. With this law, we will once again lay the groundwork for the government to invoke, as you Members have adopted such a law that provides further ground; you will be responsible and the government will be relieved of its responsibility. We need to think about what we accept, how we accept. If European directives need to be implemented, yes, then let's delete the other articles. We pay what we have to pay to the European Union and we come up with a modern concept that is modelled on developed European countries. The standards to be adopted and adopted within the European Union by the end of the year in the so-called winter energy plan will be more rigorous and will be better for man and the environment. Do we want to live in such a country in the future, where the environment will be destroyed, or will we have renewable energies? For the reasons stated in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will not support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u7	The text shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mr Marjan Dolinšek, on its behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u8	Thank you, President. Nice greeting to all present in the hall! The reasons for the amendment of the Energy Act (EC-1) are in particular compliance with the two directives and the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the Guidelines on State aid for the environment and energy. The current Energy Act entered into force on 22 March 2014, when a comprehensive third energy package was fully transposed, this is the content of the ten directives and the individual provisions of the five regulations of the European Union, in particular as regards the designation of the supervisory authority and criminal sanctions. The implementation of Energy Act 1 has not identified any major problems, but some shortcomings have been identified, which are being improved by this amendment in a way that introduces a clearer definition of obligations for individual players in the energy market and eliminates some inconsistencies in the implementation of the provisions in force. The European Commission issued an official reminder for incorrect transposition of the second paragraph of Article 13 of the Directive. In order to fulfil the obligations laid down in the Directive, the law in force is complemented by the fact that the obligation to install an energy card also applies to owners and tenants of buildings where the public is often kept. The Regulation on the methodology for the production and issuance of energy certificates of buildings will be supplemented in accordance with this amendment of the law by the precise classifications of the facilities to which the additional obligation is to apply. The second alignment with European Union law relates to Article 2 of the Energy Efficiency Directive. A new meaning of the term is added which states that efficient remote heating and cooling means a system of remote heating or cooling using at least 50 % of renewable energy, 50 % of excess heat, 75 % of cogeneration heat or 50 % of a combination of heat and at least two previous sources. The meaning of the term set out in the Directive is less demanding than it has been transposed into Energy Act 1, which is what we are coordinating with this amendment. The proposal for a law addresses non-compliance with the Constitution, since the Constitutional Court has decided that the eighth indent of Article 59a of the Energy Law was inconsistent with the Constitution because the legislator did not provide for the payment of the appropriate monetary allowance for the period from the actual use of the real estate for the construction of the energy infrastructure to the issue of a decision on the decommissioning or establishment of the service for the public benefit or the acquisition of the right to own property in the insolvency proceedings. This unconstitutionality is being eliminated in this novel. The draft law is also in line with the State Aid Guidelines for the Environment and Energy 2014-2020. Among other substantive supplements to the Energy Act is the reduction of the threshold for providing support in the form of a buy-out from one megawatt to 500 kilowatts, where the Energy Act is being harmonised and based on the introduction of a renewable energy support scheme. An important addition should also be mentioned, which provides that before decisions are taken at the assemblies of the electricity distribution companies for which SDH is responsible, the Minister responsible for Energy shall be given an opinion. This is not about the issue of consensus, which would actually be unacceptable and would interfere with the competence of SDH and would also be inconsistent with the principles of ownership separation; however, it is some express opinion of the Minister responsible for the systematic management of this area. In the current practice of separate management of Sodo by the government and the department of one and the electricity distribution companies by SDH, on the other hand, communication between the two operators has proved necessary, which is also the objective of this amendment. Strengthening this communication and establishing a more synchronized operation is the purpose of this solution. It has also been shown in practice that there have been frequent difficulties in relations between Eles and the electricity distribution companies and that the law introduces the competence of uniform management and is granted to the system operator. From a technical point of view, this solution is most appropriate, ensures more rational management, in particular in terms of cost-effectiveness; it is also advocated by the profession. In the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, we will support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u9	Mr Daniel Krivec, Member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! We have before us the Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Energy Law. Again, as has already been pointed out, after a reduced procedure, without a broader debate. We all expected the Energy Concept of Slovenia to be adopted before the changes in energy laws, but that is not the case. Most of the amendments to the Energy Law have been brought to the attention of the European Union. It has been pointed out that we will receive a reminder if we do not regulate our legislation; therefore, the key purpose of this law, at least on the ground, was the transposition of directives that have not yet been properly transposed and the elimination of non-compliance with the rules of the European Union. This also takes into account the decision of the Constitutional Court to draw attention to the non-conformity of property rights in the disqualification procedure which was in force in the law. The law also coordinates the new guidelines for state aid for the environment and energy for the period 2014-2020, where it sets a threshold for a guaranteed purchase of up to 500 kilowatts of power to power plants, before being one megawatt. Moreover, this law brought some new additions that were not announced or expected. It is the payment of primary regulation in the system, which to some extent is also likely to cover losses at the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj. Another issue is the Minister's previous opinion on decisions in the electricity companies' assemblies, which is also not in line with existing legislation on corporate governance. The biggest problem, however, was the amendment you adopted on the committee where the proposed payment of fees and fees was to be paid by the concessionaire in the case of new facilities, which should be set at a maximum of up to 14 % of the electricity sales revenue. We have warned on the Committee that this must be defined, that it is primarily new objects, above the power of 10 megawatts, but the coalition has not listened and the amendment has remained in the form it is. This means, from a legal point of view, that it can also interfere with concessions that have been granted, and that is why it has also been pointed out by communities and local communities that this law is likely to be vetoed in the State Council. This retroactive action in the rights of concessionaires is inadmissible. The vote that took place on the committee was unnecessary, as the intention of the proposed amendments was that it was assistance in the construction of new buildings, but not that it interfered with the situation in this area backwards. That is why we will not support this law in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, on its behalf Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a second consideration of the proposal for a new Energy Law, which lays down legal bases for a clearer definition of obligations for energy market participants and eliminates some inconsistencies. The novelty brings new payable primary regulation, which power plants connected to the transmission network must now implement. The primary regulation service is intended to ensure that the regulatory area is at any moment balanced between production and consumption, including in the event of failures of production units or larger consumers. Primary regulation will be carried out by those power plants which will be selected at the tendering of the system operator. At this very point, most of the concerns were heard at the parent’s working body meeting when it came to additional financial assistance to the Šostanj Termoelectrica. We have also warned the competent minister of these concerns in our parliamentary group at the time of the creation of the law, but at the same time we were wondering whether this would be known on the stand of the final customers. The Minister of Infrastructure has assured us that this is not a new circuit for the financing of TES and that the service will not be known at the checkpoints. At the same time, our country is one rare country that has not yet regulated primary regulation and therefore Eles is unable to order primary regulation services where necessary. At the meeting of the committee, the director of Elesa also informed us that hydroelectric plants are most suitable for the implementation of primary regulation and that the only power plant that cannot provide this service is the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. Therefore, in the Desus Group, we are more surprised by the opposition to a certain part of the policy to the further construction of the hydroelectric power plant chain in the Central Sava, as seen in the last two years. There are several other amendments to the bill, such as the need to obtain the opinion of the Energy Minister before the assemblies of the electricity distribution companies for which the Slovenian State Holding is responsible, although this will not be binding. The novelty will also reduce the threshold for the provision of aid to renewable power plants and to independent production units for the production of heat and electricity in the form of a guaranteed purchase. The vote of Members and Members of the Desus Group will not be uniform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u13	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, on its behalf, Mr Jožef Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Instead of the introduction, colleagues and colleagues, let me remind you that already in March 2007, the European Union, 11 years ago, adopted the so-called energy-climate package. This was a commitment of three times twenty, 20-20-20. The aim was to cut emissions by 20% by Member States, increase renewable energy by 20% and increase energy efficiency by 20%, and by 2020; we have two more years to go. The public debate on the Energy Law novel, which we are considering today, was concluded last March. Today, almost a year later, the proposal is being addressed by the National Assembly. In the New Slovenia Group, we wonder why the Government needs so much time to submit the bill to the parliamentary procedure. Is it a coincidence or a deliberate pre-election decision? In the New Slovenia Group, we welcome the alignment with the Guidelines on State aid for the environment and energy for the period 2014-2020, as these guidelines reduce the threshold for the provision of support in the form of a guaranteed purchase of electricity from renewable energy sources and the co-generation of heat and electricity from one megawatt to 500 kilowatts. However, we cannot agree with the proposed Article 8 of the bill or the amendment of Article 74 of the current law. In our view, by incorporating primary regulation into payment services, the government has made it possible to provide additional funding to the Šostanj Termoelectrica. The Minister and also the representative of Eles insist that this will not be known on the positions; Members of New Slovenia believe that at present perhaps not, but in the long term we can. Every euro we invest in TES is unacceptable or unacceptable to our group. Colleagues and colleagues, if the state of Nova Ljubljanska banka is synonymous with the bank hole, then TES 6 is synonymous with the energy hole. Unfortunately, both holes have to be patched up by taxpayers. We, New Slovenia, will no longer allow this. In Slovenia, we need to ensure reliable, safe and competitive energy supply in a sustainable way, through the transition to a low-carbon society and thus an enabling environment for the necessary activities, investments and quality energy services for the population and the economy. Renewable energy sources provide more environmentally friendly, cleaner and, above all, sustainable energy compared to the use of fossil fuels. In Slovenia we have a relatively good potential for renewable energy in all forms – in the energy of water, wind, biomass and sun. Due to stricter criteria for determining the environmentally acceptable flow and other difficulties in placing infrastructure facilities in the space, the number of small hydropower plants does not increase or the location of former mills and saws placed at favourable locations for the exploitation of hydropower potential are not exploited. The use of water energy can be a good and reliable element of the economic development of Slovenia. Construction of small hydropower plants opens new jobs that have a major impact on GDP, as over 90% of the investment value is made in Slovenia. The draft Energy Concept of Slovenia and the environmental report, which we are waiting for, is finally in the public domain by 2 March 2018, and the public hearing was held yesterday, states that by 2020 we are expected to reach 25% from renewable energy sources. At such a pace, dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, unfortunately we will not achieve this goal. The issue of the construction of small hydro power plants has been pointed out by Members of the New Slovenia Group in the past year, citing an urgent meeting of the Committee. The section agreed that putting infrastructure in a space that was impossible and too demanding. The Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Infrastructure have only two months to find ways to further simplify the procedures necessary for obtaining authorisations and carry out additional activities that will help increase the share of energy production from small hydro power plants in order to achieve renewable energy targets. In the New Slovenia Group, we cannot go beyond the fact that the government wants to provide additional funding by means of a bill, so we will not support the proposal. We will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u15	The text is given by the Left Party, on her behalf by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! Let me start by saying that in Levica we will not support this and such a marriage. The shortest explanation of this law would be lying and stealing. They lie about purposes and steal the future, especially Maribor, and destroy the Drava Power Plants. Article in today’s Evening Meal – Instead of money for municipalities for the sixth block in Šostjanje: At the proposal of the Modern Centre Party, Members will decide on Thursday to reduce concessions paid by hydroelectric power plants to municipalities. It's another article, but we've had enough. That's it for a while. It has already been seen that, in fact, the story, when a European directive is being adopted, is also abused by a fugitive from the Constitutional Court, so that something can be quietly brought in. The Devil is always in detail, or God is in detail, said Mies van der Rohe. We have problems with TES6 and in this mandate we should answer the question of what to do with TES6; in fact, this has not been done. As early as 2014, the United Left had a public opinion on energy in this Chamber. The promise was that we would get the concept of 2015. We all need energy, in every approximately normal country and society the energy lobby doesn't write laws and concepts itself, it's the responsibility of this house, these bytes. Looks like someone decided to destroy Drava's power plants. The energy potential has already been destroyed to a large extent, and obviously now Podravje needs to be destroyed. Of course, we also need a certain degree of solidarity in energy. We're not Styrians and Styrians in this way autarically localistic. We also need some positive discrimination to get more, if there is a developmental backlog; not that this is happening in the way of exhaustion, in which case of exhaustion of the Drava power plants. Most of you have probably already forgotten that at about a third of the terms of office we had all the MEPs and MEPs from Maribor with the surrounding area – I am the only one in the opposition, the other all in the coalition – we had some joint statement that we would no longer allow the exhaustion of the Drava power plants of Maribor and that some transitional policies on the transfer of HSE headquarters to Maribor would be fulfilled. Then what happened? At the Styria Chamber of Commerce we had a meeting and a member of the Modern Centre Party started some legal footnotes because the SS were beaten in Ljubljana; and there was nothing in all of this. I can honestly say that I slept a little more that night because the e-mails were laufing 500 an hour. I will read only one of them, quote: “Please think about living in a local environment, which, by this proposal, you deny the necessary resources for the development of infrastructure. If you want to do something for citizens, voters in the local environment, stop such a proposal immediately." I completely agree with that. If we touch on primary regulation, if you have listened well to Mr Mervar, he said that we have a very good, very stable energy system. On the basis of how the government is pursuing this, and in particular the Modern Centre Party, one would think that we are just about to die. And we have this system for non-payable primary regulation. Let's stop messing around. Let's be responsible. You're kind of wondering what Maribor is, what we are. Or are we now some pasaluk that will be milked, Cerar needed a third of the mandate to approach us in Maribor at all, under the rule of Alenka Bratušek, some decisions on development assistance to Maribor and the region – the law – exactly, Alenka is speaking, indeed – and it has been forgotten that this is no longer the case. And there was one last call that got us beat up with the Yanshe government. At our end, it seems to me that we must ask ourselves, who else are we going to give our approach to politics? Such a law, the whole opposition essentially agrees here, cannot be adopted in a reduced procedure. Yesterday I spoke to an ambassador who said he was reading – and SMC extended, so will I – a history of American politics, when one president made a whole series of changes just before the end of his term, and Jefferson, who overcame those changes, flew. At that time, the President of their Supreme Court said that if something was not done, such legislation would not be adopted at the end of the term of office. Let's get you guys together, go home. In the Modern Centre Party, you are already looking for a lot of new chess, here you have surpassed all your policy so far, give the next government and coalition, in which I seriously hope that Levica will be able to start doing some serious work; but not that half the mandate will be done with shit behind you, then the European Presidency, which we are not ready for, will be the next crisis. It's extremely irresponsible of you. We will, of course, vote against it. If there's not enough sense in the National Assembly, I hope they vote veto in the State Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u17	No, you weren't very polite, but still. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th and 20th agendas, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking up with the fourth item of the agenda. We're moving on to 12. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on the registration of the actual use of public roads and public railway infrastructures within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure mag. Klemen's thrust.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u18	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The bill establishes rules and a system for recording the actual use of land belonging to public road infrastructure, namely state and municipal roads, and public rail infrastructure in a land disaster. In particular, due to the mass valuation of real estate, all such data must be properly covered and recorded in due time. To this end, a new law on the registration of real estate was prepared, with which this law is directly linked. The adoption of this law is primarily needed for the purpose of carrying out mass valuations of real estates, as it will contribute to better quality data on the value of real estate. Data will also be useful in regulating the real-law relations of the land-owned infrastructure. The law regulates the jurisdiction and method of recording data and the protection of landowners' rights. The proposal does not refer to the regulation of property relations relating to public road and rail infrastructure; however, infrastructure managers, in particular municipal road managers, will be able to take an easier approach to regulating real-estate and property relations. The established records will show the exact location of the land belonging to it, irrespective of the land plot boundary. The draft law also lays the legal basis for operators to be able to obtain the personal data they need to regulate yet unregulated land-booking relations with land owners on which public infrastructure operates. Data will be taken from the actual land use records of public road and public rail infrastructures into the Earth's cadastral. All competent infrastructure managers will, however, provide data in relation to the infrastructure they manage in the home record. The data will be handled by the controllers who will be responsible for the technical coordination procedure, which is, prior to the administrative procedure, any claims made by landowners. The record will be established in organisational and information terms within three months of the entry into force of the law. For data capture, the deadline is 1 June 2019. This deadline follows the timeline foreseen by the new Real Estate Registration Act. The local communities also understand the need to register and see the possibility of facilitating land-related property relations. In accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the third examination of the law be carried out at the same meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u19	The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 37th session. 1. 2018 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law on the registration of actual land use of public road and public rail infrastructure submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. In a supplementary explanation, on behalf of the applicant, the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič, explained that the draft law establishes rules and a system for recording the actual use of land belonging to public road infrastructure and public railway infrastructure in a land disaster. These data are currently not properly recorded; in particular due to the mass valuation of real estate, all such data must be properly covered and recorded in due time. To this end, a new Real Estate Registration Act has been prepared which directly links the bill, which means that the adoption of this law is primarily due to the exercise of mass property valuations, as it will contribute to better quality property value data. Data will also be useful in regulating real estate and infrastructure relations. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that the service had given a written opinion on the proposal for a law, in which they had raised certain specific comments to each article, which were duly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. The opinion on the bill was also delivered by the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which supports and considers that the creation of a real land use record of public road and public rail infrastructure will also help to address the problem of the irregularity of ownership of categorised municipal and state roads running through private land. Several questions were raised in the debate. The question was also raised as to whether registration under this law constituted only a record of actual use or whether the implementation of the geodetic dose was envisaged. The opinion was expressed that, in the event of a geodetic dose, the time limit laid down was unattainable. The Minister of Infrastructure explained that the purpose of the bill is not to regulate ownership of legal relations, but only a record of actual use, which will not be administered by geodetic procedures, so there are no foreseeable processes of parceling. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition groups. He also voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u21	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, in its name Mrs Vojka Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! When preparing the first mass property valuation in the Republic of Slovenia, it was found that quality maintenance of the property mass valuation system required correct, relevant and current real estate data in public records that correspond to the actual situation. It was also found that there was a major problem with these land data belonging to public road or public rail infrastructure, even to the extent that in many cases the data in public real estate records, such as the Land Book, the Land Catastrophe, the Collective Catastrophe of Public Economic Infrastructure, were not even misled. At present, the official real estate records do not contain any indication that the land actually used is the land of public rail infrastructure; therefore, it cannot be established from an examination of the land book, the cadastral or the register of real estate that it is a property belonging to public rail or public road infrastructure. Moreover, in many cases, in particular the municipal public road infrastructure is not regulated or registered, nor is the ownership of the municipality on land belonging to public road infrastructure, nor is the land book registered the status of the built public goods. Therefore, in 2016 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia commissioned the Ministry of Infrastructure to provide a methodology for the recording of the actual use of public road and public rail infrastructure and in line with the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia operating a system for recording the actual use of municipal transport infrastructure. The latter is regulated by a new law on the registration of actual land use of public road and public rail infrastructure. The law establishes a system for registering actual land use of public road and public rail infrastructure, which will provide up-to-date official information on the actual use of public road and public rail infrastructure in the land disaster, while ensuring the protection of the rights of real estate owners, where data on actual use is changing. The system for recording the actual use of these land shall be established by means of a single information record established under the law by the Infrastructure Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia. The methodology, data model for record-keeping and exchange format shall be determined by the Slovenian Infrastructure Directorate and published on its website. However, the data in the record shall be established by the managers and maintained by the competent infrastructure managers. In this way, a comprehensive and uniform system for keeping records of actual land use of public road and public rail infrastructure is established. In the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, we will support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u23	The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u24	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The law establishes a system for registering actual land use of public road and public rail infrastructure, which will provide up-to-date information on actual land use in a land disaster. The existing road data bank, managed by the Infrastructure Directorate, contains only technical data on public roads and road installations, but not related land, in particular the Road Council, which is essential for determining the actual use of infrastructure. The bill is necessary for the implementation of mass evaluation, which we are aware of in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The law does not apply to the regulation of property law relations, but with regard to road and rail public infrastructures, operators, in particular municipal roads, will be able to take an easier approach to the regulation of real and property rights relations, since the established register will show the exact location of the land, irrespective of the boundaries of land plots. The most exposed municipalities are expected to provide additional funding for the planned additional liabilities to the municipalities as part of the calculation of the average and staffing support or the assistance of technical equipment. According to the proposaler, this is not a new task, as this activity falls within the management framework of actual municipal property. Let us now see how this is done in practice at local level. Each year, the municipality shall have a certain percentage of the appropriations for the cadastral and proprietary management of public road infrastructure in the budget, which is also shown further in the Development Programme Plan, which is an integral part of the budget for the future, for a period of five or even ten years. This law, however, requires recording up to 1. 6. 2019. The good year is until next June, it is an extremely short deadline, but we also know that this time it is only about recording. We understand that this year, they're not going to make a dent, they're going to make a video of a road body, which can only be done by a geometer. Especially in certain cases where there are cases where it is necessary to specify whether or not the road body interferes with the neighbouring border area. There's also a cadastral orthophoto. The only geometer can determine the actual real state. No official in any congregation will be able to appoint this. Only a geometer can do this. In view of the assessment that there are more than 23,000 kilometres of public roads that do not actually have regulated status, the question is, in fact, whether this good year is sufficient to determine the recording itself or whether it is possible to do so in this year; if this is actually real if there is a need for human resources, this means that the geometres are able to do so. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, the proposed Law on the Registration of the Real Use of Lands of Public Road and Public Railway Infrastructure will not be opposed. For example, we warn in practice that will require a lot of work, engagement, including the need for human resources, by geometry, and also by an increased cost scale, which is an absolute underestimated cost for Slovenia as a whole, with the estimated cost of a good two million.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u25	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, on its behalf Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Good-bye, everybody! In our country we know five actual land-uses that are regulated by different laws. The actual use for, for example, agricultural and forestry land is already regulated by the Agricultural Lands Act. The actual use of water land is regulated by the Water Act; however, the actual use of roads and railways is not yet regulated, which is introduced by this new law before us. Once, of course, this proposal for a law is adopted, the conditions will be laid down for the full implementation of Article 23 of the Real Estate Registration Act, which provides in the second paragraph that data on types of actual land-uses will be transmitted to the land-based cadastral administrators of the individual types of actual land-uses managed under the law. For example, public road infrastructure managers are Dars, municipalities; public railway infrastructure is the company Slovenske železnice –Infrastruktura, d. o. o. It should be stressed that the law does not interfere with ownership of the legal relationship, but merely with the recording of the actual use. This will be regulated by a specific methodology, which operators, including municipalities, will be able to use, and will be prepared by the Slovenian Infrastructure Directorate. Since it is only an implementing law that will not change ownership and size of parcels, we will support the proposal in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u27	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, on its behalf, Mr Jožef Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Secretary of State, dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We are considering a proposal for a new law on the registration of the actual use of public road and public rail infrastructure, which is another proposal for laws that are intended to be the basis for the implementation of the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates. Do we really need another new marriage?Oh, my God! If the government insists on adopting this law, however, let it give us a valid reason to adopt it. The adoption of a special law only to transfer data from the actual land use record of public road and public rail infrastructure to the Land Cadaster and to employ ten public servants at the Infrastructure Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia is unacceptable to our Group. What helps us to transfer data from one record to another if we do not have a solved underlying problem; the main problem is ownership of public roads. In order for the government to fully implement the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate and then the Real Estate Tax Act, it must solve the key problem – ownership of public roads. According to the State Council, there are as many as 23,000 kilometres of categorized roads undetected or unregulated. 23,000 kilometers! This is about 57% of the total public road network. The solution to this problem in this proposal is a sufficient reason for us to support the proposal unanimously. We believe that this is a very worrying information which the Government is not aware of or has not given sufficient attention to this issue in this mandate. In the New Slovenia Group, we cannot agree with the government's proposal, which imposes new financial burdens again on the municipalities. We note that the imposition of new financial burdens on municipalities is unacceptable unless they are provided with additional financial resources for the implementation of the bill, i.e. new tasks. In Slovenia we have 212 municipalities, which have different size of infrastructure and different order of affairs in this area. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the adoption of the bill on the registration of the actual use of public road and public rail infrastructure does not solve the key problem, so the regulation of ownership of public roads, so we will not support the bill. We will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u29	The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats, in its name mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u30	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on the registration of actual land use of public road and public rail infrastructure establishes rules and a system for the recording of actual land use belonging to public road infrastructure, state and municipal roads and public railway infrastructure; it will allow for the establishment of a real situation in a land disaster. Indeed, at the first mass valuation of real estate, it was found that it was necessary to have correct and current data on real estate in public records that corresponded to the actual situation. The law also regulates the protection of landowners' rights, but does not apply to the regulation of property relations relating to public road or public rail infrastructure. However, operators, in particular municipal road managers, will be able to take an easier approach to regulating real and property relations, as the established records will show the exact location of the land in question, irrespective of land plot boundaries. During the legislative process, the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups removed the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. The law is also supported by the Commission of the State Council. Because we believe that the law regulates, in a more appropriate way, the recording of the actual land use of public road and public rail infrastructure, as it has been in practice so far, we will support it in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u31	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of agenda items 19 and 20. I'm breaking up the 12th item of the agenda. We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY, IT IS ON THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE PUBLIC FINANCING LEGISLATION The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance mag. Sasha the Badger.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u32	Dear Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! The proposed Act amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act definitively transposes Council Directive 2011/85/EU on requirements relating to the budgetary framework of the Member States into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Within the framework of the European Union, a package of legislative proposals for five regulations and directives was adopted in November 2011, aimed at strengthening the fiscal discipline of the Member States and their economic governance. The Directive has been partially transposed into the Slovenian legal order by the Fiscal Rule Act; it will be legally implemented by the Act under consideration today, as the Fiscal Rule Act, in several provisions relating to medium-term fiscal policy planning, is moving towards regulation in the law governing public finances. This sets out two documents that will give much greater attention to country priority planning. The first is the National Development Policy Programme, which contains development guidelines and government priorities that are crucial for development. The Government shall adopt it every year until 30 November. So far, these plans have been drawn up in the spring of the preparation of the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme, and in the context of the proposed procedure, the time for the preparation of the budget documents for the next four years will begin in the autumn when the October ministries prepare priorities from their fields. On the basis of these services which are responsible for development and the Ministry of Finance, they shall draw up a proposal for a national development policy programme adopted by the Government in November. In addition to the key priorities and development guidelines, the document contains guidelines for the envisaged structural reforms and other institutional changes; at the same time, at the same time, the requirement that the financial implications be consistent with the constraints arising from the Fiscal Rule Act. The National Development Policy Programme will thus become a key document, which will form the basis for drawing up financial plans for budgetary users. The second document is the Medium-term Fiscal Strategy, which is a government document, which identifies and outlines the direction of fiscal policy over the medium term. It contains a number of elements that serve as a basis for establishing the appropriateness of the consolidation of public finances. At the request of the European Commission, an obligation is added to the fiscal strategy to include also qualitative and quantitative descriptions of the measures to achieve the country's target balance, in addition to the analysis of sensitivity under different assumptions of gross domestic product growth and interest rates and the responsibility of the Minister of Finance to prepare the framework. The Public Finance Act should also provide for measures where medium-term balance is not implemented in accordance with the Fiscal Rule Act or if Slovenia receives a recommendation or call from the Council for derogation from the provisions of the Stability and Growth Pact. The proposed law on such cases confers on the Minister of Finance a mandate whereby, for the first time, he may authorise the taking of commitments solely on the basis of his prior consent; for the second time, he proposes to the Government the adoption of rules to reduce the expenditure of the State sector's budgets; or for the third time, prohibit the allocation of spending rights. The same Article also lays down the obligation to prepare a proposal to amend the framework, if necessary, in order to ensure respect for the medium-term balance of public finances. The proposed law also provides that the Fiscal Council must carry out a two-year analysis of the quality or impartiality of the forecasts of macroeconomic aggregates prepared by Umar. This is a requirement of the directive; however, the proposed amendment follows the comments of the Fiscal Council in a manner that is still in line with the Commission's requirements. The proposed law also provides for the calculation and use of surpluses of institutional units of the State sector, while at the same time establishing, on the basis of the explicit requirement of the Fiscal Rule Act, in which cases the founder of the institutional unit may require the payment of surpluses to the founder's budget. As a consequence, this regime is deleted from the law on the implementation of budgets. In the light of what we have said, we have also adapted accordingly the provisions of the law setting out the content of the budgetary memorandum, while at the same time setting a transitional period for the preparation of the most demanding documents. The comments of the Association of Municipalities of Slovenia in the work relating to the competence of the Minister of Finance or the Government to interfere with the amount of expenditure of municipalities were taken into account by amendment; whereas the provision on the possibility of increasing the assets of the institutional units of the sector is not applicable to the municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, given that the proposed law is fully in line with key stakeholders, I propose that you support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u33	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Ms Vojka Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Report of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Finance. At its 47th meeting, the Committee considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Finance Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. In addition to the draft law, the Committee received a letter from the Fiscal Council, an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion from the Association of Slovene municipalities and an opinion from the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the individual article of the bill have been tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legislative Service, Umarj and the Fiscal Council attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained the objectives and purpose of the draft law and presented the main solutions relating mainly to the transposition of Council Directive 2011/85/EU on requirements relating to the budgetary frameworks of the Member States. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the comments made in the written opinion were duly taken into account in the amendments tabled. In its opening remarks, the representative of the Council of State presented the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance and said that the State Council supports the bill and advocates the adoption of a new law on public finances as soon as possible. The representative of the Fiscal Council initially said that he had some substantive comments, which were in line with the Ministry of Finance and are included in the proposed amendments. In the introduction, Director Umarja pointed out that the deadlines for the preparation of the autumn and spring economic forecast had been reduced. The debate raised the issue of the transposition of the directive and the delay in this and whether this proposal addressed the delay. A question was also raised regarding the substantive solutions to the draft law and the possible interference with the powers of the Securities Market Agency and the Insurance Supervisory Agency. Questions were raised regarding the drafting of a new Public Finance Act. During the discussion, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance answered the questions raised and provided further clarifications. At the same time, she said that the bill would put an end to the delay and would not punish Slovenia. It also clarified the outstanding issues in the drafting of the new Public Finance Act. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Desus and SD. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u35	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, in its name mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u36	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee's report to the Proposal for a Law on Public Finance mentioned only what is in some way very important for this law – the transposition of this Directive is more than four years late. 31. 12. 2013 This Directive should be adopted in Slovenian public finances. The Public Finance Act is more than four years late and the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not done so in this four-year term. And since Slovenia has not transposed the directive into its legal order, the European Commission is suing us. 7 000 euros a day over 4 years is worth more than 11 million months. This is how this government does its homework, which it is committed to actually doing. However, since this law does not include provisions relating to fiscal discipline relating to medium-term planning, budgetary harmonisation and so on, the indirect damage to state finances is even greater than no one can possibly calculate. This is now an emergency exit when, at the last moment, this government wants to include in our legal order a directive that should have been included four years ago; and it has not actually done so. With regard to the content itself, it is difficult to contradict anything about this directive and the issue of responsibility arises. A number of questions have been raised on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy on responsibility. Among other things, I can repeat this because it has not been answered how many times the Minister of Finance has written a law on public finances to the Government. It's written with a signature. And why is there no Public Finance Act? And why, because it is not available, less transparent public finances and therefore inadequate supervision or less thorough supervision of the ministry are being exercised, especially there is no substantive control over the use of the resources of individual ministries; any, from education, from the Ministry of Labour and so on. Is this budget money, the taxpayer's money actually spent economically? And because this does not appear to be in the interest of this government to be substantively vigilant over the use and control of budgetary money. This is the result of the government's financial operations. I have not received any information from the Secretary of State as to whether the Public Finance Act has actually been sent by the Ministry, by the Minister to the Government, a whole law on public finances, which should have been made years ago. Who is responsible for this – the Minister of Finance or the President of the Government? Nor do we have any information on how many times the President of the Government has asked the Minister to pass the whole law on public finances. Neither do we have any information on why ministries do not comply with this law on public finances; it is not harmonised. It is likely that the interest of some, particularly those who do not want transparent public finances, who do not want greater and more in-depth supervision, is greater than those who want order in public finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u37	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, on her behalf Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good-bye to all of you! Almost every draft law requires certain financial implications, which are largely dependent on the State budget, and therefore, when planning an assessment of the financial implications foreseen for the implementation of an individual measure or solution, it is important to ensure that those remain within the financial framework as set out in the fiscal rule. Public finances are therefore complex and complex materials, requiring clear and concrete rules in the formulation of the country's public financial policy. A recent survey has revealed that our country ranks quite high after the transparency of the budgetary process. Among the recommendations specifically implemented for Slovenia are the earlier public consideration of the budgetary memorandum, more clear information for the public on the government budget proposal and a more informative report on the implementation of the budget. There is also some recommendation in external control and audit, which exposes the external evaluation of the efficiency of the Court of Auditors' work, and much more shortcomings in public participation. In the Desus Group, we feel that there is never enough caution and care when it comes to spending budgetary money. The budgetary discipline must apply to all equally, regardless of which budgetary user is discussed. In order to make the budget as efficient as possible and in particular in accordance with the required rules of the European Union, the proposed amendment builds on certain legislative provisions. This will give us an additional two budget documents that define the government's priorities and follow the Slovenian Development Strategy. The implementation of the European Directive thus required a whole new chapter which would further strengthen fiscal policy. Members and Members of the Desus Group will be unanimously supported by the proposed amendment. As we have already said, when it comes to monitoring the use of budgetary resources, we are of the opinion that there should be somewhat stricter and clearer rules, as there is obviously room for progress, and it would also be worth considering the adoption of a completely new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u39	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, on its behalf, Mr Jožef Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The new Public Finance Act was submitted to public hearing on 29 January 2016. So it's been two years. The public hearing took place until the end of February 2016, which was concluded almost two years ago. We in New Slovenia have engaged our expert committee, our experts who understand public finances, have gathered comments and have prepared for a serious debate on such a serious law as the new Public Finance Act. Nothing. We are now at the end of our term of office, and if this new law on public finances were to come to the table today, it would be rejected because such important laws are also valid for some others, they do not deal with 5 minutes before the elections, when in fact the coalition is de facto gone. This is irresponsible of this government, and it is a very simple decision – if we do not have a modernised law on public finances, then we cannot have regulated public finances. This is a fact and this is a key topic today. This content of the micro-amendment introduced by this Proposal for a Law on amendments and additions to the Public Finance Act is necessary, but we would like to see a new law on public finances adopted in this mandate, but when the time is right. Just one example, which is excruciating, we have adopted the Fiscal Rule Act, which is where we defined the Fiscal World. The operationalisation of the functioning of the Fiscal Council must be regulated and regulated by a new law on public finances; but this is not the case. The fiscal world operates in its own way, and I hope it works well; but there is no legal basis in the Public Finance Act. In the New Slovenia Group, we would like to draw only attention to the opinion of the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, in which it pointed out the possibility of interfering with the autonomy of local self-government. If the government demanded a reduction of the expenditure in the forecasts, it is their view that it would also allow for an intervention in the already implemented budget. The Community also draws attention to some other ambiguities. While the law imposes the obligation of medium-term fiscal policy planning, it establishes the obligation to draw up two new documents, for the first time, the State Development Policy Programme, adopted by the Government by the end of November of the current year and contains the government's development guidelines and priorities, which are based on the Slovenian Development Strategy, which are crucial for the development of Slovenia. Secondly, the Medium-term Fiscal Strategy, represented by the Joint Framework for State Budgets and the Stability Programme. Due to the above and many other reasons that we have not mentioned due to lack of time, we cannot support the proposal for a new Law on Public Finance in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u41	The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats, in its name mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u42	Thank you very much again for your word, Madam President. When we had to introduce constitutional restrictions in Slovenia in the form of a fiscal rule, these severely limited the possibilities of the country and other public finances. Let us recall that these restrictions are a mandatory reduction in public debt, a levelling of the budget and a demand for public debt to be reduced below 60% of gross domestic product and that the surpluses created during this period are earmarked primarily for debt reduction. An important part of the changes introduced is also related to budgetary planning. This has become two-year and is taking place in several stages where, on the basis of macroeconomic forecasts, budgetary frameworks and expenditure ceilings are first established, and expenditure and revenue are then allocated accordingly. The Fiscal Council has also been introduced, which has an important role to play in this process, mainly in order to assess the compatibility of the budgetary documents with the principles of the European Stability Pact and the input data involved in providing them. As a result, the long-term budgetary planning process, which makes the country's space very dynamic, unfortunately, also means huge amounts of material and short-term decision-making. Budgeting has become the process in which governments have gained the most power, and these must also take strict account of the forecasts of financial and fiscal institutions. The purpose of all of this is to keep public finances manageable and not to find themselves again in a situation a few years ago, when many no longer believed that Slovenia would know and be able to overcome the crisis without foreign troikas. All countries of the European Union are bound by the Directive and other large-scale rules to adapt their public financial systems to these constraints. Since the adoption of the fiscal rule further in Slovenia, we plan budget documents in accordance with the provisions of the European directives, but we have not yet transposed them into national legislation. As a result, the European Commission has already initiated procedures against Slovenia and the adoption of this law will also eliminate this delay. The adoption of the proposal thus legitimises the way in which budgets are adopted, as we have been accustomed to in recent years. The phases and procedures for budgeting and the way in which data on economic developments have been generated, which have in recent years become the basis for the formulation of all public finances related to decisions, shall be determined. The deadlines for the submission and consideration of proposals for individual budgetary documents and the role of institutions such as the Fiscal Council and Umar shall be laid down in individual stages of the design, implementation and budgetary control. The changes relate not only to the state budget but also to other public funds and cash, including municipal budgets, which contain a significant part of public money. Ladies and gentlemen, in this mandate, the way of managing public finances has been greatly changed in many ways. We would like to discuss the proposal for a more comprehensive revision of the Public Finance Act instead of just basic adaptations to the European Directive's legislation today; but this seems to be a project that will have to wait for the next call of the National Assembly. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Finance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u43	The word is given by the Left Messenger Group, in her name Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, chairman. The European Union is a project of the nuclear states of capitalism on the old continent, which ensures their hegemony, their profits, the smooth functioning of the capitalist apparatus. When this order was threatened, they called in a troika, a terrible threesome — the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund. The Troika has deprived working people, citizens, particularly the countries of the European periphery, of the right to democratic decision-making and imposed on them the resolution of the crisis, the crisis of capitalism which has not been created by working people and has been strongly accelerated by bankers on the shoulders of the working class. And when these citizens and citizens say - not when they say - democracy is ours, we will not pay for your crisis; these countries of the periphery, in the first place Greece, have been destroyed. Destroyed. The introduction of a fiscal rule should prevent such a scenario in us, the Republic of Slovenia. But will it be true? The fiscal rule may not have brought us the troika of the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund; but the Troika of the Government, the Fiscal Council and Umar is therefore no better – the troika is still a threesome! According to the proposed law, these authorities lay down a framework; the National Assembly and the elected body are left with only beautiful corrections. At the same time, any political rule, including fiscal rule, shall be applied selectively. We can look at military spending, for example. The European Commission requires all countries, including Slovenia, to reduce the public sector. And if we look at the Stability Programme, we will see that in 2016 our public spending amounted to 4.5% of GDP. That is how far our public sector has gone, i.e. the salaries of public servants, pensions and social benefits. According to government plans, the public sector is expected to shrink to 41.9% of GDP by 2020, but this projected saving does not apply to the whole public sector, no. These restrictions apply to the health system, to pensions and to education; they do not apply to military expenditure. Very concretely, Cerar's government, i.e. Slovenia, incorporated us into the European military union or PESCO in December. One of the main conditions for inclusion in the PESCO is that the state's military budget is actually increasing every year and that the expenditure on arms procurement also increases every year. So fiscal rule applies to health, education, pensions and social expenditure; however, it does not apply to arms purchases and subsidisation of foreign military industrial complexes. On the one hand, Cerar's government will reduce the scope of the public sector as a whole, but within this it will push in military bureaucrats and arms purchases. We see where he's taking such a fiscal rule. The development of the state and the welfare of citizens is limited, while the repressive apparatus is being strengthened. Among other things, in order to build two battalion groups that do not contribute to the defence of our country and contribute to NATO’s military operations abroad, they are spending 1.2 billion euros. That's as much money as it's worth a whole other track. 1.2 billion euros will forever be lost, for example, for investments in medical equipment, in science, in the development of civil technologies. We do not have this kind of policy in Levika, and we will also vote against it in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u45	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, in its name Private Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Honorable representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering a proposal for a new Law on Public Finance, with which we will finally implement the Council Directive on budgetary requirements of the Member States in the Slovenian legal order. The European Union has already adopted a set of legislative proposals for five regulations and directives in 2011 aimed at strengthening the fiscal responsibility of the Member States and strengthening their economic governance. Slovenia has already adopted the Constitutional Act amending Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in 2013, which means that at constitutional level it has committed itself to balancing the revenue and expenditure of budgets in the medium term without any debt or that the revenue will exceed the expenditure. Then, in 2015, by a two-thirds majority of all Members, we adopted the Fiscal Rule Act, which sets out in more detail the implementation of Article 148 of the Constitution of Slovenia. In this already adopted legislation, most of the provisions of the Directive have been implemented and the proposed amendments to the Public Finance Act, which contain the obligation of medium-term fiscal policy planning, still need to be adopted for final implementation. To this end, two new documents are envisaged, namely the State Development Policy Programme, which will include government priorities that are crucial for the development of Slovenia and also stem from the Slovenian Development Strategy. It is therefore a document that will provide a basis for the preparation of financial plans for budgetary users in the future. The second new document, however, is the Medium-term Fiscal Strategy, which defines the direction of fiscal policy over the medium term and contains a set of elements that serve as a basis for establishing the appropriateness of consolidation of public finances. In the process of adopting this novel, we were also informed of the comments made by the Fiscal Council. In our Group of Members, we have advocated that the comments of the Fiscal Council be taken into account as they will contribute to greater transparency and credibility of the budgetary documents. At the same time, they also provide greater transparency and increase the possibility of compliance with fiscal rules. We are pleased that the Ministry of Finance and the Fiscal Council have examined all the comments together and are adequately included in the draft law. It is very important that Slovenia achieves a high level of transparency in the budgetary process. On the basis of a recent survey conducted by the NGO International Budget Partnership in Washington, D.C., recently published, Slovenia took 17th place among 115 countries. The global average of the budgetary transparency indicator is 42 points. For Slovenia, the budgetary transparency indicator increased from 68 to 69 of the 100 possible points compared to 2015 when the survey was last carried out. Despite the high assessment, further opportunities for improvement have also been identified here, particularly in efforts to increase budget participation and to set targets for the targeted draft budget. In part, budgetary transparency will increase according to our assessment also on the basis of the solutions brought by this novel. Here I am primarily referring to the two new documents I have already mentioned and also to the public publication of information on whether the country will be a sub-potential or sub-potential level of GDP in the coming year. On the basis of these solutions and decisions of the Fiscal Rule Act, the provisions of the Constitution will follow that the country's revenue and expenditure will be balanced in the medium term, without any debt; or that the revenue will exceed the expenditure. Since the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Finance Act will allow for the provision of a legal framework for the effective management of public finances and allow for macroeconomic stability, sustainable and stable national economic development, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will support this proposal. Finally, I should like to commend the Ministry of Finance for all the efforts they have made in the drafting of the new Public Finance Act, although unfortunately it has not received sufficient political support to submit it to the National Assembly already in this mandate. I further call on them to continue their efforts, as we urgently need a new, updated law on public finances, a law which in some way regulates all those who have direct or direct links to public finances. Because the old marriage has an anniversary, if I'm not mistaken, in 1999. However, it is likely that the time will be right for such a debate at the beginning of the next term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u47	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u48	Havela is a beautiful, respectable president. I do not oppose the amendment proposed by the coalition, which transforms the word “scenario” in plural form into the word “scenarios” in uniform form. It's just this amendment. Formally, it also meets all the provisions that it is. However, I would like, Mr President, because I am just speaking, to complement where I ended earlier when I said there was no information on how this law traveled from the Ministry of Finance to the Government and who is responsible for this delay. During the meeting, I received a letter from the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mag. Saša Jazbec – this letter was sent to me by mail yesterday, but I have not received it yet today – in which it is very clear what the Ministry of Finance has done in 2016, 2017 and 2018. Among other things, it says that she was 25. Ten. 2017 the decision taken to address this law at the top of the coalition, which decided to prepare only amendments and additions to the Public Finance Act, which meant the transposition of the Directive. In other words, the top of the coalition has determined that no more urgent law, a comprehensive Public Finance Act, which would ensure greater transparency and even greater control of public finances, will be in this mandate. The top of the coalition – Mr Cerar, Mr Erjavec and Mr Židan, I understand that this is the top of a coalition that they are not interested in regulating their finances. And here we can also look for responsibility why we do not have a law on public finances and why we have an action by the European Commission for about EUR 11 million, EUR 7 000 a day. It is likely that now that the law is passed, the European authorities will decide in some way, but that Slovenia will not pay, it does not say so anywhere. However, it is also the credibility of a country which is four years behind the transposition of a directive because it is simply a bear and does not want to take a comprehensive action, a law on public finances, which would include this directive; now only the old Public Finance Act is being amended. And for this is the top of the coalition – Mr Cerar, Mr Erjavec and Mr Židan, I understand that this is the top of the coalition. I apologize if anyone else is in charge of this coalition or if someone else is the top of the coalition, then I apologize to these gentlemen, perhaps they are somewhere else. And now we are responsible for the lack of transparency of public finances and for the potential obligation of Slovenia of EUR 11 million and for the indirect damage that can actually happen. This is like the conclusion of this coalition in the field of public finances, the conclusion because there will soon be elections, because there are likely to be some other essential laws in the area of public finances that will not be adopted; but this is the conclusion. The conclusion that after four years we will adopt, or you will adopt, the necessary directive so that we will not pay the penalty of EUR 11 million, and the rest nothing that should be done and what is in the normative programme of this coalition or these governments, because there are probably the same gentlemen in this government as they are at the top of the coalition – Mr Cerar, Mr Erjavec and Mr Židan. This is, if you want, for some famous; for other infamous conclusion of this coalition, this top of the coalition and this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u49	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag has the floor. Sasha Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to give a replica to this debate by Mr Shirtzl. The coalition took the first step towards transposition of the directive by adopting the Fiscal Rule Act. The Fiscal Rule Act was a very difficult and very long-coordinated law because it required a two-thirds majority to adopt it. And one part of the directive was transposed by the adoption of the Fiscal Rule Act. The second fact I would like to point out is that the Public Finance Act, as we have discussed very extensively on the Committee, is a difficult law because it interferes with different areas or with all areas of public finances; and it is very difficult to understand these issues among stakeholders, or we know that we will never achieve it. However, I would point out that it makes sense for the government to adopt laws in the first half of the mandate, so that it can then, in the second half, monitor this implementation, so that ex post can assess what is going on, what is going on, what is going on in the law; but not that you adopt the law in the end and then, in some way, enforce it into the new government. At the same time, let us not forget that most of the provisions required by the directive or this six-year-old on fiscal governance are in practice applied. We have transparent public finances, we have publications on the websites for the central and local levels, we have a bunch of very up-to-date data, so these are the things the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission, credit rating agencies praise because things are transparent. As Mrs Šergan said, in an international independent survey, Slovenia has again taken a very high position in the transparency of the budget. I think that the transparency of the budget alone does not have to be so much concerned about the penalties that you have mentioned; this is not about 11 million; it would only take place if the judgment were to take place. The European Commission delivered its judgment at the end of last year, and by 27 March we have a deadline for clarification, for notification. If the law is now adopted, we will only inform the European Commission and we are not talking here about four years late. Neither direct nor indirect damage is caused by the reasons I mentioned earlier. Perhaps I would say this, however, that fiscal rule or fiscal management applies to all kinds of expenditure, and fiscal rule does not restrict citizens on the one hand so that other types of expenditure can be viewed with different glasses. It is simple to have different international commitments, this commitment to defence expenditure is an international commitment, and then we have other types of expenditure linked to gross domestic product; and at the time of the growth of gross domestic product in nominal amounts, they are increasing. Otherwise, the fiscal framework is so robust that all types of expenditure must be taken into account in it, and one way or another, it may also show some kind of nonconsistency, because, say, there are also investments in it. In the final phase, investments then contribute to the public financial balance. If we want to increase economic growth, if we want to increase productivity, we need investments on the one hand and, on the other hand, these same investments, or all of the expenditure, either affect or are included in the ceiling of expenditure. Here, the European Commission will have enough work to make these rules more simple and more consistent in the follow-up to this economic or fiscal governance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u51	The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Thank you very much also the distinguished Secretary of State for this explanation. The Fiscal Rule Act does not replace the Public Finance Act, it's a special topic, it's probably mag. Sasha Jazbec and probably someone else. As a result, the matter is linked, but it is not such that anything in this regard can be compensated. And now, with regard to punishment and prejudgment of what the European Commission will decide. The European Commission has brought an action, and even if there is no fine, in the political world, in political Europe this means something for Slovenia, it means something negative, in my personal opinion. It means that we are not credible; it also means that perhaps the words of the Prime Minister of the Government that he said on Monday, how we have no problems with the European Commission and so on; if there is a lawsuit here, we probably have some problems with the European Commission. He spoke in another context, but he generally said that we had no problems. And if the coalition decides not to adopt any legislation that first puts into the normative programme or the top of the coalition and which is mandatory for the adoption of directives, this of course means something negative and certainly this is a bad impression and actually a bad act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u53	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Yeah. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, chairman. We will not support this law in Leviac for two reasons. First of all, it's not because of this, but the priorities are against the fiscal rule. The fiscal rule is the encirclement of democratic mechanisms in one country, how to tighten the belt of the vast majority of citizens and citizens, of working people and how to drive some development path solely according to the parameters of the neoliberal mantra. So how to please the financial markets, the international financial institutions, how to comply with foreign power centres directives and how to benefit from any democratic, social and other aspirations of its citizens and citizens. This is at the most fundamental level why we are against this law. Secondly, it is clear that the fiscal rule is being implemented and is intended to be implemented selectively, that the scope of the public sector should be reduced in its entirety, while military expenditure is expected to increase within it, which only confirms my previous point. Spar are in social, health, pension, all public expenditure, in all categories that contribute to the welfare of citizens and citizens, ordinary people if you want; at the same time, funds for a repressive apparatus are increasing. It'll be for Patri. It won't be for retirement. For international missions abroad, for example, for the siege of Russia, money will be found, it will go even further; social assistance still does not cover the minimum cost of living. And how often the proponents get involved in this law is evident from the explanation given regarding the impact on the budget. This explanation states: “The proposed law has no financial implications for the state budget, since in practice all the proposed regulation is already being implemented.” If all the proposed arrangements are already in place, only two can follow them. Firstly, the current practice is illegal because it takes place without a legal basis. Secondly, the proposed law is in fact unnecessary because the proposed regulation already exists and the legal basis is already. Which of these two is true? Probably just option three. The Ministry only knows half what they're doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u55	Just one factual correction. There was a historical siege of Stalingrad and the siege of Russia is not yet there.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u56	Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u57	Procedurally, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u58	Thank you, Chairman. I have to respond because I think your intervention was unnecessary. It was also inaccurate. Then, for 25 years, it has a very clear strategy of expansion to the East. The eastern border of NATO moved a thousand kilometres towards Russia, toward the east after the collapse of the Warsaw Pact; although there was a promise after the dissolution of the Warsaw Pact that this would not happen. In recent years, we have also been able to monitor the rise in these tensions that come from Western ideologists. After all, why did Slovenia send its boys and girls to the Russian border?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u59	Whatever we do, we will never get to the bottom of this, but the fact is that Russia's siege is gone. We can talk about other things, but it's not a siege. This word will not be used so easily. I'm closing the debate. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, I closed the debate. But you have a procedure, Mr. Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u60	I think this second intervention, for the first time, was unnecessary and, secondly, incorrect. The process, which we have been monitoring for 25 years and especially intensively in recent years, can be put into one or another marker, but the fact is that NATO, and especially the West, with its centres of power on purpose, systematically tightens the loop around the Russian Federation. That's a fact. From attempts of colour revolutions to strikes, from Georgia to Ukraine and so on. By depicting the Russian bear as a threat to global peace, by distributing Western armies to the Russian borders and so on, these are all very clear empirical confirmations that the siege of Russia – or you say it as you wish – is actually happening to a degree. And it is only these activities of the West that threaten European, potentially global, peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u61	I will stop because there is really no point in talking about literary comparatives and international relations at the same time. [[advertising from the hall]] Not because of it; but because of the fact that we can finish the matter. So I'm closing this point. We'll be in line on the amendment. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, I finished it earlier. [[advertising from the hall]] I really finished it before he got the last procedural one. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, we should get back to you first, considering. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore or because no one wanted to discuss it in time, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of agenda items 19 and 20. I'm breaking up with this point 5 of the agenda. We're moving to six. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTAL AMENDMENTS TO THE ADDITIONAL TAX IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee on the draft decision, Ms Vojka Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Hello again! Report of the Finance Committee to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act, second dealt with. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall hold its 47th session. 2. 2018 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank. Representatives and representatives of the proposer of the law, the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legislative Service, the State Council, the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and the Association of Fireworks attended the meetings of the Committee. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. The Service made comments on individual articles, namely Articles 3 and 7 of the proposal. In the introduction, a representative of the bill's proponent explained the objectives of the proposed law. The main objective of the proposed law is to introduce a second lower VAT rate of 5%. The proposed law also aims to reduce VAT rates to a pre-crisis level, which would relieve citizens, particularly those with the lowest revenues, while also encouraging consumption, which would have a beneficial impact on economic growth and competitiveness and thus ultimately on the revenues of the state budget. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance notes that, on 20 December 2017, the Council of State had already tabled and adopted a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, the first hearing, EPA 2365-VII by the same proposer, proposing an equal reduction of the applicable VAT rates as of 1 January 2018 and proposing the introduction of an additional lower rate of 5 % for the same selected supplies of goods and services, of which a VAT rate of 9,5 % is paid after the current regulation. The government had already opposed the proposed law and the law had not been supported by the National Assembly and the legislative procedure for the bill had been completed. He explained the reasons why the Government does not support this proposal and, above all, mentions the fact that the solution is not systemic and is also problematic in terms of public debt management. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service further explained that the Service had given a written opinion and insisted on its written comments, particularly with regard to Article 7, which referred to the entry into force of Article 155 of the Constitution. The Committee adopted the following decision with 7 for, 4 against: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act, ZDV1-K, second reading, EPA 2486-VII, is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u63	I give the floor to the representative of the proposer of the Magi bill. Mr Shirtz to present his position on the proposal of the mother's working body. Mag. Spread out, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have proposed a reduction in value added tax rates to the pre-crisis level, from 22 to 20% of the overall rate and from 9.5 to 8.5 of the reduced rate. In addition, we have proposed taxation of certain products and services with a strongly reduced rate of 5%, particularly those that are essential for people's lives. The Committee says that this proposal is not systematic. What's not systemic? That's a fabrication. This proposal is systemic because two of these rates were also applied systematically before the crisis. And also the introduction of the third, severely reduced, rates are systemic, in accordance with European Union directives, if you want. The 19 countries of the European Union have a severely reduced or one third level – whether this is a severely reduced rate, whether it is an intermediate rate, or whether it is a minimum rate, whatever we call it, it also has a third rate. And what is unsystematic about people being estimated to have 350 to 400 euros more money a year? What's so unsympathetic about it? The fact that people will have more annual income shows that there is something unsystematic about this coalition. How systematic it is for citizens to have more money, and how systematic it is, of course, that as citizens have more money, they have a higher standard of living and they have a higher quality of life. If you think it's unsystematic that pensioners can't pull the first day of the month with the last one, which would make it easier, then you're wrong. And then we're not even talking about systemicity here or not, but I'm just wondering what's systemic, what's important to people. Look, these are some fictional phrases that appear here, that are thought by some or some committees, because the committee so decides that they're still educated, but they're completely lifeless. It is totally lifelike for people to have more money on the basis of this proposal. It's totally systemic. They will not have less, in no case will they have less, they will have more, because lower rates in this case mean more money. It also means that, as a result, they will also have higher pensions and higher salaries, those low wages. This is guaranteed by this proposal. This systemality is ensured by this proposal. As a result, the economy will be more competitive, more jobs will be higher. That's what's systemic if you want. On the basis of the fact that people will have more money, spending will also increase and, finally, the country will have more of it. Everyone's gonna have more, but it looks like there's something out of the ordinary about this coalition if people have more. Then it's non-systematic. It was mentioned that the Slovenian Democratic Party had already proposed this law for adoption for the second time. Yeah, it's probably the third time, and the fourth time, and the fifth time. It seems that there may be a saying here that says, repetition is the mother of wisdom, or perhaps someone else in the coalition will realize that it is systemic if people have a better quality of life and more money. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, we support this law, we also support the fact that we will bring the rates to the pre-crisis level, because this coalition, this top coalition, if you want, Cerar, Erjavec, Židan, speaks of the crisis no longer. If the crisis is gone, then we do not need any more crisis higher levels of value added tax.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u65	In order to present my position on the proposal of the working body, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the representative of the Government. [[…]] Mr. Tillen Bozič, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, President. I'm glad you've addressed me with a gentler sex since my colleague was also present at the preceding points. As regards the Government's position on the proposal tabled by the SDS, I would like to start by saying that the Government opposes this proposal, as it has already been presented on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. There too – I thank the Members who acknowledged these facts, which we have also presented – decided to reject this proposal. Why is that? The government is setting relatively simple and clear goals. The first, most important, which comes from what we have agreed here together, and this is a fiscal rule, is that we will consolidate public finances by 2020. This objective, which is a key objective, also includes other objectives. In the area of tax policy, there are three; one is tax restructuring; in the context of the possibility, we have made a few moves here, the other is de-de-barcation in the area of taxes and the third issue, raising the efficiency of tax collection, which you can also observe and monitor through some of the measures that we have taken or have confirmed in this house. The effects of such a proposal are now estimated at more than half a billion euros per year if adopted. Part, approximately 270 to 280 million, or if this proposal would permanently apply around 300 million at annual level, at the expense of reducing rates from 22 to 20, and part also at the expense of reductions from 9.5 to 8.5. Furthermore, which is also a strong impact, there would be more than EUR 200 million falling into the account of a particularly reduced rate. In this proposal, also made by the proposer, it would be worth noting that some of the reduced rates are not possible under the Directive. Here they also talk about children's shoes and clothes, about school supplies, including fire extinguishers equipment, these are all things that are certainly interesting to us, but in the European legal order this is not acceptable, which is why we use other measures, usually by subsidising, creating calls and so on, which then contribute to these pitiful objectives. At the same time, I would also like to mention the next thing that very lively discussions on VAT are currently taking place at European level, both in terms of what the definitive VAT system should look like and in terms of how tax rates or VAT rates should be reformed. This is the part where Slovenia, with its representatives, is very active; given that we are in the area of value added tax, collection, operation of the system and so on one of the best in Europe, we are also the ones who want to end our proposals and ideas in the future as much as possible in this European regime. As it is said, I believe that when these matters mature, there will be a time to discuss again what to do with the rates, how to design them and so on, but in due course the Government does not see an opportunity to reduce or increase VAT rates given that the priorities are elsewhere. In the tax area, when we talk about restructuring, we are primarily talking about being uncompetitive. The first non-competitiveness that we consider important is certainly in the burden of work, and here the government has done a number of things over the past two years, after static calculations, about 130 million reductions at the annual level when we are talking about wage burdens, there is a particular area of income, and on the other hand the objective is also to address this as a priority in the future. So let's focus on this first, and then maybe we'll go to some other areas. However, it is an increase in VAT rates, and I would like to point out again that it was already communicated with the European Commission in 2013 as a permanent measure and not as a temporary measure. True, it was written into the provisional law, but in the final stage it was then, as it seems, introduced into its home law, into the Value Added Tax Act. As it is said, the Government opposes such a proposal because of the very large effects associated with it. We must also remember that the budgets for 2018 and 2019 have already been adopted. And if such a drastic change were to occur, very severe cuts should be drawn on the expenditure side, and it is also likely to be combined by raising taxes in another area. As it is said, the Government opposes this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u67	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Once again a very nice greeting for everyone! The proposed value added tax law is without added value – so we could describe a renewed attempt by the applicants for, I would hope, almost blackmailing ways to achieve their purpose, which is primarily a pre-election campaign, because to whom does the idea of lower taxes not seem simply genius? Secondly, it is an ideal opportunity to point again at the current government, how it has done nothing for its citizens, and to convince the public that the solution for their better life and the elimination of all financial concerns is only in lower taxation. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has also pointed out that this is a way of introducing legal procedures which, according to legal theory, could also lead to the abuse of procedural rights. The adoption of the financial implications of the bill has become a practice of misrepresentation of the applicants, since, as has been said many times before, in the Desus Group, we are convinced that such a failure cannot be replaced solely and solely on the basis of greater personal consumption. The reduction in tax rates does not mean an automatic reduction in, for example, oil or electricity prices overnight, as the applicant claimed at the time of the previous treatment. Also, consumer habits will not change overnight. In the Desus Group, we agree that value added tax is the tax that further increases income differentials between the debtors, as the prescribed level applies to all. Thus, the 22% tax will be paid by the same person who has 100 and the person who has 10 euros in his wallet. Based on this simple logic, it is the only meaningful progressive taxation that means nothing less than tax for those most basic goods that each of us needs every day and more tax on luxury goods, which is increasingly reserved for individuals only. We are in the Desus Group for the fair taxation of the debtors, but not at the expense of the weak. We still believe that the tax box needs to be filled with the tax revenues of those who create above average, not at the expense of those who do not even have to survive. And there are, unfortunately, more and more, despite the recovery of economic growth. The international comparisons, as we have already identified several times, can be interpreted in their own way, depending on how the proposed measure argues. It is true that Slovenia is above the average of the European Union in terms of workload, but it is below the average when talking about taxation of corporate profits. This segment also needs to look a little bit more closely at why this is the case and where we still have room for any similar proposed measure to bring it into financial balance. Members and Members of the Desus Group will be re-assigned to the negative decision of the parent working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u69	Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State Tilen Bozič, colleague and colleague! In Novi Slovenija, we had a strong response to the increase in value added tax since the forecast of the increase in 2013, which is five years ago. The rate rise from 20 to 22% and the lower VAT rate from 8.5 to 9.5% was, of course, understood as a measure contrary to the Christian democratic concept and our political agenda. It is therefore quite clear that we support the proposal for a law that restores the level of value added tax to the previous level. Slovenia is one of the countries with over-average value added tax rates. The World Economic Forum report also estimates that in addition to inefficient state bureaucracy, the most demanding and most difficult factor is the high tax rate for the business environment in Slovenia. In Slovenia, above average, work and consumption are mainly taxed. That is why we have already proposed in the past in New Slovenia a reduction in the value added tax rate to the German level, a reduction in contributions by applying the development cap and the social allowance and an increase in the general income allowance to EUR 7 000. In line with our proposal to amend the Income Act, employees with an average salary per month would receive a good €80 more than they do now. Unfortunately, the government coalition has not listened to our proposal for higher wages, but rather increases budget expenditure. We regret that the Ministry of Finance acts as the accounting of the Republic of Slovenia. We believe that there are quality personnel, also with here present State Secretary worth thinking not only financially but also creatively, developmentally. If we just look at the changes in tax policy with accounting approaches, we're not going anywhere, I'm sorry, we're going back. It is unusual that the left government coalition, as is the case, does not support a reduction in VAT rates. This is a tax that affects the poorest citizens most because they spend the largest share of their income on the consumption of the products they need to survive. On the other hand, wealthier citizens save most of their income, which means that this part of their value added tax income is not taxed. Contrary to the government's restraint on tax cuts, we can see that this is much braver when it comes to taking from the budget. From 2016 to 2019, the Government envisages an increase of €700 million in budgetary expenditure. Where is the fiscal rule you so often mention, respected coalition colleagues? The way in which state fiscal policy is managed indicates, above all, that the government is too unaware of the fact that money is created in the economy. The fruits of GDP growth and, as a result, the expansion of the tax budget under the leadership of the existing government only reaps the expenditure side of the budget. Companies that, together with their employees, take care of budgetary enlargement are waiting for at least a little burden to come. Reducing the burden of value added tax would certainly also increase consumption, stimulate economic activity and improve business conditions for economic operators. The high-tax policy shows great mistrust for the ability of citizens to manage the money they deserve. Only a policy that does not trust its citizens requires them to pay too much taxes to manage these funds instead. This policy is strongly rejected by Christian Democrats. The view of the coalition that this amendment to the Value Added Tax Act is an unwarranted non-systemic approach is groundless, it is an unwarranted statement, it is unscrupulous, and it is unscrupulous. Since the reduction of tax burden is an extremely important part of the direction of the New Slovenia economic programme, of course we support the amendment of the Value Added Tax Act, so we will vote against the proposal for a decision by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u71	Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Today we need to repeat the performances of a month ago when we held a debate on the proposal to introduce a new reduced value added tax rate. We could talk about an abuse of procedure. The same bill was tabled, dealt with and rejected less than two months ago. However, given the other proposals and the arguments used by the same applicants when assessing the Slovenian tax environment in view of the nearness of electoral decisions, and given the widespread belief that taxes are too high and their reduction will benefit everyone, it is obvious that these discussions will not be able to be avoided. The National Assembly is, of course, the right place to discuss proposals, how to improve the existing system and how to relieve people. Last but not least, it's VAT that we all feel. And the less wealthy among us do feel it more. It is also true that raised VAT rates have been introduced as an anti-crisis measure which has become permanent due to the stability of public finances. But it is also true that if we want to relieve people, we must also find a way to replace reduced revenues. A country without the possibility of action, without resources, cannot carry out its mission and not take care of all the public services and transfers that we receive from them and those taxes that we pay. We were talking about public finances and the fiscal rule when we addressed the previous point. Let me also remind you of who was the loudest advocate of fiscal rule, even its gold, the sharpest version. These were today's tax cutters. We must therefore recall that the fiscal rule requires a reduction in public debt, and even more so, surpluses are required to be directed towards this objective. It is truly strange that the same proponents, who represent themselves as the greatest advocates of fiscal discipline, have repeatedly and repeatedly proposed new and new measures that would break the state's ability to adhere to discipline. Since we are always talking about taxes, we are also summarising the data agreed by most economists – that Slovenian taxes are mostly within the framework, as do other developed countries, that they are above-average labour revenues, and that under-average wealth and capital gains, that there is no room for greater tax cuts and that in these cases compensation should be found for income losses. The responsible proposer would thus try to convince the National Assembly and the public with a proposal which would also explain part of the equation how we will cover the deficit that this would create. If they had a serious intention, they could also propose an increase in the taxation of capital gains or assets or other, but a concrete measure is clear from their other discussions that they also see Slovenia as a tax hell in the field of capital taxation. Clearly, they cannot be convinced of the opposite, so they remain blindly convinced of their right that they will be better off if the taxes are lower. We do not think that this topic can be discussed in this way, so in the Group of Social Democrats we share an opinion with a competent working body, which considers that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u73	Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, chairman. Members of the Left are committed to reducing VAT and excise duties, but with one essential condition – the loss of value added tax should be replaced by a rise in taxes on high incomes, on capital and on property of high value. Without this, if we just reduce VAT and not raise taxes on capital and property at the same time, we have a 300 million-euro budget gap each year. But we already lack money for higher minimum wages, decent social benefits and development projects. Therefore, this law is not suitable for further consideration. The proposer, the SDS, has proposed the same law several times in this mandate, but still, despite endless calls, he still does not want to answer the basic question – who would cover the 300 million-million-dollar gap created by the reduction of VAT? Or should we take into account the SDS proposal to reduce income by 200 million euros, the question is so much more difficult – who would cover a half-billion-dollar hole in the budget? Would this fall be compensated by a reduction in pensions, social benefits and salaries? What Janshe's government did with Zuyfa. Would you compensate him by lowering the income of the congregations? Would you cancel infrastructure projects like the third development axis or the second track? Also, promises that, due to the decline in VAT and income, companies will start to employ massively are unrealistic. The VAT change has the least impact on economic activity of all taxes or if you want to be purely empirical, for example, look at Bosnia, Bulgaria and similar peripheral countries, where it is easy to show that the reduction of taxes does not increase employment or reduce poverty. It's just some neoliberal ideological mantra that has no basis in life. People need to be honestly told that a long-term reduction in VAT could contribute to a reduction in retail prices. By no means, however, does it hold that the reduction in VAT would reduce prices overnight in an appropriate way, far from that. Companies would generally not go into lowering prices, but would increase their profits. A short-term reduction in VAT would benefit capital, not consumers. When we discuss taxes, the proponents usually ask us why, say, the fuel oil in Austria is cheaper than in Slovenia. It is, of course, more expensive because we have higher excise duties, VAT and environmental taxes in Slovenia, but this does not mean that we have in Slovenia in general, on average and over high taxes. On the contrary. In Austria, they collect substantially more taxes than we collect in Slovenia. In particular, we have this for a weak 39% of GDP, in Austria for almost 44% of GDP. So the problem with us is not in taxes in general, but in that these taxes are not fairly distributed. With us people have to pay high VAT and excise duties on electricity, gas, fuel, food and other goods, so that on the other hand the capital owners and the rich in general can pay extremely low taxes on profits, on capital and on property of great value. The poor or working majority, the vast majority of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, literally and directly subsidise the rich classes of this country. Consequence? 10% of the richest in Slovenia already own almost half of all assets in our country, but on the other hand the poorest 20% only 5 miles. Therefore, the priority of the Left is not to reduce VAT, but two other measures. Firstly, on the income side, fair taxation of capital, high income and high value assets. And secondly, on the expenditure side, stop spending money on new patriots or other commitments to NATO and similar unnecessary costs. When we make this turn, we can also lower the consumption tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u75	Ms Vojka Shergan will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The SDS Group re-invested in the procedure in the National Assembly the amendments to the Value Added Tax Act, by which they wanted the value added tax rates to return to the previous state of the upper level from 22 % to 20 % and the lower rate from 9,5 to 8,5 %. They also propose the introduction of an additional lower rate of 5% for selected supplies of goods and services, of which 9.5% of VAT is paid under the current regime. With regard to the existing value added tax regime, it should be reiterated that, as a permanent measure, VAT raising was adopted under the government of Alenka Bratušek. In May 2013, the then government pledged to raise VAT as a permanent measure in the stability programme submitted to the European Commission. Of course, we understand the sustainability of the measure because the former government has increased the country's debt and created a large deficit due to the resolution of the banking system. We can certainly assess that, due to respect for the commitments made, we cannot cancel this, nor can VAT be replaced. The public financial position provides opportunities to reduce VAT rates without simultaneous measures on the revenue and expenditure side. There were no such measures by SDS Members. Thus, amendments have been proposed that have allocated the expenditure of the state budget of almost €19 million. Given that the budget is linked to almost 90% of the legal obligations, the proposals were not feasible. The budget needs to be balanced; these measures have not been proposed by SDS Members. Here I ask whether, due to the reduction of VAT in the SDS, we would propose a reduction in social transfers, the introduction of new soups. With Zuyfa, 800 million were saved, and most of these measures have been abolished. The reduction in VAT amounts to EUR 550 million of tax revenue. Can we expect a reduction in health investments or something else? Nor will we agree in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre to repeat the mistakes of the 2006-2008 period when the then government has contributed to overheating the economy through tax policy. With regard to consumer promotion, however, it should be noted that the reduction in VAT rates does not yet mean that there would be a proportionate reduction in the final prices of goods or services, since the question of retail prices to be reduced by suppliers is whether or not they would be reduced. With regard to promoting consumption, it is worth mentioning that we have approached this with a mini tax reform in 2016, which has also raised the threshold of additional general relief for EUR 300, from the current 10 000 866.37 to EUR 11 000 166.379, which people will already know in this year's income forecast, and with the exception of part of the salary for business performance from the labour income base and with a slight change in the income scale for employees above 1.6 times the average wage. We also encourage consumption through measures taken by the new tax package adopted in November 2017 in the National Assembly. Such solutions to the new Income Act allow higher incomes for selective groups. The change in the way in which additional general relief is determined allows certain taxpayers to increase their net salary under the average wage. The effect of introducing this relief would also increase net income for certain taxpayers more than would result in a possible reduction in the VAT rate. The same can be said of the impact of relief for work performance on the social situation for certain workers who received a Christmas or 13th salary due to the introduction of this relief. Also increasing the special relief for students and students increases their net earnings. All of this will have a positive impact on consumption without jeopardising public finances. However, as regards the lower VAT rate on fire-fighting equipment, it must be said that a lower VAT rate cannot be applied. Of course that's true. Nevertheless, it should be stressed here that firefighters are also financed through the budget and with the relief of donations to the fire brigade. In view of all of this, we will support the conclusion in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre that the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Added Value Tax Act is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u77	Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We will, of course, support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, especially because this law means good for people, especially because it means increasing their net revenue or their possible net consumption. As I have already mentioned, between 350 and 400 euros per year we estimate that there could be an increase. It is not unusual to return to the pre-crisis level, especially because we are no longer in the crisis. This is guaranteed by this coalition. It's quite common to know that in people's pockets. Here I would like to answer a few more questions that have opened up, but they may be too clear or some of my colleagues and colleagues do not want to hear them. Once again, where does the replacement come from? The revenue of the state budget and the other 2 cash registers increased by EUR 1 billion in 2017, which is half the amount planned. The government has planned poorly and there are higher revenues, and here you already have the full coverage. There's no problem at all from this point of view. But if you may have dedicated them to someone else for the current consumption of this government, then there is a problem. But in 2017, according to 2016, the revenues were substantially higher than the planned revenues of some 100 million. And that's why there's no shortage here, and we're not planning any reduction, no reduction in pensions, no reduction in wages, and so on, which is what some people who don't have enough information here, I'm just going to say, push. And I answer that. No cuts. The fact that most of the expenditure already, so to speak, is laid down by legal measures, some of you mention 90% – respected, the National Assembly is the one who can change the legal framework. This is not an argument in the National Assembly, because we are the legislative body! In this national assembly, who can change the legal framework?Oh, my God! The National Assembly. Therefore, there is no argument that already 90% of the expenditure has been legally determined. Once again, this solution that we will support in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which we have proposed, which is likely to be proposed once again or twice, in order to make it more difficult for some colleagues and colleagues to see the benefits of this proposal, we will support this in the Slovenian Democratic Party. This is not about any negative forecast of any overheating of the economy and so on. Here I believe you can draw arguments from the scars, why you are against because there are no true arguments. It's about the welfare of the people. People will have on average, we estimate, 400 euros of net income per year more. This is a proposal from the Slovenian Democratic Party. And you're against it. You're against it. You're opposed to people having more money. And that is why I think that this year, if not earlier, in the autumn work, this proposal will actually be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u79	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of agenda items 19 and 20. This also interrupts the 6th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 19. AND 20. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law supplementing the law on corporate income tax and on the proposal for a law on the supplementation of the law on income. The draft laws were submitted to the assembly by a group of 6 Members and Members with a first-signed magi. Matthew Tonin. With regard to these draft laws, the Group of 10 Members and Members with the first-signed Magi is a group of 10 Members. Matthew Tonin demanded that the National Assembly hold a general discussion. To further explain both proposals, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Jerne Vrtovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u80	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Today we are discussing a bill that touches an area that is one way or another – that is, this two of our proposals – close to almost every Slovenian and almost every Slovenian – sport. And another sport. In fact, sport affects Slovenian society in various ways very positive, rich life, brings entertainment, connects people and strengthens our health. Sportsmen, Slovenian athletes make our days better, unite us in cheerleading, inspire us in patriotism, inspire us, and, in particular, set an example for young, younger generations. Slovenian athletes are also certainly the best ambassadors of our country and we can be very proud of their achievements. But, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, our athletes, especially in the younger years of their development, often have to find themselves in inadequate conditions that are largely due to the financial undernutrition of sport in Slovenia. It is up to us now, at this national assembly, in particular whether we will be proud of our athletes, cheer with them and look forward to their success or, on the other hand, we as legislators will be able to take a step forward today and also to younger athletes, those who are still developing, to enable smooth action. The National Sport Programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2014-2023 also estimates that we cannot implement the programme part of the national sport programme without the appropriate country support mechanisms. It further provides that the State shall exercise public interest by guiding an incentive tax policy for the development of sport. We attach Christian Democrats to the national programme in this part; tax relief is more appropriate than state subsidies to promote financing of sport. But unfortunately, since 2 April 2014, when the National Sport Programme has also been adopted, nothing has actually been done in the area of sport support under the incentive tax policy. That is why we have joined the New Slovenia to propose a new Law on corporate income tax and a new Law on Income. The proposal introduces a new facilitation for grants to sports companies acting in the public interest in the field of sport and sports companies selected for the implementation of the annual sport programme at both national and local level or selected for the implementation of the annual sport programme of the Sport Foundation. The taxable person, who therefore makes a donation to such a sports company, is entitled to a reduction of the tax base by a double amount of the grant paid. The grant may only be intended for the organisation or participation in sports events or investment in the basic assets and equipment that the sports society needs for its operation. The implementation of sports activities is often associated with high costs, sports companies are working in various ways to provide financial resources, and tax legislation does not offer them many tools that could be proud of and helpful to them. The Institute of Tax Relief for Grants, as the existing legislation also knows, limits the reduction of the tax base by 0.3% of tax revenue; for example, a company with a profit of EUR 10 000 can therefore apply a maximum of EUR 30 reductions in the tax base following the existing scheme for a grant to sport, meaning a tax reduction of only around EUR 6. Following the amendments to the legislation proposed in New Slovenia, companies would no longer be limited to the amount of the donation. Thus, if a company with profits of EUR 10,000 were to donate thousands of euros to a sports company, such a company would be subject to a tax reduction of EUR 360. The country would therefore give up 360 Euros of tax, and Slovenian sport would gain as much as 1,000 Euros of support. Although the Ministry of Finance would have lost some tax, Slovenian sport would have gained almost three times that much. Christian Democrats are convinced, however, that the introduction of such a mechanism into the Slovenian tax system would significantly contribute to the development of sport in us. Slovenian sport and Slovenian athletes certainly deserve this after all the successes they reap. In New Slovenia, we are pleased to consider these two proposals of the law on the very days when we also look forward to the performances of our athletes in the winter Olympics, and that is why all the parliamentary groups are particularly invited to a constructive debate on the proposed provisions. We Christian Democrats are prepared to listen to various arguments and to seek a solution in later stages of the consideration of proposals, which will also be acceptable to the other parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u81	To further explain both proposals, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Tiln Bozic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u82	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Members and Members, welcome again! The draft laws on which the joint debate will take place provide for a new, additional tax relief, namely in two laws, the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons and the Law on Income. This is a relief for grants to sports companies acting in the public interest. Under certain conditions, a taxable person who will make a donation to such a company would be entitled, in accordance with the proposal of the applicants, to a reduction of the tax base by the double amount of the grant paid, which may be intended to organise or participate in sports events or to invest in the fixed assets and equipment needed by the company for its operation. In the introduction, the Government underlines that it is aware of the positive effects of sport and it is therefore important to note the actions already being taken by various policies, further to the legislative acts it has adopted or is preparing, and other activities which are important to ensure a favourable framework for sport. Tax policy measures depend on the context of general economic policy, agreed priorities, development and other social conditions in society and the country. Tax measures may pursue targeted objectives, but at the same time ensuring fair and effective taxation. All of this means that individual proposals need to be addressed in a comprehensive manner, not only in terms of one measure, one group or one area. The applicable Law on Taxes on the Income of Legal Persons and the Income Act already provide for a provision for grants for so-called non-profit purposes, including sports. In order to ensure compliance with EU legislation, it can also be applied to grants in the Member States of the European Union and in the European Economic Area. According to the corporate income tax accounts, in 2016 some less than 10 000 taxpayers and around 4 000 500 taxpayers in income from activities were applying this relief. In doing so, it is not possible to exclude debtors who have only exercised relief for grants for sport purposes, but it is information for all non-profit purposes. With this relief, the taxpayers reduced the tax base from corporate income by €21 million, representing around €4 million in tax. The tax base for income, however, has been reduced by less than a million euros, i.e. around EUR 300,000. In addition, in Article 142 of the Income Act for the purpose of financing generally beneficial purposes, including for sport, a specific institution for the purpose of part of income is up to 0,5 %. The government emphasises that these measures have not been fully exploited. The Government also recalls other measures, not just tax relief, under both laws, which provide a more favourable treatment for the debtors, for example in the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons exempting certain incomes from the base, the possibility of carrying losses and other general relief, including a favourable tax rate. Tax relief must be provided for in such a way as to make their application easy. Additional conditions, such as the condition that donations to a sports society are used only for precisely defined investments or for organising and participating in sports events, further tying to public interest and others, require specific verification and proof, which is also related to costs, additional administrative burdens and legal certainty or in such a case legal danger. In particular, the Government emphasises that the Financial Administration can control tax measures, control of the reimbursements of donations, if not used for the purposes required, does not fall within its competence. In determining tax measures whose enforcement is linked to a number of additional conditions, rules on tax avoidance should also be laid down. This makes the system more complex, more expensive, less resistant to tax evasion and thus less fair. The draft laws are not designed in such a way as to clearly and unequivocally determine the delimitation to the existing grant relief. From a height point of view, the measure also appears disproportionate compared to the overall grant relief. Attention should also be paid to neglecting other unprofitable goals, such as general benefit, charity, humanitarian, disability, religion, and others. The Government considers that the combination of measures, taking into account the gradual fiscal consolidation, is certainly the right way to a sustainable and appropriate environment, including for the operation and development of sport. Unfortunately, these two proposals do not pursue these objectives. In view of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed laws. I am here for further clarification and discussion with my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u83	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm sure we all ask each other several times why athletes or we fans are often the ones who get into politics when, say, they show up at some kind of reception of athletes, say here in the Congress Square. Why was last year a whistled-up minister responsible for sports when Slovenia accepted gold basketball players? Do we all have answers for this? We do, in New Slovenia. Because politicians, especially this high policy, ministers, are very fond of painting with athletes, but when it is necessary to help sports in Slovenia in a concrete way, then there is only a fig in the pocket. Today we would like not so much to talk about taxes, facilitations, money and so on that we are actually primarily talking about whether we still have the old Latin river, Mens sana and corpore sana, or, more precisely, if the entire Latin river is stated, Orandum est ut sat mens sana and corpore sana, which translates, let us hope that there is a healthy spirit in the healthy body. These two of our proposals, this twin of two tax laws, are actually going in the direction of our political programme, the New Slovenia political programme – Christian Democrats, where, among other things, we give special emphasis to the attitude towards nature, if you want creation, and a special emphasis on a healthy way of life, but you can laugh about it or whatever. Colleagues and colleagues, at this point in the agenda, we deal with two laws of New Slovenia, which in their form fall within the field of finance, and according to their content or problem, which they solve, the laws fall within the field of sport. The implementation of sports activities is often associated with high costs. We probably agree with that statement here. With the undisputed positive effects of sport in various areas in New Slovenia, we note that we need to strengthen the incentive to finance societies that care to a large extent about sports activities and the development of sport culture. Tax incentives for grants in sport are certainly a good way to improve their financial capacity and consequently to strengthen the positive role of sport in Slovenian society. The draft law introduces new tax incentives for grants to sports companies acting in the public interest in the field of sport and sports companies selected for the implementation of the annual sport programme at both national and local level or selected for the implementation of the annual sport programme of the Sport Foundation. A taxable person who makes a donation to a company falling within those categories shall be entitled to a reduction in the tax base by a double amount of the grant paid. The donation may be intended only for the organisation or participation in sports events or for investing in the fixed assets and equipment that society needs for its operation. In Novi Slovenija we follow the National Sport Programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2014-2023, which estimates in the chapter of the Sports Support Mechanism that we cannot implement the programme work of the National Sport Programme without the appropriate support mechanisms of the country. It further provides that the State shall exercise public interest by guiding an incentive tax policy for the development of sport. These two laws are exactly what they are. That's right. The new facilitation bill introduces a system of symbiosis between economic operators and defined sports companies, which has positive effects both in the field of the economy and in the field of sport. The mechanisms introduced by the legislative proposals strengthen the principle of subsidiarity in financing sports activities. This means that, by proposing legal solutions, we will allow the financing of sport activities to be carried out automatically as far as possible in the civil sphere by limiting the involvement of state authorities in the course of these processes. We believe that both entrepreneurs and defined sports companies represent social actors who, through cooperation and with the encouragement of tax incentives, can achieve significant developments in the development of sport. For a slightly more plastic picture of what our proposal brings, we can take a look at the case of a particular economic society. If a company with a profit of EUR 10 000 to a sports company had allocated thousands of euros, the tax liability would have been reduced by EUR 360 in accordance with our proposal. The country would give up 360 Euros of tax, but Slovenian sport would receive as much as a thousand Euros of support. I hope this arithmetic, accounting to everyone, is clear. If not, I can do it again. Although the state budget would have lost something inflow, that is true, but Slovenian sport would have gained almost three times that much. We Christian Democrats believe that the citizens of Parliament expect us to listen to the problems and needs of sport and to society in obtaining the resources necessary for their operation, to enable us to use new instruments in the form of tax reliefs. Since we allow Slovenian sport to improve its operating conditions in Novi Slovenija, we will, of course, support the proposed Act on Complements of the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons and the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Income. Colleagues and colleagues, Mens Sana and Corpore Sano.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u85	Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I listened with great interest to my colleague, because sports means a lot to me too, but I am sorry that we do not meet many times at games where we all cheer together for Slovenia or for a place. I see very few Members buying a ticket and going cheering for society. Of course, it's nice to talk today because the Olympics are what's important for sport to do. One of us in the so-called previous life were also officials in some sports clubs and we, I will say, as we say in Slovenia, raised money and we know how difficult it is to finance sport and how hard it is on the playground to get young fancy athletes. We have two proposals for laws designed to provide greater financing for sport and sports organisations – beware – that work in the public interest. That you will not have a feeling now – Hockey Club Jesenice, which struggles every day to survive, will not be part of this story, but the hockey club, hockey beat America, Slovenia yesterday; the hockey club with the longest tradition has immeasurably great problems to survive, in Jesenica. Its key solution is based on the proposal to introduce tax relief for companies and individuals investing in sports activities and organisations. It is specifically proposed that – this is now repeated – a donation given to a sports society acting in the public interest or as an operator of the annual sport programme would double the tax relief of the donor. The company, for example, donated 500 euros to the individual who would, what Jože said, be able to reduce its tax base by a thousand euros. This is worth welcoming, all these efforts, which, of course, would ensure, I believe, more stable financing of sports and other programmes in the public interest. Incentives, which would provide greater inflows of private funds as well, could be an additional way to finance such programmes. In this case, companies and business owners and company directors must also feel what sport means, because everyone is looking through some marketing and what they will get back to them. I'm sorry. Regardless of the good purpose, we wonder whether the solutions we set out to do are good and feasible. There are many questions and the public financial consequences are only one of them. We should point out that the proponents have not clearly identified the negative financial implications, which they themselves recognise. Otherwise, they said that these thousands of euros go less than 360 euros into the state budget, but with the entry into force of the law – and I resent that – this law was simply imposed on the next government. We have elections ahead of us, let us adopt all the laws, but the next government will be solving this financial problem.This is not the best way to go, and this is not a good idea for my ideas. [[…]] It is also unclear that such donations should be limited in any way, for example by a total amount, since otherwise there could also be misuse and artificial spillage of funds in order to avoid tax obligations. You remember why I'm saying this. All those who have ever engaged in sports, and all those who have been well-meaning officials, we know that in local matters, those who do not support sports have said, and some money is washed there. That's what we need to know. In addition to the exposure, other issues related to such a sport financing model are emerging. In particular, the verification of the use of funds and the prevention of abuse should be mentioned, as the law does not provide for ways to detect them. In the event of non-use of funds, these funds should be reimbursed and the donor should also pay tax liabilities as it would have lost the already awarded relief. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are concerned that this part of the law is not well-defined, and we believe that it would be difficult to complement it in this part so that it can also be feasible in practice. With regard to intentional spending, an additional question is raised, to what extent the donor can request and verify how the funds he has put into this club have been used. Donation usually constitutes a contribution without the expectation of concrete benefit or action, and it would therefore be necessary to verify the constitutional consistency of the proposed regime when considering the law. In doing so, let us stress that for the Social Democrats, private resources in sport and other activities in the public interest are, of course, desirable and essential and are also indispensable, particularly in sport accessibility programmes, the promotion of healthy and active lifestyles and the education of children and young people. This part of sport will always remain in the public interest, and it is therefore important that this part is the responsibility of the country and also of the congregation. Only stable public resources can ensure that programmes are implemented in a qualitative manner and are primarily accessible to all those who want to engage in various sports. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will use the general debate mainly to listen to all the arguments, so that we can then make a decision that will be considered in this direction to really help Slovenian sport in the right way, because this, I agree with you, Slovenian sport absolutely deserves it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u87	Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, chairman. An identical proposal, such as the current one, was discussed at the 28th regular meeting of the National Assembly some bad year ago. We didn't support him in Levica at the time, and this time we won't support him. The aim of change is indeed difficult to oppose because strengthening the financial support of sport is certainly important, but in general, the policy of sport is all too undervalued. However, we can certainly object to the way in which additional funding is to be made possible. This is the classic neoliberal cutting of taxes to rich people who let them eat even more into a bag of finance for education, health and social services, and thus another hole is drilled. This proposal is promoted as a sport measure, but in reality it is a measure of an even greater wealth of the rich. Double tax reliefs are highly questionable in terms of actual efficiency and are even more problematic in terms of tax fairness and in general tax effects. Once again, income tax relief for sports companies already exists. Article 66 of the Income Act states that the taxable person may apply a reduction in the tax base for the amount of payments in cash or in kind for humanitarian, disability, social security, charitable, scientific, educational, health, sports, cultural, ecological, religious and generally beneficial purposes of 0,3 % of the taxable income. Such relief, as provided for in the Law on corporate income tax, also applies to undertakings. So today's proposal brings a double tax relief. We're talking about a hundred percent bonus that either individual or company keeps. In other words, it is a new tax exemption. Already very simple mathematics tells us that the proposal is taxly unfair. Even if it worked, it would allow businesses and the richest to pay less taxes. It would be hard to expect someone with average incomes, even low incomes, to give some of their income to sports clubs acting in the public interest. Of course, then we are back on the issue of budgetary revenue. Despite the end of the crisis, there are still two mantras, at the level of “expenses of belt tightening”, better said consolidation of public finances, at the level of revenue, “we must not burden economies”, even though we have had solid or even high economic growth for four years, that the prospects are good and that corporate profits are going to the sky. The losses the budget would have had if the proposal had been adopted would not have been fatal. For example, the Government of Mir Cerar paid a lot more by tax exemptions on the income scale of 10% of the largest salaries. But it is a flawed and harmful logic itself, promoted by today's proposal to the right: burdening the benefit of the rich and the capital, while in the long run everyone else is damaged because they must either pay extra taxes or get less and less social services, and roads, and education, and health and so on. The answer we offer in Levica is, of course, completely different. Let the state collect taxes where the money is large, rich and capital it certainly are, and redistribute it where there are needs. There are also sports items among the needs. The second question is how much this proposal would benefit sports clubs in the first place. Large companies have the greatest support if they are involved in the local environment. If we privatise them and sell them, for example, to some hedge fund of venture capital, sport of support cannot exactly promise itself. The largest sponsors are still state-owned companies. If the neoliberal right hand wants good sport, then it should turn its views to privatisation. And because in the course of the consideration of this proposal, this right hand shows its affinity for the Latin rivers, let me return to them with one Latin river: Hic Rhodes, Hic Salta. There's Rhodes. He jumps here. Let us highlight two other aspects of sport and politics. First of all, how much a country spends a year on sports. Sport is drowned in education items, and the Ministry of Sport and Recreation committed some more than €10 million last year, mainly due to opposition pressures, including Levice, the Ministry will increase its budget for sport infrastructure by €2 million next year. Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič will now spend almost 14 days on vacation at the Olympic Games in Pjongchang. What did she do in her ministry for athletes? She drafted the Sports Act, which introduced additional precaration not only among athletes but also among sports workers. Budget resources for sport fell at the same time. Another time. Sport is not just a spectacle, it is not just a top sport and it is not just a big competition. In the first place, sport is a mass recreational sport. Recreational sport is important from a health perspective, in terms of quality of life and quality of leisure. It is also important in the fight against inequality, against racism and other forms of subordination, but at the same time recreational sport is also a basis for excellent sport. This is where everything begins, and even the thought of financing should start with this sport for everyone, but in contrast to this, commercial logic is increasingly and more pervasive in sport. Clubs have to work more and more commercially, sports are increasingly subject to economic logic. The country has more than withdrawn its support, has no development vision. He may survive some of the biggest clubs and athletes, but the smaller ones are barely still alive. Which, of course, is long-term stupid, because they will fail the foundation from which the top sport grows and its results. Although at first glance today's proposal seems to like it, we will not support it in Levica. We're not gonna help sports with the tax box. The proposal is not only harmful from the point of view of taxes and budgets, but also because it is rooted in the wrong logic of capitalism, which does not benefit sports in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u89	The word shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vojka Shergan for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u90	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Members has tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons and a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Income, proposing an exemption for donations with a view to investing in a society acting in the public interest in the field of sport. The main solution presented by the proposal for a law is the introduction of a new facility to grant to sports companies acting in the public interest in the field of sport and to sports companies selected for the implementation of the annual sport programme at both national and local level or selected for the implementation of the annual programme of the Sport Foundation. According to the proposal of the applicant, the taxable person shall be entitled to a reduction of the tax base by twice the amount of the grant paid, which may be intended only for the organisation or participation in sports events or investment in the fixed assets and equipment that the company needs for its operation. It is certainly worth mentioning that we are aware of the importance of sport, but it should also be said that an additional tax relief is proposed for a grant to invest in a society that operates in the public interest in sport. It should be noted that the Income Act in Article 66 and Article 59 of the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons provides that a taxable person may impose a reduction of the tax base on the amount of payments in money and in the nature of humanitarian, disability, social security, charitable, scientific, educational, health, sports, cultural, ecological, religious and general useful purposes, only for such payments to residents of Slovenia and residents of other EU Member States, except for the business units of residents of EU Member States located outside EU Member States which are established under specific rules to carry out those activities as non-profit activities up to 0,3 % of the taxable income of the taxable person in the tax year. In addition to the reduction in the tax base referred to in the previous sentence, an additional reduction in the tax base may be applied to the amount corresponding to 0,2 % of the taxable income of the taxable person in the tax year, for the amount of payments in cash and in kind for cultural purposes and for such payments to voluntary companies established to protect against natural and other accidents acting in the public interest for these purposes. In view of the above, the benefit for grants for sport purposes is therefore already provided for in the Income Act and the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons. For a certain amount of payment for these purposes, the taxable person may reduce the tax base and, in addition, in Article 142 of the Income Act, for the purposes of financing generally beneficial purposes and political parties and representative unions, including companies acting in the public interest in the field of sport, a specific institution for the purpose of part of the income. Any resident may require that up to 0,5 % of the ZDoh-2 income be allocated to income included in the annual tax base for the financing of these purposes. It should also be noted that Article 9 of the Law on corporate income tax provides for the exemption of income tax from non-profit activities, the so-called non-profit organisation, including societies. Donations represent income from non-profit activities for society, so they are not included in the tax base in society as a recipient. Article 9 of the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons 2 also includes sports companies, institutions, institutions. All other measures, which constitute a certain incentive, relief or benefit for the debtors under this Act, also apply to sports companies, such as tax incentives for investment, employment, the possibility of transfer of tax losses, as well as exemptions from the tax base of the affected dividends. We certainly understand the proposaler's intention to increase funds in the field of sport, but increasing the incentives or additional incentives for sport grants does not yet mean that there would be more grants for sport. Certainly there can be no decision to grant only tax reliefs, we can say that it is necessary to look at measures in the field of sport from all sides. One of these is the tax policy we are talking about now. The data show that only a few taxpayers are eligible for donations and do not even make full use of it. We certainly cannot conclude that the main motivation for donations is tax relief, but it is necessary to look at the promotion of sport activities from the point of view of State budget measures. In 2018, the funds for sport amount to EUR 20.5 million, of which EUR 2.8 million for sports infrastructure. In view of 2017, the funds increase by 27 %, mainly at the expense of integral resources. In this way, the Government will support the development of high-quality sport in 2018 and 2019 through the co-financing of teams and individuals in the largest international competitions, co-financing and promotion of sport between children and youth and sports, co-financing the development and professional tasks of sport and in line with the National Sport Programme 2014-2023 co-financing programmes for disabled persons, older sports, pilot programmes for the integration of sports, disabled and charitable organisations and pilot sports programmes for the promotion of health and well-being. We can certainly say that it is important for sports activity, that two top sports facilities have also been opened within the mandate of this government, namely the Nordic Centre Planica and the Gymnastics Center Ljubljana. The Ministry co-financed both projects from its own and European resources. It should also be mentioned that in May 2017 the Sports Act was adopted which has a significant impact on the development of sport. The law provides conditions for the citizens of Slovenia to engage more and better in sports and movement activities to maintain health. The law will increase accessibility to sport and movement activities, improve the quality of professional work, increase the protection of the rights of athletes through the Ombudsman's Institute of Sports Rights, allow for free participation in competition sport for all amateur athletes and increase transparency of the use of public funds by uniting the structure and the system of calls and criteria for co-financing at national and local level and for the sport foundation, which will allow a greater review of the use of resources. As it is said, in the parliamentary group we support essential measures that will promote sports activities, but we will vote against the fact that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on corporate income tax and the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Income are suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u91	Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Today we talk about taxes and sports. We will probably talk more about sport than we will about taxes in this law, but this is a proposal which is an additional tax relief for those who will spend extra money on sports, for sports societies where people are involved in sports. Of course, today we can talk about sport, how important it is for health, how important it is for business, for well-being and so on. Last but not least, we're all dealing with sports, each in our own way. Nevertheless, I think in a relative sense, the most involved in sports are young people, young people, children and those children need to be paid for. It's very easy, if children go to society, any sports society, then we get parents or grandparents bills to pay for it. It pays because these sports organisations have certain costs, and on the other hand because they simply lack the money. They receive too little money either from the local community or from the country, they also receive too little money from donations from natural or legal persons. This law, this amendment of the law, will give businesses and individuals the opportunity to devote more money to sport. In fact, they're going to spend more of their money on sports to make it easy to say that companies are going to make it out of profit, while individuals are going to give out theirs to say net revenue. This means, of course, that depending on the individual decision or decision of the company, where companies are again run by individuals, depending on how much more money sports organisations will receive for both recreational purposes and professional purposes. And it also depends — as a result, it can — on how much lower the rates will be paid by parents for their children. In this respect, this proposal makes sense. On the part of the State, on the part of the Government and political parties, the basic question in tax reliefs is whether the Government or, if you want, a coalition, an individual political party gives an individual the opportunity to invest his money better than the state? This is a fundamental question. This is said to be whether the government thinks that a natural person, an individual, an enterprise will be more intelligent, fairer, more purposeful to someone than the state would. In many cases, an individual or an individual makes it bolder than a country. In short, the individual is a better host for his money than the state, because if there were no such relief, then the state would have covered it with a general tax, there would be no relief, no relief, it would have collected the tax, and this money collected from the taxes would have been devoted to what the state would have considered to be the most appropriate, most efficient, fairest and so on. And here we are with the basic problem, with the basic problem that the country here is not economically viable, it is not economical. The analysis shows that the country is less economical and less efficient than an individual, a number of analyses showing that an individual is a better investor, a better investor than a country. And for this reason, of course, it is necessary to give an individual a greater opportunity to devote this money to where he thinks they or someone else will benefit. In fact, there is a whole point and a reason for tax relief. If, then, we also set out here to facilitate sports and all that my predecessors and predecessors have already said about healthy spirit in a healthy body and so on, I think that, with the support of this proposal, I would probably increase the healthy spirit in the National Assembly a little bit, and that support for this law would actually go this way. Of course, we certainly do not exclude healthy bodies here. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support this bill, especially because we believe that individuals are better investors, better investors than the country itself. As a result, we feel that it is necessary to give individuals a greater opportunity to devote their money to sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u93	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u94	Thank you again for the floor, Mr Vice President. How nice to see you all! In view of how fast we are approaching the parliamentary elections, it was expected that there would be a full set of bills sent to be able to slide into the last meeting of the National Assembly and that it would be successful to end the implementation already in this mandate. It is not realistic to expect that all proposals will be successful, but they can be used as an excellent basis for the continuation of the political programmes in the next mandate, of course if proposals offer quality content, fresh solutions and necessary corrections. This definitely cannot be just another copy of a bill that offers absolutely nothing new or different from all previous versions of the same topic. The pure case is today's proposals, for which I will repeat the common position of the Desus Group, which has not changed since the last proposed amendment, i.e. since March last year. It is difficult to predict whether the number of taxpayers who will benefit from the additional tax advantage in the form of relief would increase and thus increase the resources intended exclusively for investing in sport. In addition, the question arises whether a person’s unselfish conduct for a common public good is not intended for donations without the expectation of a counterservice, such as a specific tax relief savings. Those who so far had sincere intentions to help sports companies are likely to do so in the future, irrespective of tax relief. Last but not least, they have this option already after the current regime. In the Desus Group, we are still critical that the applicants have not offered an approximate assessment of the financial implications or at least an additional solution to justify such a loss of state resources. The Desus Group has always agreed that the country should pay slightly more attention to the financing of sports, regardless of the form of sport we are talking about. In addition, at the initiative of our Group of Members, it has been achieved that the Government has adopted a decision allowing for a slightly higher amount of necessary resources within the competent area for sport in 2018 and 2019. For all the reasons given in the Desus Group, we believe that both proposals are not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u95	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on both proposals for legislation. First of all, she gets the word Mrs. Ludmila Novak. Representative of the proposer, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u96	Dear colleagues, thank you very much for your debate. A few basics first. The purpose of this marriage is to really help sports. On the one hand, when I see those who are most opposed to this law, which is not now in this House of Parliament, I get the feeling that they are probably monitoring the Olympic Games from South Korea at this hour. Okay. When our athletes win, it's really us, politicians, the first to go to Prešeren's market, to the Market of the Republic, wherever we go, and go to show ourselves nicely. After all, they're cheering us up, like the Minister of Education, for example, with the success of our basketball players. What is crucial is what we as legislators can do to help Slovenian sport. In New Slovenia, we have a solution, and the key point is that when the country gives up for example €360 at a donation of €10,000, when essentially a small amount of the state gives up, it can bring more resources to the sport itself. It is only a circuit, easier circuitry, how better, in a better way to help Slovenian athletes. I will now stop this debate on public interest, what our law is intended for, what it concerns and so on. It seems to me that we have a problem in this Parliamentary Chamber when we understand our law, namely that many of you who have read your views on behalf of the parliamentary groups have not read the law or your experts. I really don't. Because our law does not only talk about investment, financing, promotion of equipment and infrastructure, which has now been said in the end by Desus's point of view, but also talks about activities, about organisation of events, we also define this. Matjaž Han spoke about public interest and hockey clubs – we can continue to consider this law, we can improve the law. No one has said that our form that we are currently considering is the most possible or the best, we can add something else that will mean a better marriage. It's about big clubs, too. Large clubs, large sports organisations have problems with financing, especially certain industries, which are very expensive. In particular, let us remember winter athletes, athletes who have had severe difficulties, how to get to the financial resources to carry out preparations to be able to carry out tournaments, competition organisations. We also have serious problems with infrastructure in Slovenia. Especially in small clubs. Not where there are millions of deposits, but in younger clubs, such as village football clubs, where 20,000 euros is already a lot of money and that means an entire annual budget. In one small congregation, this money is very difficult to reach. In Novi Slovenije we are giving in fact the opportunity to make it easier for smaller clubs to finance themselves, that is an incentive, that is our relief, donors, to make it easier to invest financial resources in the existence and development of clubs. And who in the country or in small clubs is the most involved in sports? Especially young people. Here we come up with another problem – that young people today are under-involved in sports, that young people are mainly in apartments, in houses, that they have telephone devices, computers, games, and that they have little incentive to engage in sports. Even though young people want to engage in sports professionally, that they may want to do professional careers or have a desire to participate in sports, it is no longer free. The membership fees for sports clubs are approximately EUR 50 per month for one child, and this is not a small number of money, this is not a small amount. The key thing in this law is a plan or a system to do more sports, to live healthier, to go out and organize sports and to save more money later. I would also like to point out the objectives of this Ahasuerus Act, before Mr Han, who spoke about encouraging donors, additional donor conditions such as the conditions that this applies only to certain societies and restrictions. [[…]] It should be pointed out that the purpose of the grant is precisely set out in order to avoid any abuse, for example, that each company would not establish its own sport society and engage in sports only in order to raise money there and thereby reduce its tax base. That's why we put this guard in the law itself to prevent any abuse. However, as regards the operation of sports and athletes, the public interest, as we have written down, we are open here so that perhaps we can extend this debate and thus adopt it through a further procedure. We're still open to talk. Once again, it is too little to be proud of Slovenian athletes if we do nothing for them in this national council, and the country is not really deprived of it. The minister can go to South Korea, he can cheer, he can have super nice, but if we do nothing for the Slovenian sport, which we are so proud of, nothing helps. In the long term, sport, sports and signals from the state are worth the sport, which means one positive thing in the long run. But it all starts and ends with the money. This circuit, which is made by Nova Slovenija with tax relief, is the most positive thing, because it means more money, and people, donors, especially in the countryside, will make it easier to donate to sports infrastructure, to their children who participate in sports without this country collecting money. I look forward to a debate that will go towards further reading of this law, where we can further discuss what needs to be changed in order to make the law even better, even more optimal and for the benefit of Slovenian sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u97	Ms Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare Mr Marko Ferluga and Mrs Iva Dimic. Mrs. Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! The success of athletes inspires us, inspires us, motivates us. We are all happy and pleased to hear that Slovenia has won the medal, the title of the champion, in short, when we have achieved important victories and successes. In fact, Slovenians are a phenomenon in the sports world, as they find that we are very successful in the number of the population and are among the best nations after the success of sports. Every great sporting achievement motivates many young people, children, adolescents to take part in some sport. I live in the municipality of Moravče, where we had a great jumper years ago, Primoža Peterko – how many young people he impressed, not only in Moravča, but also in Slovenia, and new generations of sports jumpers have arisen, which we are still impressed with! But in order for a sportsman to get there to notice and see him, he has to spend a lot of time, he has to do a lot of training, he has to finance a lot of time not to talk about the costs that most often fall on the family, on individuals, and then clubs that, of course, always have too little money. The National Sport Programme in the Republic of Slovenia 2014-2023 was adopted on 2 April 2014. It states that the State is pursuing public interest by guiding an incentive tax policy. Encourages tax policies. However, nothing has been done since 2014 to 2018 to adopt such an encouraging tax policy in the field of sport. Therefore, Nova Slovenija proposes these laws in order to encourage an economy that already has substantial funding for sport in order to be even more motivated. If someone here is saying, “Yes, economists want only some profit, some profit, I don’t know what”, yes, someone must be motivated to devote their money to a sports club, some athlete, to make it easier to achieve something, must be motivated. Why else would I do that? However, the additional motivation is that it will also have some feedback, so it will give something and then it will also have some tax relief. There will certainly be more who will spend their money on the operation of sports clubs if they are also further motivated and encouraged. I don't think it's right for me to say here that the country should pick up more from these rich people so that the country can share. That's not fair, that's not fair. Why would a Creator not decide to give a certain portion of his money or his stings to himself? Of course, in addition to paying taxes and contributions, which of course is normal. But unfortunately for us, many times they're not normal. Because sports also cost a lot before some children and adolescents get big results, most of the time the family, the family budget – those who can do it, those who can't do it, unfortunately there is not much chance that their children will make progress, because working in some sports is extremely expensive and costs a lot. Here we talked about our proposal for a law that we tabled last year, and it was rejected, and you will not believe it, the day or two after our marriage was rejected here in the National Assembly, there was a round table about a career after the sports career of athletes, where we also collaborated with the Minister of Education and Sport. What did she say to me then? “Yes, you are right, we must do something, we will do something together in this area.” That is why, in fact, I am surprised or even more disappointed today that there has not been an incentive, or this Minister's wish, to the Members of the largest government party. I believe that the law is not perfect because we rarely adopt laws that are completely perfect, but we always have the opportunity to supplement it. That's why we have a first reading, that the thing goes on, to complement it, to improve it. And today we all have this opportunity and the opportunity to do it. This could be a victory for all, for us Members and also for athletes. This could be our gift to athletes who cheer us up and excite us so many times. They impress young, medium, old, retired, employed, schoolchildren and all. I know quite a few older ladies, who also get up at night to see some important Slovenian athletes' games, and cheer enthusiastically when one is not expecting, and sometimes we think that this is just for young and younger and not for older people. How delighted they are, how proud we are! Not only is it healthy, connected to engage in sports, but not least our athletes are enhancing the reputation of our country in the world. So it does have a great deal of advantages, a lot of activity in sports. If we take away all the problems that athletes have after a completed sports career, when they often fail to complete schooling, so that they can become more employable or get better jobs, they often have severe health problems that they experience throughout their life, and we are impressed or recognize only success, those greatest successes. But when they're a little bit smaller or when someone's gone, let's just wave our hand and forget about it. We don't appreciate all of this. Therefore, thank God that some of the hearings for sports, athletes, so they also give out their money to promote the operation of clubs, athletes and also various companies make a lot of money for this. Here is the opportunity to reward or encourage them to continue or to do more. And as I've already said, they must be motivated. We can't charge anyone to do that if he's not interested. If we further motivate, there is a greater chance that they will decide to do so. The thought we had in New Slovenia was this: Why only sport, why not culture? Personally, I am both a member of sport and of culture, but unfortunately in Slovenia we do not yet have a strategy for public interest in culture, although the proposal is ready, and no one is satisfied with it that we have not yet solved the basic problems in this area; and then the law on the exercise of public interest in culture, which is also very prepared, does not respond to the need for time. That's why we decided then, and let's do something about sports, let's give this a chance, because we know that there's a lot of money going around here, but there, when someone can live with it, it's only after a lot of money, time, energy, their health, that they can get the highest, best results. Therefore, I say that support for this law means victory for all. For us Members, to be able to take a calm look or a calmer look – because we have certainly not done everything necessary yet – to look the athletes in the eye and say, we have done something, we will help to make more money for sport. The victory for all can also be in the way of preparing the amendments for the parliamentary groups, and this law can also be improved. Well, we've heard the obvious why we didn't anticipate the financial consequences, why we want to impose it on another government now. Yes, because the budgets for last year are adopted this year and we cannot because we are not a government. But we can do this in the future. Unfortunately, it is on the part of government parties that there are many initiatives that you want to impose on future governments, and what you are peacefully overlooking is what you want to do. And it's a big burden. Here, I say, we can all work together, we can improve the law and we can win together.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State with the team! This topic is very interesting for all our chair athletes and athletes and fans and cheerleaders, sports supporters and everyone else. We are such a masochistic nation, we love to boast about all this, to work out some little miracle. We're practically world powers, given that we Americans with 2,500 professional players and I don't know how far behind have won with about 200 boys doing miracles. But when we come to this debate, which was opened in New Slovenia today, we all immediately begin, unfortunately, within Slovenia the huge problems, how to do it, if it is systematic, if there is no money, if there is no money, we all cheer for ours, but once we get to this point, we have to decide now whether we will do anything systematic for sport, and then stop here and start some political games and don't know what. Unlike my client colleagues, I have a different opinion. I have a thought that is very close to New Slovenia, no matter what my colleague the Secretary of State has said, which I also greatly appreciate and respect, but I think that once at a certain point it is necessary to cut it, and it is true that if this country wants to invest in sport – given all the results we have, we are a phenomenal country and there is a lot of money turning around in sport, and obviously there is no such interest in Slovenia that it systematically begins to do so in a professional way. But we patch it up, the little sports ministry, a little bit of this, little of that, but there's no red thread, systematic financing of this sport by making it easy for those who give money and all the other things. I was also not in favour of what my colleague Möderndorfer was then – the law where alcoholic beverages can flow and where it has been said that sports societies and I do not know who will finance themselves – seemed to me to be the wrong approach. I am closer to the approach they have in Novi Slovenije. This mode of funding would be one step further. He's worth thinking about. Regardless of what the Secretary of State has said, I think we should sit together for the sake of the good and for the sake of Slovenian sport. It is also necessary to give this segment some new impetus, some new power, all those who have sons, children in sports, we know that all the burdens are more or less on parents, and with funding and all the other things. Sometimes the operation of sports societies is misused in such a way or other way for local political action and for other activities, so there are many things that are open. Over the past 25 years, there was obviously no will, no desire for things to actually be systematically settled. We remain again as in every matter in Slovenia always in some status quo, this is obviously everyone's interest, but there is no interest in the interested public and all stakeholders, as well as political parties, including the Ministry of Finance as responsible for the budget, sitting down and doing some financial analysis and everything else, how can this be arranged so that someone has the will and will to invest and that those who would invest in it should be companies or individuals, some of it. I think it's a normal relationship, but not just before people don't want to give money because taxes and everything else are too big. I think we all know this because sport In the previous system it had to work according to a party principle and all of these companies were giving money because they were state-owned, today the system has changed, it is said, to find some right policy, a strategy to get in front of it. [[…]] I am sorry that today there is no Minister for Sport who is also responsible in one part for finding a solution. Now that we wait for inter-departmental coordination and all other things, it is illusory. On the other hand, when a person thinks, it is a good but also a politically welcome proposal, because we are just ahead of the elections. As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to support this, because I think it's best that we move forward and think this way, how to find some smart solutions and solutions, because otherwise we're running away from all these things. When the elections, the new government, and all that, will have a lot of other problems again, and then it will never be solved, but it'll just be put on the sidelines, just like all the other things in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the word, and then it will be mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! "Loved Pre-election" – Comrade Marko, we were in a dilemma here. In order not to read it to us, we wrote down when the marriage is valid, this twin, with 1. 1. 2019. You know, by that time, everyone will have forgotten who filed this marriage, so let's be honest. Mate Matjaž Han disagrees, but he says that the law should apply immediately, not that it burdens another government. It is therefore absolutely necessary, colleagues and colleagues, to go to the committee for further consideration. What's more, not just the finance committee. I agree with my colleague Mark, we have the wrong country. When the National Programme of Sport was adopted in the Republic of Slovenia 2014-2023, she was the Minister in charge of sport. There was no minister there, Minister of Finance. Today we have a reversed situation. But we do not have this power to invite the Minister responsible for sport, and it would be good to hear her opinion today. Yes, we have listened to the government's opinion, which is correct, but this opinion of the government, I don't know, but I'm sure it was written by the Ministry of Finance, the government just unlocked it. We've got the wrong world! Once again, we follow the National Sport Programme in the Republic of Slovenia 2014-2023, which was adopted by the National Assembly. This national programme also has a chapter bearing the title of the Sports Support Mechanism. It is estimated here that the programme work of the National Sports Programme cannot be implemented without the appropriate state support mechanisms. It further states that – I quote from this document – “the state is pursuing public interest by guiding an incentive tax policy for the development of sport.” What are these two marriages? Are you following this document or not? Let's work this out first. Or else I ask: Colleagues and colleagues in the coalition, what have you done to achieve the public interest by guiding an encouraging tax policy for the development of sport? We've been waiting for you and we've come once and we've come again. And one more thing, when I call for more healthy spirit in the National Assembly, I also call for questioning the consciences of those who said that this law is identical to those of the year before. You know what? High enough, we are well enough paid to read these few pages of New Slovenia's legal proposals. This kind of talk here, in front of universal Slovenia, is misleading and is not worthy of a Member. I'm sorry to say this, but I'm behind those words. Then: “They are all the same. They're all the same. They say something, and they don't even read it." Hello? Wait a minute. Where did we come from? I'm not a lawyer, so I got some legal manuals where I learned what donation is and what sponsorship is. These two laws speak solely of donorism. Only about donorism. At this point, allow me to introduce how in the countryside this matter is already working, but without tax relief. Do you have some country football club or some sports company – how does this company raise money? First he goes to visit all the craftsmen. Is that right? Yes, it is. And he begs them because there is some fiction that craftsmen have the most money and are in some way obliged to help firefighters, athletes, culturalists and so on, and okay, that's right. The craftsmen are already doing this. They're already donating. Some people have sponsoring contracts. That's chapter two. But why don't the state say, "Hey, bravo, congratulations." If you encourage sports activity, that young people develop, that young people will be employed there, that they will not be employed elsewhere – you know what I mean – then they must call this donor a lock, they can give him a paper plaque because of me, but the state has a favourable tax policy mechanism here. Some of you said in your position, but I'm not going to call these marriage solutions a condition that really motivates donors to give more for sport. Please! Then also remove tax reliefs for the research and development of businesses. Cut it out. What we've introduced in the course of Dr. Andre Bajuk's Minister of Finance. And donor contract: “Donor actions have been performed between the donor and the recipient with or without a donor contract.” It can be a contract. It can't be a contract. “If the donor exercises the right to tax relief, the contract is necessary.” I agree. I agree. “The donor contract is a mixed type of contract. As a contract, it is a bilateral legal transaction, but it is not a mutual or mutual benefit. Grants are payments for humanitarian, scientific, educational, sports, ecological and religious purposes. They are the means to support certain non-profit activities and projects. It is non-reimbursable payments in kind or by financial means.” Here, of course, we are talking about financial resources. We could go even further, because now someone might say, "Oh, now someone's going to abuse and have an affair or abuse too much tax relief." We said: “The tax base is reduced by twice the donation.” Next: “If the donor is a legal person or an independent entrepreneur, the donation may lower the basis for paying the corporate income tax.” That's what we're doing now. “In doing so, the basis is reduced only by the grant paid to a resident in Slovenia (legal person) established to carry out cultural, charitable, scientific, sports and other activities under the law of certain activities and does not exceed 0,3 % of the taxable income of that legal person during his tax period.” There's a limit here, we can put it in the marriage, but we need another treatment for that. If anyone is afraid that these donations or tax cuts would now go unintelligible or misused. Otherwise, anyone can read it on the website, if of course he has the will. I really regret that when we talk about sports, that young people should be encouraged to develop as healthy as possible in those best years of life, or that they should be employed by sports activities — is this a bad thing? Is that a bad thing? And I see your distress, some of your fellow Members and colleagues, who, on behalf of the parliamentary groups here, represented your positions, you had a bowed head and then most of them, who oppose it, escaped from the hall. So much for the Slovenian sports nation. It's a change. And if we can't do this now and what colleague Han has pointed out, I don't know what status the Hockey Club of Jesenice has, but let's sit down in the second reading, and let's expand the list of beneficiaries of donations or narrow it down, but let's move on with the parliamentary procedure. [[…]] We can't do that on the market. We can do it here. However, if someone convinces me that these tax reliefs will cause legal persons donating for sport to collapse the state budget, then we are really on the verge of collapse. I just don't like this accounting approach. I do not like that we always speak when the opposition, especially the right-wing part of the opposition, represents some tax reliefs – yes, for our people, but for whom?Oh, my God! It's about our people, it's about good, it's about the good of this nation, it's about the sports nation in this case. That then government accountants would come and say, "Hop, we've calculated that this is the case and that's the case." And I can think, uh, this is going to be really devastating for the state. How many times a hundred million times is this one and which other government has thrown out the window and no one is sitting because of it? We're very close, actually. Those serious things that have been exposed are: a set of beneficiaries who can receive or extend or narrow down donations and the date of validity of the law. We just didn't see anything else concrete. We just didn't see it. Therefore, once again before the decision on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I invite you to reconsider. What a colleague of Shircelj said, if anyone, then he must be in this Chamber between the Members who have the most taxes and his claim that the individual for his money is a better master than the state – that is the fact that this is the truth that I am signing immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will support this law in order to go towards further deliberation in the National Assembly, of course also to further address the possibility of amending certain provisions, particularly in order to remove any confusion, and also to make it more clear, on the other hand, about all the concerns mentioned here. I don't understand the government. I read the opinion of the Government and the Government that the current tax relief, which is not fully exploited, represents a reduction in corporate income tax revenues of EUR 4 million. Four million. 10 billion is around the budget. In the last paragraph, however, the budgetary position and the requirement for public financial consolidation do not provide an opportunity for additional tax relief without simultaneous measures on the revenue and/or expenditure side, and these applicants do not mention them. This government doesn't have $4 million. This government does not have a million if additional reliefs are to come. In addition, she hired 8,000 people, where she will spend some 10 million a month. Look, I'm asking myself, in this statement here referred to by the Government, whether this government is actually before the financial collapse on such a claim. For the first time, it is not known how much more individuals and the economy will give for sport, that is also what the applicants say, which is why they cannot give exactly the financial impact, and the Government also says that this is not and then gives statistics from the previous year, where it says that the corporate income tax was less than 4 million, and this tax is some 100 million, more than 500 million. You'll know exactly how much he's worth. And 4 million was the current tax relief, which may have brought again, even if once again for all purposes, but it will not, I tell you that it will not, but for 2019 as well, it will be, but not here, see the budgetary position, the fiscal consolidation, the Minister says for the budget 2018–2019, see, the budget is flattened, we have surplus and so on, and on the other hand the Government requires additional measures on the expenditure side. Yeah, what's that? What about 500 grand? Is this government before the total financial collapse that it's written in here? You know, these are simply copied words, some phrases from some period, maybe before I don't know how much time and make a copy-paste. And then when the employees do this copy-paste, probably no such opinion in the government reads it and politics just then – the government is politics – accepts it. But listen, the Prime Minister of the Government should be here right now, and in these claims, he actually wonders whether this government can actually live or can't live if we have such claims. I'm talking about this claim. I can read it again if you don't believe it. I don't know how ministers can travel around the world if the government doesn't have enough money to give someone some extra money, so it's going to go down a couple hundred grand, or a couple ten thousand euros, where ministers travel today if there's not that much money? Are they traveling without journals? I don't know, there's a minister in South Korea, there's a second minister in New Zealand, there's a third minister in Dubai. Look, I don't know if they're traveling to the poof if there's no money? So you say, you say: Public financial consolidation and the budgetary position do not provide an opportunity for additional tax relief. This is a tax relief of some 10 000 euros, perhaps in 2019. Now I really don't know what country I live in here. I don't know. I don't know how it can be written in this opinion. I don't know where we are. Do some ministers here tell us other stories than other ministers? Look, I don't know what to do here. [[…]] You know, that's some false argument from the government not to accept it. That's a false argument. I prove to you that the government has enough money to accept this relief in a financial sense. It received 500 million more in 2017 than in 2016. 500 million, which you didn't even count on. And now the government here says it doesn't have it. And do not mislead the Messengers and the Messengers. Do not mislead Members and Members. He's got so much money. And because of this tax relief, if this law goes into further consideration, nothing will collapse in this country. But if this is going to come together, then all the ministers and the president of the government should be sitting here, if that's what you're saying here. I doubt that's true, but the same government simply says so. So there's a lot of sand in your eyes, because some people don't even read well what they write. On the one hand, they say, all of this is a 4 million impact on corporate income tax, and now this government does not have these 4 million out of 10 billion. Oh, no. Look, don't underestimate the Members and Members. This government should stop underestimating Members and Members with such false statements when it actually says so here. That's the least that's going on here. Yes, and this relief is justified because people are a better master than this government, a better master with their money. If this relief is not available and the government is going to collect it in one way or another with any tax, tax, income tax or income tax, it will collect that money and screw it up. I don't know why. We could call it a trip, anything. On the other hand, people will continue to pay the same bills for their children or higher, for sport, for dance activities, for cultural activities, for any activity. That's the point, and now you don't understand it here, and here you're going to talk, the country is going to collapse because of that. Nothing will fail, not because this government is today, because perhaps the previous governments have been much more successful in ensuring that this government will not fail under such a regime. And I support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to the representative of the Government and Mr Jernej Vrtovec. So first of all, the representative of the Government, Mr. Tillen Christmas, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. I will also take advantage of this for a few short responses to some of the claims made: that because of the EUR 4 million the state would fail, that the government would either mess up the money and so on. I strongly reject this for a number of reasons. This government, maybe it's unusual for someone, just set its priorities. And according to these work priorities. As far as we have had the manoeuvring space on taxes, this is the first objective, the fiscal consolidation, as we have said. Wherever there was room for manoeuvre, we used it in the restructuring, and this was a reduction in labour costs, and this is, for about, as I said earlier, 130 million at the annual level, if we look at static or this year at 7 years, of course, a little more. And that's what we're going to be working on in the future. You have just chosen according to your policy, by your thinking one goal, which you think it would be good to pursue, to properly address. And it's just that at this point we don't agree. It's not that it's not that I don't know what kind of exodus or that we're just getting at you because it's your proposal, but it's a discrepancy between those goals set by the country and those being implemented and also from the point of view of approach. Why from the point of view of approach? From the point of view of the approach, because even if you went to watch, it was said that the Members had done nothing about it anyway. That's not true. This is because even when the budget for 2018 and 2019 is adopted, if you go to see the budget cut, you will notice that comparatively according to the year before, these appropriations in the budget increase by around EUR 2 million. And if you look at specific items, this is primarily about investment in sports infrastructure. So, it was kind of a look. You said, too, your action, you're assessing that to better address this aspect, it's true investment in infrastructure, but we don't agree with that. However, in our view, this objective was intended to be achieved in a more intelligent way, a change in the budget, where funds for investing in sport infrastructure are increased. If we look at the reality of the year ago, 2017, I think there were around 700, 800 000 euros here, now 2.8 million euros are planned for 2018 and the same amount for 2019. So from here on out, when we go to look, let's say, this prevention of abuse. This article is set out in such a way that it would probably be extremely difficult to lead him to avoid abuse, and if we started to change it or try to change it, we would probably find that you have processed it to such a degree of familiarity that it would become useless, which is what happens sometimes in our legislation. If we go to see what we already have in the law on facilitation from the point of view of businesses, espies, what is this 0.3% tax revenue, we find that there is a ratio of 1 to 10. Thus, they have quite a bit of room for manoeuvre to take advantage of the solution already in place. However, the second point that would have been particularly highlighted here is that in the case where the debtors have no loss at all due to such a decision, and this decision is the purpose of 0.5 % of the income of the natural persons for these purposes, it is also noted that approximately half of these assets available are actually intended for the operation of such societies and half of them remain untapped. So there's probably a problem somewhere else. This is also why it is always weighing whether it is better to directly encourage with public objectives or a general approach through taxes, and we have always been and will think that tax policy is one of the policies that can more or less successfully support another policy. Thus, if a sport policy is put in place, it is necessary to look at the way in which the tax is incorporated. It currently includes the fact that there is a certain relief for these purposes and that there is also the possibility of earmarking part of the income for this purpose. So here, however, I think that there are certain solutions that show that such an upgrade would probably not have occurred, say, it is not necessary for the objectives to be achieved or we estimate that they would not have been, at least in this sense, as you represent them. And from here on out, we can look at what this would encourage. Thus, we always have what a solution brings and what conduct the debtors encourage. And in this case, if we go to see the level of espionage when they come into the scale, if they're not flat-rate, because flat-rates can't apply in any way, we get into a situation where someone has a marginal rate of taxation, one has 27%, one has 34%, one has 39%, one even 50%, a double recognition of this cost, that is to say, 50% means there is no cost at all, but the state is betting. At 39% 78% of the country's bet, at 34% is 68%, at 27% is 54%, so this ratio is so interesting. Also from this point of view, because of the relationship between a company and a company, there have been some problems in the past and a number of measures have been taken to normalise this. In this case, in fact, when you say, for what purposes, it is, for the first time, extremely difficult to control, secondly, difficult to reach this implementation aspect. You're offering a solution if someone withdraws an investment in infrastructure earlier than in three years, he has to come back, it's called this society, to some company that gave it to him. And the question is, how does such a thing work, especially in societies that usually, you know, breathe, if you say so, especially on gills? And in some use of these funds in an inappropriate way, even in the relationship between societies, businesses and so on, when the question is whether we are really going to help those we have in mind, or whether the matter is going to turn out somewhat. That is why money is available for those matters that are in line with the Government's priorities, even in sport, and also in sport, the share of resources for sport has increased. And you have also attached Members to this through the approval of the budget. For all these reasons, the Government does not support the proposal, but it is always welcome to discuss such things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word is Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I really don't understand the discussions that really don't have any basis or what happens if it does, the Secretary of State said. I'll get rid of these abuses first. Abuses take place in various areas in this country, many people are frauds, and therefore in this country we have competent institutions that are persecuting these frauds that prevent abuse. And that's why I want strong inspection services. And to talk about how this law will increase abuses in this area, instead of the fact that the law has a purpose, the original purpose, how to help sports, is without the basis and waste of your 8 minutes of time. Mr Secretary of State, this law, we have already said at the outset, contains key security guards that businesses will not then establish their societies. He's got guards. And talking all the way out there — and if there are frauds, there are inspection services that respond. However, the key point cannot be that this law is rejected, but that there is a predisposition that fraud itself will live in this country, and this law is therefore meaningless because the frauds will deserve it. Yes, then any law with such an argument may be opposed. It doesn't even make sense that we have another debate, because people are choosing shortcuts, of course. They are frauds, but they will always be, so we have competent authorities to prevent these frauds. And allow one more base. Why did we file this marriage? The initiative for this law did not come from among us Members, although we are aware of the problem in sport, but especially from parents of children who feel the need to develop sports activities, sports infrastructure, sports investment, sports games and so on, and because it also came from sports organisations living on gills. And now let's split up one thing. Great athletes, I give the case here, I don't know, Peter Prevc, Ilka Stukec, strong football clubs, no problem with sponsors, no problem. They'll survive, otherwise not like abroad, but they'll get here Gorenje on the head, on the cap, here's Petrol, state firm, yeah, that's no problem. But these athletes are market-oriented goods, they are market-interesting, which is why companies come, so sponsors advertise, and they are also marketed in the success of this athlete. The problem is small sports clubs, small organisations, and athletes who are not so successful are involved. I'll give you an example of the Vipava Football Club, there's a lot of kids training at this football club, and they're going from Pontius to Pilate to help them get 10, 20 Euros to go to some game. How can you help those who are not interesting? This is about donations. Tell me why you – you have a business, Mr Secretary of State – why would you give a 10,000-euro donation to a sports club that has no success, and your company is not visible. Does anyone see any reason? I don't. Why would someone give him 100 euros if it never comes back to him, except for some listening to sports? Yeah, that's what this is about. Because this company is listening to sports, to sports. It is up to us, as responsible politicians in the National Assembly, to at least somehow approach this entrepreneur, who gives this money as a donation, to approach it and to give him here a reduction in the tax base, that the tax relief is that counterweight, by the state, that "thank you very much for promoting sport, because you promote a healthy lifestyle, sports, that our youth has a place to play football, they would say in the Vipavska Valley instead of forgetting, wasting time on apartments and playing games to prefer sports." That's what this is about. Because no one is worth giving 10,000 Euros a donation to a small football club, for example, because it is nowhere to be seen because it is never on TV because no LPP has the company's markings. That's the way it is. Let us help these sports clubs, these societies that fight daily for their existence, because the guardian, in this case, does not want to be abused, this law contains enough. If I finish. Look, there's no point discussing how proud we are of our athletes and athletes. Great. Now he's running, and he's shooting, and he says he's doing great. I hope this hall is empty now because you're all watching James Fak. But let's do something else for those young people who want to be Jake's Fak once.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u109	It's the second one. It's the medal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u110	It's the second one. It's the medal. Congratulations to Jacob Fak! We're proud of him! Let us make sure that we have more of these young people who will have the opportunity to participate so that they will be top athletes, even if they are not top athletes, that they will be out there and engage in sports. If there is anything at our disposal in this National Assembly or if we have bad news that we have done nothing concrete in four years, we have, Mr Secretary of State, with you in charge, now the opportunity to say at the end of our term of office also because of our own conscience: "Something, in this Parliament we will do for Slovenian sport and in the next procedure we will release the law of New Slovenia, which lowers the tax exemptions for these companies to make a big difference, we will open the door to them to invest." If anyone is into sports, this law will help us to accept that he is going into further procedure. I stress that in New Slovenia we are open to further improve the law. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u111	Thank you very much. All the debaters got the word, the one, of course, you wanted, and the time hasn't run out yet. Does anyone else want to discuss it? Well, then, of course, I also warn the proposer and the representative of the government that they can apply. Please report to the debate. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just for a little while. Mr Secretary of State, former colleague, Mr Tillen Bozič, I have said that I appreciate your expertise as a speaker. In a way, I'm sorry that you have to discuss here the opinion of a government that doesn't belong anywhere. I know if you spoke out of your heart, you'd speak quite differently. You have the most ungrateful assignment among us today. We're talking about 0.5% of our income, where we can go for that espouse you were thinking about, is 0.5% of our income was allocated to Karitas, and the one I was thinking about was dedicated to volunteer firefighters. [[…]] How am I supposed to help athletes now? He can't because it's already decided. And look, even to those of you who said that we were not even able to assess the financial consequences of the bill, one and the other, these two laws have all the elements required by the bill, because otherwise today it would not be included in the meeting of the National Assembly. So much for that. I just don't know how the Ministry of Finance got 4 million out of the way. That can't be calculated. The Ministry of Finance says 4 million will be out. And the SMC says, yes, the question of whether this tax relief will motivate donors. Wait a minute, then let me figure out what you're gonna say. And something, indeed, and I conclude with this, colleagues and colleagues, because I want to and we all in New Slovenia, that only these two marriages should come to the labour force, that is to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. I can give the President of Urški Ban a written statement that if she invites this committee, which is my wish, also the Minister responsible for sport, and if this Minister is to be responsible for sport, I think we need to hear her opinion if this Minister says and argues that these two laws are not in line with the National Sport Programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2014-2023 and that they do not exercise what it says: "The State is exercising public interest by leading an encouraging tax policy for the development of sport", then I will be the first to vote against these two laws on the committee. But I would like to hear the Minister responsible for sports declare that these two marriages suck and that it also makes an argument. We have a word for it. I'll keep my word. But let's give it a chance. Is it a problem if these two marriages go to a different treatment? And there we agree and actually remove the comments that have been properly exposed here – Why is the date of entry into force only on 1 January 2019? We understand why not before. Once again, we wanted to move this to 2019 so that someone wouldn't read to us that it was a pre-election candy. We don't need to, we don't have to, and we also realize that the 2018 budget is under the roof, but the rebalancing in 2019 is possible, that is 1. 1. 2019 is a real date. And the correct observation that the collection of grant recipients is too narrow, some that it is too wide – let us coordinate on this. I didn't notice any other comments, we didn't notice. I propose, colleagues and colleagues, that we show the Slovenian nation that we believe, here in the National Assembly, that the Slovenian nation is a sports nation. Perhaps this silver medal, if I hear it correctly, will move a chip in the heart and in the head to someone today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. We will decide on the proposals in half an hour in the framework of the vote. I hereby adjourn the 19th and 20th agenda items and the 38th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 2.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u114	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue our adjourned meeting of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 4, 12, 5, 6, 19, 20, 8, 9, 10, 13, 24 and 26 items of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Act, following a reduced procedure. For a procedural proposal, I give the floor to Dr. Simoni Kustec Lipicer, Head of the Modern Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u115	Thank you very much, President. On the basis of today's debate, I announce the amendment to the transitional provisions for third reading in this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u116	I note that the amendment to the draft law on third reading is announced, so I am terminating the fourth item of the agenda, which we will continue with the third reading on Tuesday 20. 2. 2018, after the final vote. We continue the 12th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Registration of Real Land Use, Public Road and Public Railway Infrastructure under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 13. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the 12th item of the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Finance Act following a reduced procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 14. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 2. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 5. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that in the second reading, the National Assembly adopted the amendment to Article 2 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 4. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 5 of the agenda. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Added Value Tax Act is not suitable for further consideration." Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will vote in favour of the conclusion that this law is suitable for further consideration. To this end, of course, I also invite colleagues and colleagues, especially because it gives a lot of positive people, gives them lower rates and lower rates and, of course, their higher net income, thus also strengthening consumption and, at the end of the period, also state finances. The value added tax is a social tax, in other words, the burden of those who have lower incomes on their incomes than those who have higher incomes. This is why these proposals are justified at the present time, when we are not talking about crises anymore. They are also justified because the higher value added tax rates were adopted years ago due to the crisis, and this temporaryity needs to be abolished and therefore reduced to 20%, which was before the crisis, the current 22% is actually a crisis tax. Of course, it is also necessary to introduce an additional lower tax rate, which will mainly tax those products and services that are most necessary for people's lives. This tax increases the quality of life of people and provides them with more income. And there is simply no reason why we should not support this proposal for further consideration. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, we will actually vote against this decision, or in substance, this means that we are in favour of the law going forward and that it is finally adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u118	We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour and 18 votes in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. This concludes item 6 of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 19th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Income of Legal Persons is suitable for further consideration." Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of the Christian Democrats, Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u119	I will also explain the next law of New Slovenia. So sport and again sport and just these days we can be very proud of Slovenian athletes and athletes who are successfully fighting at the winter Olympics, yesterday's victory over the United States of America in hockey, today's silver medal Jakov Faka. Soon these athletes will come, and we will all or our party presidents, the President of the Government and so continue to rumble, and these returning athletes will be admitted to the Prešeren Square, in the market of the Republic, wherever they are. But what is the task of us as politicians at the same time to do? To take a step forward in investing in sport, not only do we monitor these athletes, we can congratulate them, but we can also do something in the financial field. For this reason, Nova Slovenija submitted an amendment to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons and on Income. What does that mean? It's a general relief. Approximately EUR 10 000 per contribution to a particular sports company, this overall relief would amount to EUR 360 for this donor, for this company. So it is to strengthen sport, sports participation through this tax relief proposed by Nova Slovenije. Because then companies are not worth investing in sports companies, athletes. Why would someone invest in sports if they don't have any of it, they say. In particular, these younger athletes, non-professional sports companies, are more difficult to obtain funding. Those donors who make donations, i.e. not sponsorship, the donors who give to sports companies would be at least a little more rewarded in this way. Especially in smaller places where sports companies go from one entrepreneur to another, politicians come to us and ask us for money, for which it amounts to EUR 10,000 for almost an annual budget. Let us give young people, especially in rural areas and elsewhere, the opportunity to have positive financial balances and to spend their free time in sports. In New Slovenia, however, we are also prepared to coordinate in further readings so that we can then get to a better legal basis, which would mean a step forward to help our sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u120	We vote pardon, interrupt, explanation of vote in our own name, Mr Primož Hainz. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u121	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I have listened carefully to this debate today and I must say that the proponents wanted to take us on thin ice, who is for sport and who is against sport. I don't think this is the most correct way to discuss it. I think if they followed their Minister Bayuk a little bit, which he introduced, if I remember correctly, I think even his idea was 0.5% easier, then of course they would suggest 1% relief and then everything would follow, which they said you know where the funds go and so on and so on, but they would all get it, not just athletes. I'm an athlete myself, I don't know, 58 years old, but I think they're just as valuable firefighters as they are to cultural societies, that they're worth pensioning societies, in short, just then they'd know where this money is going, which is supposed to be one of the important points of what they're talking about today. If we were to propose this, of course, I would strongly support it, but I do not think that sport is the only activity that young people in Slovenia are engaged in today. Thank you very much. And I'll do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u122	Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will not dispute what we have just witnessed, but I will talk about explaining my voice, which means according to yours, Mr President, that I will deal with my own voice. I will support the conclusion that this law is and that this twin of tax laws is suitable for further consideration. Here there are no firefighters and charities, we only follow if we listen to us, we only follow the National Sport Programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2014-2023. That's the period we live in, isn't it? Here, in this national programme, we also have a chapter, an important chapter, entitled Support mechanisms for sport. In this chapter, I quote: “The State is pursuing public interest by guiding an incentive tax policy for the development of sport.” We are reading this program, the National Programme of Sport in the Republic of Slovenia read and, according to President of the Government, we have come with solutions. There's a solution ahead of you. Today's vote will show whether this National Assembly really thinks we're Slovenians or not. We think we are and we want to stay. For this reason, my vote in favour of the proposal concludes that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u124	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. I didn't mean to come by, but I have to be a pub boy from the village, I've been grazing cows, and I've been limping, I haven't been in sports, but of course I want to be in the village doing sports. [[…]] Now, like a colleague who had spoken before, I listened to this debate. Now, some party, a proponent who considers itself a Christian democracy, is one of the main words that he uses, is Pay/Not worth. We are people who have already given money or helped somewhere or done something volunteering in life, and we have not attached it to the big bell. Many entrepreneurs do, too, and colleague Han discussed this in the debate. Of course, in these days it is difficult to discuss sport and not be pathetic, so it is better not to discuss it. Now, how much more money will it be for sport, but this will be with another and a different economic policy that will not exhaust people, and not with the laws that we will consider today, about accelerating investment, but with some consideration of what we will actually do in this society and in this country that we will all live better. Very domestically: What cannot generate a thousand 200 gross per employee must be extinguished, except for the infrastructure we need to have, and there the budgetary matters must be subsidised with appropriate control. In this way we will also come up with more money for sport, and in this way also a ministry that has too long a name will be occupied and will only have the name of the Ministry of Equal Opportunities. Pika. I'll vote against it. Amen.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u126	A self-explanation of the vote, Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u127	In New Slovenia, we have a great deal of respect for the work of other people and the efforts that our athletes are making in that we can finally all be proud of them. But it takes a lot of time, health, money, incentives, motivations and so forth to get there when we can all be proud. And in order to make it easier for us to succeed, or so that more young people can get so far that we can be proud of them, because we are all patriots too, clubs need money. And that the economy, or those who have it, will be even more motivated to give more money to make us prouder, we propose certain tax reliefs. I think that there is nothing wrong with it, because we all want our youth, our nation to be healthier, more active, more involved in sports and finally better sports results. Therefore, Nova Slovenija proposes these two laws. Because we all say that we encourage sport to support it, but we really don't want to do anything about it. Now's our chance. That is why I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u128	Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 43. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. This concludes item 19 of the agenda. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Income Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal of the law on the supplementation of the law on income is suitable for further consideration." We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 44. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude the 20th item of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Entrepreneurship in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 5. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 48. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of SMC and Desus to Article 7. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded by deciding on the amendments and second reading of the bill. Since in the second reading amendments were adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill and the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 16. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 16.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 7 of the amended bill. On the basis of Article 138(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. However, since the proposal for a law on second reading amendments at the meeting of the parent working body is inconsistent, the Government has prepared a harmonisation amendment to Article 22 which is published on the e-club. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mrs Eva Stravs Podlogar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u129	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. At the time of the adoption of the amendments on the labour force, internal disagreements occurred in the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Entrepreneurship and the Government therefore proposes a harmonisation amendment relating to the adoption of the amendment to Article 22 of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u130	Would you like a word from the Member of Parliament and Members? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 16. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 19. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 8 of the agenda. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Promoting the Development of Tourism in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 18. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded by deciding on the amendment and second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading and the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly at this meeting, carry out a third examination of the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 4. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 18 of the amended bill. On the basis of Article 138(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left-wing Group, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u131	Thank you for your word, chairman. This law and the next item on the agenda are the so-called two farewell laws of Mr Restovalska and his team. Of course, it is necessary to develop tourism, but if we do not have the memory of a goldfish, we must look back 25 years of the country's history, because there was something happening that a common man says the place, and in a slightly more serious language it is called Pajda's kleptopathic corruption of Slovenia. And if anything, then one would expect in law to have sufficient protection, guards, regardless of who comes into the position of executive power, who rules more, take more than what the National Assembly accepts, but this is not in this law or in the next law. It's mostly stuck around a tax where there's a problem. If a congregation had accepted this highest possible issue, I would have spoken in the debate, meaning that a couple of lesbians were going with an adopted teenager from Bangladesh with one girl from the law for ten days on vacation over 90 euros of tourist fees. That is why, of course, there was a proposal by the Left, which I had written on behalf of the Left to calculate the fees according to the categorisation. We've even been thinking for a while about putting this amendment into place, but, unfortunately, it's not going to go through with this call from the National Assembly. More problematic are some other things that apparently only I have read in this law on behalf of the Left. I don't know if we've seen different laws? Probably not. There are quite a few articles that say when a country enters and subsidises some tourist infrastructure, which, of course, is nothing wrong with it, but it is very wrong that there are no adequate safeguards that somehow do not abuse it. Once, as they say in the human language, a Bademeister comes along, another time someone else may come to this position, and then something will move in its direction, without a proper fuse. That is why we will vote against this law. But the next law, which we are considering, is even worse than that, but which should fall even further, is likely to fall in the Constitutional Court. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u132	Is there any other explanation for the voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 40 votes against 7. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 9 of the agenda. We continue to end the 10th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Promotion of Investment under the Regular Procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be made on the basis of the Review of the amendments tabled. 13 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the left-wing Group to Article 7. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to 24. A member. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 24 becomes irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the left-wing group, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. This is a problem that goes beyond Article 69 of the Constitution, in short, the question of when discharges are justified. Derogations are justified in the public interest. And here, somehow, some capital interest is about to be shown as a public good. The Secretary of State himself said in one broadcast: “The direction of the development of Slovenia determines capital.” End of quote. The Secretary of State should know the constitution. In the Constitution, when we talk about economic activity – and of course the economic substance for the development of society – is very clearly defined that economic activity must not prevent public goods, be contrary to public interest, and that it has three dimensions, two dimensions on which this call of the National Assembly, with the exception of the Left, forgets; well, now before the elections, little Desus has remembered this, SD not so much; it has social rights, in short, the right to work and the right to work, and it also has environmental, ecological. We, in short, are literally deleting the possibility of such easy discharges, which, according to the law, would have been granted by a minister or minister in the MGRT position, and this would have been welcomed by a team of five people, four of whom would have been from the Ministry, and that fifth would probably have been some well-paid advisor that you paid all the governments. I mean, it's the corruption of a couple of excellencies, and here the KPK should be so crazy that it burns Ljubljana, and nothing happens. That is why we will actually vote against the law if our amendment is not adopted, because we cannot do so in this way and because we will have the treatment of Cinkarna Celje tomorrow. A serious investment law would say: If someone comes and is the land of local communities, municipalities, this land becomes an asset and the local community becomes a co-owner, and the local community also participates in profit, some of it has, and even if something has to be remedied, let's say, happens to us what happened to us at Vrhnika, the local community has money out of it. And that's what a responsible policy should have done when you privatized state property, because by the end of the '80s, it knew what the situation was in Celje, what the situation was in the Mežiški valley, what the state of Krupa is in in the White Land and where. But opinion is not the natural state, as the most famous Slovenian lacquer says. I hope you will support our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u134	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, that something is seriously wrong with this law, will now prove to be also a Slovenian party to this amendment, prepared by the United Left or the Left, now I apologize for the name and that something is very wrong. In our view, it is a total violation of the Constitution, an unexplained, legally undeclared interest in land dispossessing, so a dedicated group of people will say, we will defuse it. I think the Legal and Legal Service has also described and written to you. Regrettably, I must admit that the constitutional lawyer, who once or perhaps will continue to be a constitutional lawyer, is leading this government and so many violations of the Constitution or having committed violations of the Constitution and also of the laws, as was the case in this mandate. Here, too, I am convinced that this demonstrated public interest is neither reasoned nor described nor is the basis for this description; it is a total violation of the Constitution. For this reason, we will also support the amendment of the Left in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u136	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? Yeah. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Andreja Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u137	Thank you so much for saying that. Yes, I agree, this Article 7 must be given particular importance, but it is useful in exceptional cases. Much care must be taken in this case, and this is also stated in the law — a strategic investment confirmed by the Government. This Decision should weigh the eligibility of interference with private property. And only in this way will such a strategic investment be confirmed when the public benefit that really needs to be justified. Let me just remind you that you often tell us that SMC or coalition does not do enough for the economy. In this case the economy, the Chamber of Commerce, Slovenian Business Club supports this law, so we can ask ourselves why you who always support the economy, in this case this law or in this case we are talking about this amendment. SMC stands for the economy, SMC and the coalition is for new investments, both domestic and foreign, and this is confirmed by this law. So we won't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u138	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. On my own. I'm gonna call in the applications, 'cause there's five of them now. Please sign up. Explanation of the vote in its own name Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u139	Thank you very much, President. I will be very brief and, of course, I will vote in favour of the amendment or against the law, if this is not adopted, from one other point of view. If you remember, we passed a law on the Roma community a long time ago, and there was a shouting and screaming when we made some proposals on accommodations and housing for the Roma. There was shouting and screaming, because some feared that some land would be cultivated and shouted about how the constitutional world was private property of the land and that we could not do so. And, of course, the law fell. However, when a gentleman arrives through Slovenia with a lot of money, he forgets the constitutional protection of the land. These are such duplicity, and everyone is happy in this government if someone brings money, because it's about money, and maybe they'll even get something. But when it comes to people and their lives and saving their living quarters, of course, it is completely different. This is, of course, in line with the existing values that a person is worthless, only one who brings a whole bag of money is worth everything and can be sold to the country after all. Thank you very much. I will vote, of course, for the amendment and against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u140	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. There is another major problem with this law, resulting somehow from the practice of this coalition and this government, led by a constitutional lawyer, a long-standing advisor to the National Assembly on Constitutional Issues. Why? We have no problems in Levica, but probably none of the serious Members, so that quality jobs are financed from the common small. We also have no problem in principle if a foreigner comes in with money that wants to do so, but to take into account our constitutional and legal order, to allow union organisation, to allow workers to participate in profits, to enable local communities to be involved and to be listed. However, if we read this law, and what we have been looking at for three and a half years — a derogation from the work of the National Assembly or in the more popular language, the government behaves in a way that you can do, because you are here for a little decoration, the opposition will be bent on something, and the coalition, if they don't fall on their noses, will burn anything we suggest. And we allowed ourselves this derogation. To a large extent, it was allowed by the SMC. And I hope that, after the next call, no one will have 20 votes, so that we can start to think a little bit. In fact, this law proposes that some large co-financing from the State Minor should burn the government through the National Assembly, which is at odds with the basis of the opinion of constitutional parliamentary democracy. And secondly, you probably don't even need to be a constitutional lawyer in the way you want to take discharges to find that this is a grave anti-constitutional intervention in the autonomy of local self-government.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u142	Explanation of voice in its own name, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. I will, of course, support both our amendments, in particular to delete Article 7. In this case, if we don't get support, I'm against this law. Because it's a law that shouldn't even be found here on our table, never. This is a total sale, predation, looting and stripping of everyone and everyone on behalf of large capital. As the predecessors have already said, of course we are for jobs, of course, if they respect our environmental and social standards, people are welcome. But certainly not that whoever has 40 million and comes to our door can do whatever he wants and blow whatever he thinks he likes that moment. From the point of view of the Modern Centre Party, I think that the KPK should jump to the sky right now and think hard. The fact that the direction of the development of Slovenia is capital, as the Secretary of State has said, is also something that should make many institutions in this country jump to the sky, because this means that we are completely unnecessary both the National Assembly and all other institutions. In short, it is not surprising that in this mandate we have witnessed the complete deregulation of everything and everyone, such jobs, the prices of gasoline to anything. We now have before us the disenfranchisement of citizens on behalf of capital. We must absolutely not allow this, because public interest is not at odds with the interest of capital here, but public interest is the common sense that cannot allow it in any way. The capital is only interested in the cost of the labour force, they don't care what environment they leave behind and what they leave behind. I will absolutely support our amendment, and I will oppose this harmful law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u144	A self-explanation of the vote, Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u145	Yes, I am also reminding you once again of the violation of Article 69 of the Constitution. When someone says they're going to study him with care. Look, it's not a constitutional category, nor is it in the legal language, so it's totally wrong. Some bureaucrats who made a party two months before the elections are now talking about a business environment. Whatever they touched, they made the business environment worse — bureaucratic barriers, taxes, taxes, whatever it was. And then they adopt some special law at the end to prepare some criteria so that they can live politically at the expense of this work here in Parliament. They don't give a fuck about the constitution. They violated, took away the mandate, fell in the Constitutional Court, tried to bypass the so-called constitutionally rejected act, as constitutional lawyers for Mira Cerar and his team said regarding the financing of the private school system. Look, the Second indent Act has literally fallen in the Constitutional Court. He fell because the Constitutional Court gave instructions to the Supreme Court. Whatever you touch, as far as the constitution is concerned, you have failed, and in no case has yours failed. After that, they'll remember you three months after your term of office is over. Anything you touch. Today you must turn on the red light that the Left and the SDS are even for some common amendment and against it. This means that something is really wrong, dear colleagues and colleagues. I warn you, I do not want to violate the Constitution as a Member. I'm in favour of investment, but I'm sorry, but when it comes to decommissioning, where you have no legitimate interest, what is a proportionate intervention in a matter where you have no argument at all, you can't talk about it. This is where it goes across the border. It's an eccentric breach. But not to say what happened after lex Magna, what non-transparent procedures were then conducted, despite the fact that SDS and everyone else confirmed lex Magna, and then the theft squared, literally. That's why we're warning you. As I said before, I am of the same opinion as the Group of Members. We will support the amendment of the Left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u146	Is there any other explanation? Don't you? We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 32. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of Article 7 of the Left Group has not been adopted, the amendment to Article 24 has become irrelevant. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendment was not adopted for the second reading of the amendment to the amended bill, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. What? [[advertising from the hall]] I'm breaking up. He wants an explanation. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u147	Yes, thank you for your word. There's another big problem we haven't mentioned. I thought my colleague Beznik would mention him. In principle, you say that, of course, this is a law that equates domestic and foreign investments. In a lot of ways, so little at first, you're talking about industrial revolution 4.0. If you go to see how high this threshold is, in fact, almost excludes domestic investment. I don't have a capital problem. If the Secretary of State continued this sentence: based on the constitutional basis, in common good and non-breeding labour legislation and so on. [[…]] What is the problem of Slovenia after 25 years, which even very difficult said by the lady from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, and therefore is not Levica's fault? Profitability per capital in Slovenia. The worst of us in the European Union are only Cyprus, for some other reason, and Bulgaria. It's not a problem for workers who burn themselves over their own chances. The problem is those who have often received some awards from the manager of the year. If you have someone who can elevate capital, then what? Through SDH with some ordered studies, if I say just one case in Hungary, you want to crush Krka. I mean, good afternoon. You should be locked up after KZ, in fact. Just like the Spring Year would say it's a gift of neo-colonialism. In human language, it's literally like that, if someone comes with money, we'll drop our pants and say, do what you want to do to us. Of course, no responsible politicians can support this and we will therefore vote against it in Levica. I call on the others to remember Article 82 of the Constitution. None of us are bound to do what the party or anyone tells us to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u148	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u149	Yeah, look, we're not going to support the anti-constitutional law. It is not just an unconstitutional law, but I can now explain that it is a law that divides foreign and Slovenian entrepreneurs between first-class and second-class. Slovenia is full of smaller companies, smaller individuals, and these individuals have many know-how also for large multinationals, have rode some market niche and are working. If we knew the Slovenian economic system, we would know that Slovenia does not actually have multinationals, perhaps other than Gorenje, Krka, but all the rest are medium-sized enterprises and mostly smaller companies. Smaller companies don't have the capital to come into this law at all. So what happens now? So first-class and second-rate in the environment, which you have further destroyed in three and a half years. Eight thousand 500 people come into the public sector in half a year, during the fourth industrial revolution, at a time when complete databases with the help of artificial intelligence come together, where any work that is a recurring monotonous work will literally no longer need a workforce. Taxes remain at a pre-crisis level, at 22%, of income scales which are unstimulating for top engineers to come to Slovenia. Slovenian technical intelligence is completely alienated from public decision-making. Slovenian technical intelligence goes to Germany, Austria, Switzerland, to America, where they have a good business environment. And at the end, when it's all ruined, you come up with a law that will literally burn ours and yours, and then you'll get the money, just like Magno's 40 million, then we'll barter a little bit further and then we'll go ahead. We must say no to such politicians, determined not!, and to such laws. This is a typical law, as the KPK would say, where there is a basis for typical systemic corruption. It's a typical law for systemic corruption. Entrepreneurship can breathe the same and must have the same air, the same space to breathe and to develop. And in Slovenia, entrepreneurship in bureaucratic thinking, in entrepreneurial non-freedom, in a school monopoly that is not being adapted at all, which you hold on to the status quo, which does not at all give the personnel that serious companies need, you want another law at the end of this term that will devote a few of your entrepreneurs. And who are mostly major entrepreneurs in Slovenia? Most of the time, those who have stolen social property have stolen employment and are now on the Slovenian-born left. That's the worst. These are not small family companies, which are very few to develop to a status where they could step up or even have conditions for such a law. That is why we keep this in mind in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and that is why we will be against such a law that is unconstitutional and ultimately gives some comfort to some dedicated people and also provides the basis for systemic corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u150	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament? Explanation on behalf of the SMC Group, Mr Danilo Anton Ranc.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u151	President, thank you for saying so. I'd like to turn the debate a little bit in the direction of thinking. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u152	Please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u153	I will, I will. That's all for the introduction. As far as the law is concerned, I think I, as a Member, will also support the Group of Members. Above all, we are thinking in this direction that it is necessary to encourage investors, and above all that we are equalising domestic and foreign investors. I don't know why we've always had a law to encourage foreign investors, now we're talking about domestics, but the euro is the euro, whether it's domestic or foreign. Of course, this is an additional challenge for domestic investors to decide on strategic loads. And what is strategic about us? Whoever has read this law in detail also sees that this law also offers opportunities for investments in environmentally sound technologies, that this law provides for a regulation that can be used by scoring to promote investments based on natural renewable resources. But I don't understand why we don't support such a law. I think that's the long-term correct course. And even when we're talking about new jobs, I don't understand the colleagues from Levice here who are advocating new jobs, but when we launch, we create conditions for domestic investors and we encourage investment in sectors that may not have had opportunities so far, for example, industries that are reducing carbon footprints, environmentally friendly, energy-efficient. Here I see the essential advantage of this law, and I call on everyone to support it, as will the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u154	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament? No, no, no. Explanation of the vote in its own name Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u155	Thank you for your word. The coalition voting machine, which has the most buttons here, will re-vote the anti-constitutional law. Of course, the most important thing is how much money they have, while the social and environmental component obviously is not important, and public interest is not important. And it doesn't matter how much noise, smell, environmental discharges into the ground these investments will bring into the water. And it doesn't matter what's most sad about the fact that full-time workers live below the poverty line and have trouble living through the month so they can't live properly. It doesn't matter either. I am absolutely voting against such a law. I find it unacceptable for the coalition to vote in such a way. Okay, SMC, as I've said many times before, is a party without smell, color and taste, but that Desus and SD support it, it seems terrible to me. The more you work, the more damage you do. And as my colleague Trček said in one of the previous discussions, the next government will have a lot of work to do to correct what you will now do before the elections with these keys that the citizens have given you, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u156	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u157	Thank you for your word. When a law tries to regulate something systemic in an area to use the loving word SMC and this coalition, then the law must also contain these dimensions. If we have three dimensions of entrepreneurship emanating from the Constitution, they should be contained in this law. There is no safeguard in this law regarding work rights and no serious protection against the ecological component. To say that this will be regulated in some rules, you know, we have a rich tradition of how through the ministries, past the National Assembly by lobbying through some regulations, a lot of things happen. We can remember that story when it got crazy when he tried to make the community lobby angry, so he couldn't collect the stoppers anymore. We should ask ourselves why we collect stoppers — for some operations or something. Another issue is that an absolute regular professor of law should not afford — to move a matter from one area to another. Decommissioning is the area of spatial legislation. Even if they weren't unconstitutional, it's settled there, not that we're getting into some other law. Because then we have what? What do we got? We've got everything a little shabby, we've got a whole series of areas where the system law has split into two, three laws. We've got about a million rules. At the same time, you will hear how you are a new policy, which is very much in favour of reducing bureaucratic burdens. And you, I'm sorry, don't often have some basic logic at the level of the first triad of primary school. I do not wish to be offensive, but after three years after all, because you had the most money to train from all Members and Members of Parliament, you should not afford such a thing, even if you were spatial sociologists themselves and there was one lawyer among you. That's why I'm voting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u158	Is there any other explanation? More. I'm asking you to sign up. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mrs Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u159	Thank you so much for saying that. I cannot support this law alone because there are many reasons not to support it. I'm talking about decommissioning, I'm talking about presenting them as public interest, which we can't be public interest. I am talking about that without a call for tender, funds can be allocated to sell public infrastructure at prices that are significantly lower than market prices. In short, the reasons for voting against is enormous, and these reasons are such that this law is contrary to the public interest. I won't support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u160	Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must say, I will not support this marriage. It's just that we have a little private interest, if you want, to completely ignore and declare some public interest, some big capital for the general interest, and then hit a man. Very simple, very simple We have of course had some cases recently, clearly, Magna is the one that is burdening us all the time, but with Magna, I must remind you, it was the problem that we overrun the most beautiful agricultural land, so we said then, let it be an exception, not a rule. Of course, I mean and insist that this is an exception. That's why Magno would forget, even though he's always been a model of how effective it was, how good it was. We do, for example, Yaskawo, which is an extraordinary investment, but where there was no problem, because they stuck to our rules of the game, if you want, they invested where it was possible. That's why I'm against getting a small person, a small private interest in an individual, for example, a wider interest. As far as the derogation from the National Assembly is concerned, what has been our problem since the first day of this composition does not satisfy me the answer I received yesterday that this is a European model and that is what governments are doing elsewhere. I don't think that these governments are doing anything else; I think that in Europe, yes, but for us, it's simply not because there are too many things going on too far between us as elected Members in a wide range of areas. We'd like to go here, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u162	Explanation of the vote in its name mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will not support this marriage. Although, on the other hand, I have to say what I've said here repeatedly to support all the investments. And here I have probably also experienced the obvious that I am advocating neoliberal politics, the multiple obvious that capital should come to Slovenia and so on. I actually support that. But at this point, I can calmly say that capital also has limits. And if he doesn't create a border himself, then he's responsible for those boundaries and he has to set these borders of the country. And these limits are that you can't outrun this capital if you want, a small man, and take away what he actually has, because that property is also his right. There's an act of human rights here. And you who advocate such solutions have an impact on human rights. And if anyone, then the capital will be limited by the state by the constitutional order we have done, and by the legislation. That's how the whole world works. And that's what all the developed countries do. And because of this, if we belong to developed European countries, we will do the same ourselves, not to violate some constitutional principle on private property. And that's what we're actually doing. It's not neoliberalism, it's, ladies and gentlemen, neocolonialism. This was sometimes done by countries that were under colonies. And Slovenia does not deserve such solutions. Slovenians and Slovenians have not chosen Members and Members to actually accept solutions that border non-neocolonialism. And I will be firm against this legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u164	How much more interest is there to explain? Self-explanation of the vote [[…]] [[advertising in the hall]] I just have to fulfill my function, just like everyone else. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u165	Thank you. In fact, once again we should stress what is already the case with colleague Breznik, which is of course alarming, so that we agree in some way both in SDS and in Levica on certain aspects. I must also admit that I agree with the last part of the explanation of my colleague Shirtzl's vote. Of course, we're not talking about anything but neocolonialism. It is literally that if you press the "for" button for this law, you will open the door to literally sell out, but not the ordinary sale that we have witnessed for decades, but to go against the stop to relax people and land. That's why we renamed this marriage in Levica into "lex Magna for everyone". We've seen what Magna brought, it's not about any greenfield investment, it's about dirty investments coming from countries that don't want to take such production processes on their territory. We now have essentially an upgrade of this model, which was prepared for one company, to the whole of Slovenia. So we open doors not to greenfield investments, not to be blinded, but, of course, to dirty investments at the expense of those who would like to take such investments elsewhere. And it's colonialism, it says that if such a law is adopted by this National Assembly, forgive the expression, we really are a banana republic, that we are prepared or ready to sell for a few million, and in particular to do harm to our fellow citizens and fellow inhabitants of this Republic. Given that this amendment has not been adopted that this provision remains in this law, of course I appeal to common sense and, as France has previously said, to consider what your constitutional rights as Members are, so that you do not vote in favour because you are part of the voting machinery, but at least once, but, given that the actual end of this term is coming, turn it on, I will not say reason, but I will say conscience and do not support this law. I'll be absolutely against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u166	Please sign up. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u167	Thank you for your word, chairman. So for at least three years now, explicitly, since the start of the current government's mandate, we can follow one and only one economic strategy. Social dumping, environmental dumping, wage dumping, we are going to cut down all kinds of standards that protect our environment, which protect the wages of our people, who protect the social security of all, the poorest and working families. Why does a policy do that, you'll ask. Yes, with a desire to please multinational corporations to move their production here and on our people and exploit our natural resources make profits. We, the piggy itself, remain broken workers' backs and the state budget remains empty, from which the public goods instances are financed. This is not a development strategy, it is an anti-development strategy, a Bulgarian development model if you want. And the law that we are about to vote on now is being incorporated into this indevelopment strategy. So for scraps sell everything that's good, some multinational corporation that comes through with a suitcase of money. But the Slovenian Ministry of Economy, under this government, obviously doesn't know anything else. They don't need lobbyists at the Ministry at all because their biggest friend is sitting at the top of this ministry, and their other biggest friends are his coworkers at this ministry. This is not the Ministry of Economy, which would work for a high added value for the general social effects or for a workshop of neighbor John, who is a craftsman, no, this is the Ministry that works for multinational corporations, and wants all of them to stand up to the same [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u168	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u169	We need to explain a few more things. I explained earlier how you literally made it worse or almost destroyed the Slovenian business environment, which is why all the investments that will come if this law succeeds, mostly investments where we will be able to offer a cheap labour force, will not be some development centres here in this area, because this labour force is in fact almost gone, and on the other hand it is too taxed and any serious, even a larger enterprise with high added value, is behind a whole range of bureaucratic barriers. This law is unconstitutional. This is impossible to defend before the Constitutional Court. Disposal for some company that will employ maybe some 5 or some 10 people is impossible to defend, but property rights are not an absolute category, but you need to know, you declassify people because of some highway, plumbing, because of some important roads that concern thousands of people in one part of a country, which are particularly important for development, especially for human health, safety and everything else. Here, my dear fellow, it is something, including just a few 10 jobs that would have happened. This is impossible to defend and defend some proportionate interference with property rights, where it will be dispossessed, is not possible. Look, I've been talking to some of my colleagues, top constitutional international lawyers, it's impossible, it's an anti-constitutional law. We're gonna get the bomb back, along with everything that follows what they said. Here I also agree with my colleague Shirtzle, it is neo-colonialism, it has nothing to do with some serious capitalism that we are advocating in the Slovenian Democratic Party, where there is still a strong social state in the back. And look at the investment, Magna only brought here the painting in the first phase because they are waiting for the Slovenian business environment to be better, Yaskawa is the story of colleague Tanka and Ribnica, after she made it there, she went into some environment because there is a good business environment because they kept it in the Ribnica that had nothing. That is why I am asking you to vote against it because it is a big mistake with regard to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u170	Procedurally, Mr. Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u171	Thank you. Before, I didn't want to smoke my limited minutes in explanation of my voice for this, but I have to answer now. Look, I mean, here are the coalition MPs in particular, the number three of us were to explain our voices, and they get up from their chairs and start chattering so that the whole hall is full of them, past the microphone. How can a person put two serious sentences together if he does not even hear his own thoughts? The President, please, if you warn Members that they will calm down a little bit and these explanations of vote can go quietly forward because this is not how it works. I mean, you chat like the last bench in third grade.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u172	I mean, I've been to a lot of parliaments, and I've seen what things actually look like there, and this is still quite peaceful. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, but nothing's gonna help. [[…]] If we continue to proceed with the procedure now, we will immediately end the matter, so I would like to ask that we take this matter to a close or calm down a little bit. But we can also calm down in such a way as to take a break. We'll resume the session at 3:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u173	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We have another explanation for the vote and then we would vote if possible. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Respectable fellows, fellows! This question of Article 7, which is highlighted, is in place. I agree with some that it is a questionable, whether it is a decommissioning purpose, is the true construction of a factory, the purpose which excuses decommissioning. When we talk about some unconstitutionality, of course, we are all aware that the Constitutional Court is what it says is, whether this is the right purpose or whether it is an excessive intervention in property rights. I don't want to prejudge that. However, I understand this law as such, designed in such a way that decommissioning is an extreme measure. I am sure that none of the foreign investors will afford to go with the help of the Government and the other institutions into decommissioning without first trying to buy off certain land. What I want to point out is, my colleague Shircelj was talking about the limits that capital has. I say so, capital has borders on our external border, the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. When one firm comes in, when the $200 million option comes in, we say no. We always say no. But when the capital goes out of the country, then there's no limit. I wonder if this is how we are going to act if we are to expect all potential investors, how much of the investments we have managed to make in this mandate, we will get even more. And then we are not surprised that there are no jobs, no development, no social well-being. I have no doubt about whether this law is supported or not. If there is any potential unconstitutionality, the Constitutional Court will be asked to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u175	We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 31. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude the 10th item of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on additional measures to remedy the effects of damage caused by the overcrowding of the population of subscribers under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled in 13. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 1. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 45. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 13. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 46. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded by deciding on the amendments and second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading and the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly at this meeting, carry out a third examination of the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 9. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 1 of the amended bill. On the basis of Article 138(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Since I've been assigned to read this matter, I'll just read it. You know, there is always something going down, but on behalf of the coalition's members, I predict that in the third reading of the bill we will table an amendment that will harmonise the text of the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Article 1 and add the missing word "trees", which has fallen out by mistake. So it's some kind of editorial correction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u177	A third consideration of the bill will be carried out by the National Assembly on Tuesday 20th. 2. 2018, after the final vote. I'm putting an end to the 13th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 24. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Multi-Convention on the implementation with international tax agreements of related measures to prevent a reduction in the tax base and the diversion of profits. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendment at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude the 24th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 26. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the examination of the motion for election to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Postojna. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of the Magi. Manice Kodric in judicial capacity at the District Court of the District Court in Postojna. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor, on behalf of the Council of Justice, to the District Judge Maja Rozman.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u178	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! On the invitation to tender for the free seat of the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Postojna, the Court of Justice elected a mag. Manico Kodric is proposing to the National Assembly for election. At the District Court in Postojna in 2017, the number of judges fell from 4 to 3, leaving one district court seat for which the budgetary resources are provided unscathed. And since the burden of the other three judges in the District Court in Postojna is full, the District Court in Postojna as a result currently has no judge to handle civil matters. 34 candidates applied for the invitation to tender, of which three candidates withdrew their candidacy. The selection process in the Council of Justice took place, as always, in several stages, with the gradual elimination of candidates. On the basis of the documentary documentation and oral interviews with the selected candidates, the Council of Justice identified the knowledge and skills and personality of the candidates. In addition to the various qualifications, such as the success of college education, the Court of Justice carried out an evaluation of the eligibility of candidates during the second phase of the selection procedure, taking into account the final opinion of the President of the District Court in Cyprus, in addition to the various qualifications gained in the course of the legal examination. Taking that into account, the Court of Justice then invited 14 candidates to the oral hearing, either after the qualified persons were exposed or on the basis of the opinion of the President of the District Court. On the basis of such a selection procedure, the Court of Justice assessed that Mag. Manica Kodric, in its entirety, best meets the conditions laid down by the Judicial Service Act as necessary for the performance of judicial service. Mag. Manica Kodrič, born 1981, graduated from the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana with an average grade of 8.92 and defended her diploma with a mark. The legal examination was carried out in 2008 with an average score of 9.50. At the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana she then obtained the title of Master of Science in 2016. Since her legal examination, she has continued to work at the Supreme Court in Ljubljana as an expert at the Civil Division. At the same time, she was also familiar with the field of enforcement and economic law while working in the Civil Division. In its final opinion, the President of the District Court in Cyprus notes that Mag. Manica Kodric meets the conditions for the sitting of the Court of Justice and, in particular, points out that the candidate, in her interview with the President, has demonstrated good knowledge of civil law and general knowledge of the functioning of the judiciary, as well as knowledge of the Code of Judicial Ethics. It also follows from the opinion of the Head of the Civil Court in Ljubljana that the candidate is responsible, has the ability to make her own decisions and legal courage, is able to quickly identify essential legal and factual issues and logical conclusions. The work shall demonstrate adequate criticalness and good expertise. He shall perform all duties within the time limit set. Data on the so far part of mag. Manice Kodric thus shows that the candidate has been doing an excellent job as a professional co-worker for over 9 years. Through its long-term employment in the Higher Court of Justice in Ljubljana, she has demonstrated over-average work performance, which is confirmed by the assessments of her professional work. She acquired her very good legal knowledge at the time of her studies and builds it up with additional education. Its knowledge of foreign languages is also highlighted, as it actively speaks English, German and Spanish and at the basic level Italian and Croatian. Mag. Manica Kodric also had a remarkable success in talking with members of the Council of Justice. It further confirmed that it has in-depth legal knowledge in the civil field in which it is expected to carry out its work. She answered the questions raised in a sovereign manner, and she also showed very good verbal ability. Her analytical and logical thinking abilities can be assessed as excellent. It is therefore proposed by the Council of Justice to the National Assembly for election to the judicial function for the vacant seat of the District Court at the District Court in Postojna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u179	The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the working body of the State to report in writing to the Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a motion for a decision that will give rise to the judicial function of the District Court of Justice in the Permanent Court of Justice. Manica Kodrich. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We move on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Council for Electronic Communications of the Republic of Slovenia The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling a mag as a member of the Council for Electronic Communications of the Republic of Slovenia for the remainder of the mandate of the various experts in the field of electronic communications. Simon Sirc. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We move on to the examination of the Conclusion on the termination of the mandate of the members of the Slovenian Radio Television Supervisory Board Damjan Damjanovich is 22. 1. 2018 He submitted to the National Assembly a statement of resignation from the City of Supervisory Board Radiotelevision Slovenia. On the basis of the above-mentioned Rules of Procedure, the Council of State proposes that, pursuant to Article 26, paragraph 7, of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia and Article 112, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following decision be taken: “It shall be established that Damjan Damjanović has resigned from the seat of the Supervisory Board of Radiotelevision of Slovenia and therefore, pursuant to Article 26, paragraph 7, of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia shall terminate the mandate of a member of the Supervisory Board of Radiotelevision of Slovenia.” I'm guessing the National Assembly has made a decision. I hereby conclude the 26th item of the agenda and interrupt the 38th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 11 a.m. Now I congratulate our athletes for their success and thank them for their optimism. At the same time, I note that the Constitution is still in force, regardless of what laws we adopt in this national assembly.
