ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 11th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened under Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Monika Gregorčič, Janja Sluga, Ferenc Horváth from 3 p.m., Primož Siter from 13 p.m. to 18 p.m., Nataša Sukič, Felice Žiža, Jožef Horvat, Jernej Vrtovec, Ljudmila Novak until 5 p.m., Iva Dimic from 17.15 p.m. and mag. Andrej Shircelj, Eva Irgle, Dr. Franc Trček, Gregor Perič and from 15 to 16 am expected to be absent by myself. I invited a representative of the Council of Justice to the second item and representatives of the Government to the two agenda items. I welcome all those present politely. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to address the National Assembly before we arrive at the agenda for the meeting. Dear fellow Members, honourable fellow Members, the honourable assembly! Allow me this honorable act to address you from this pay phone on the day of sovereignty, a state holiday that marks the day that the last soldier of the Yugoslav Army left the Slovenian territory after the independence war. The Day of Remembrance, which symbolizes the final act in the exercise of the rights of the Slovenian people to self-determination. The Day of Remembrance of a key step of own power over our territory and the formation of our Slovenian state. However, the fight for freedom and democracy did not end when the boot of the last foreign soldier withdrew from our territory. It is a process that continues today, both symbolically and effectively. Every day we must fight, prove and demonstrate our clear commitment to democracy and freedom. He began by clearly expressing the free will of people and is closely linked to respect for the rule of law and respect for the individual, his rights and freedoms. Although the place of political reality that we live in today is different from what we have lived in the beginning of our country, it is becoming more unpredictable and more complex. We carry our identity, self-image and values from that time forward. They represent a great responsibility to fight against everything and anyone who commits violence or intimidation against human dignity, his pride and his freedom. A hateful and impatient speech is a phenomenon that denies the individual and the community of this right. The hate speech is most often affected by very vulnerable groups of people, citizens and citizens who need our greatest care and attention, while at the same time it is insidious, a social dispersor who creates all society and all its subsystems. The fight against hate speech must not only be a political project but must be a common moral, legal and political commitment of the whole society and of every individual in it. In particular, we, the elected representatives of the people, have a responsibility to ourselves, our citizens and citizens, including other citizens and citizens of the European Union and beyond, to the international community, to confront the divisive patterns of hatred, xenophobia and intolerance, which also requires some human courage. The courage of unity and the amazing acts we were able to perform at the time of our country's independence. At that time, we were courageous, and it is important that we be courageous today. This is a science taught by the history of the struggle for the creation of the Slovenian State of the Republic of Slovenia. Respectable, respected, honest congratulations on the day of sovereignty! Dear Members, we are now moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 11th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Tuesday 23 October 2018, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for enlargement. I therefore propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. With this, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a decision. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. 76 Members and Members are present, and we have all voted in favour. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I therefore note that the agenda of the 11th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item — First draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Added Value Tax Act. The draft law was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Daniel Krivec. With regard to this bill, a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Mark Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u2	Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have included in the legislative process of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia a proposal to amend the Law on Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act. There are several reasons for the proposal to amend the Value Added Tax Act. With the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014, adopted on 21 May 2013, the levels of value added tax were increased. The overall rate increased from 20% to 22% and the reduced rate increased from 8.5% to 9.5%. The then government of Alenka Bratušek, who proposed the law, stated that it was a temporary anti-crisis measure that would take two years to stabilise public finances. However, in the amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, the government of Dr. Mir Cerar proposed that higher levels of value added tax should become permanent. The Coalition of Parties – The Parties of the Modern Centre, Desus and Social Democrats held a meeting of the National Assembly on 18 November 2015 to legalise higher levels of value added tax than permanent ones. The legalisation of the permanent amount of value added tax rates was unreasonable, unnecessary and particularly socially criminal. The value added tax is a regressive or non-social tax that affects those who have the lowest income because they pay it the most in terms of their income. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that value added tax should return to the so-called pre-crisis level. The proposed law therefore aims to reduce value added tax rates to pre-crisis levels, to reduce the overall rate from current 22% to 20%, thus depriving citizens, particularly those with the lowest income, while also encouraging consumption, which would have a beneficial impact on economic growth and competitiveness, and thus ultimately on revenues into the state budget. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, with the proposed amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, we also propose to introduce an additional reduced value added tax rate in Slovenia as well as in many European Union countries, i.e. two reduced value added tax rates, first at 8,5 % and second at 5%, involving children's clothing and footwear, firefighting equipment, basic life products such as bread, cheese, eggs, fruit and vegetables. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this change would benefit both the economy and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We are convinced that the revenues in the budget are high enough that this amendment of the law to the added value or reduction should not cover the impact on public finances. Moreover, we are convinced that such a measure would further encourage consumption and thus increase revenue in the budget and in the public treasury. In 2018, around €1.4 billion is expected to receive more revenue from the state budget than in 2014. We are therefore convinced in the Slovenian Democratic Party that it would be fair, social and ethical for the value added tax to return to the pre-crisis level. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that economic growth should also be known in the pockets of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed amendment of the law and the return of value added tax to the pre-crisis level and the application of a reduced value added tax rate of 5% for so-called emergency life products would have a direct impact on the decline and reduction of prices of products, services and a positive measure on the family budget, without jeopardising the stability and sustainability of public finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I now give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mag. Sasha the Badger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u4	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Group of Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Added Value Tax Act with the aim of reducing VAT rates to pre-crisis levels, i.e. before July 2013, and introducing a second additional lower VAT rate. To this end, a proposal for a law from 1 January 2019 proposes a reduction in the general VAT rate to 20%, a lower VAT rate to 8.5% and an additional lower VAT rate of 5%, which would also apply to certain supplies of goods for which a lower VAT rate is not foreseen under the VAT Directive. The solutions proposed are intended to have an impact on the reduction in prices of goods and services and thus encourage consumption, which would have a beneficial impact on economic growth and competitiveness, as well as on revenues in the national budget. The government opposes the proposal because of the need to continue fiscal consolidation with the aim of medium-term balance and to ensure growth and underlines the following. Public finances of the country's central and local levels, as well as social security funds, under the assumption of unchanged policies, remain stable and create a surplus of the country's sector. The country's surplus in 2018 is foreseen at 0.5% of gross domestic product and the surplus is reduced to 0.2% of GDP in 2019 without measures. The country's overrun is due to positive economic trends, interest rate reductions and to this year's stranded expenditure. During the period 2015-2018, revenue growth averaged 4,2 % and exceeded expenditure growth by 3,3 %. The average increase in expenditure over the same period was 0.9 %. However, Slovenia is still far from its medium-term objective, as enshrined in the Constitution, on the assumption that there are no policy changes. This government will therefore continue fiscal consolidation with the objective of medium-term balance and with a focus on ensuring growth over the period 2018-2022. These are the central elements of the Stability and Growth Pact. So far fiscal consolidation has been beneficial for growth in consumption and exports, which have driven growth, and some measures have already been released under the assumption of unchanged policies. Thus, fiscal projections take into account all legal measures taken as well as the desire to mobilise EU funds more rapidly, and we pay particular attention to the level of investment in terms of GDP. In the tax area, government activities are still focused on the preparation of solutions based on the principle of fair and equitable burden-sharing towards the restructuring of the burden of public duties and the reduction of administrative barriers, with a view to maintaining the stability of public finances. Measures in the tax area which have a significant impact on public financial revenues should therefore only be imposed in a financially neutral manner at the time when the desired structural balance has not yet been reached. It should be borne in mind that the impact of the implementation of the proposal for a VAT deduction was estimated at EUR 330 million at an annual level, which would be estimated to result from the proposed change in VAT rates to the level established before July 2013, or an additional drop of around EUR 250 million as a result of the introduction of an additional lower VAT rate of 5% for selected supplies of goods and services. The overall financial impact of the bill would therefore be around €580 million lower VAT revenues in the state budget. The current budgetary position of Slovenia does not offer the possibility of reducing VAT rates without simultaneous measures on the revenue and or on the expenditure side. The discussion on the VAT system in Slovenia, according to the Government's assessment, would be more appropriate following the adoption of the reform of the updated VAT system by establishing a definitive VAT system for cross-border trade within the EU, under which the reform of the VAT system is also planned. Dear Members and Members! Taking into account this Government's proposal to this Act, it also proposes not to support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u5	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State for your opinion. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc and, in its name, Mr Igor Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u6	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, distinguished guests! In the Marjan Šarc page, we are somewhat surprised that in such a short time the draft law on amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act has been transmitted for the third time. Although identical proposals were considered in March and October 2017 without the proposal to introduce a second lower rate. The proposal states that the financial effects of the proposed amendment are not, or that they would be, eliminated because of the increased consumption of consumers, as well as by encouraging greater consumption, which would also have a beneficial impact on economic growth. However, the proposal does not contain any financial calculations. On the other hand, an assessment by the Ministry of Finance was made to ensure that the overall impact of the reduction in value added tax rates and the introduction of an additional lower rate would result in almost EUR 580 million falling from the state budget, of which EUR 330 million was reduced by a reduction in the general and lower rates and an additional EUR 250 million by introducing an additional lower rate. The EU Council is already having a debate on a legislative package of value added tax changes, and we believe that it would be much more appropriate to reconsider the system of lower value added tax rates in Slovenia once an updated VAT system is adopted at European Union level. At this point, more than half of the Member States have a higher overall level than the proposed and only five have a reduced second rate. The budgetary situation does not give an opportunity to reduce value added tax rates without simultaneous action on the revenue or expenditure side. The objective to follow is to normalise the structure of taxes, not to unilaterally and unforeseeablely reduce or increase without a comprehensive analysis of the effects on the budget. This requires an integrated treatment with a view to pursuing the fiscal objective and fiscal consolidation. In the future, we must continue the fiscal consolidation with the objective of managing the sovereign budget debt. The proposal also states that the introduction would solve the problems of socially disadvantaged citizens, but it does not specify where or how they would get this deficit back, so that they would be collected from the social transfer budget. Among other things, the introduction of a second lower rate at one kilogram of bread means less than four cents. We believe that at this stage we will do more with the measures already planned, by raising the percentage of the pension calculation rate, with social transfers that will remain at existing level while exercising restrictive control over the eligibility of receipts, as well as by raising the minimum wage. Finally, the question arises: Will suppliers of goods and services, when the value added tax is reduced, really lower prices? Will the difference remain in margin increases and the prices of products and services remain the same? The latter means that citizens will not be burdened with the lowest income, nor will it stimulate consumption growth, as indicated in the proposal. We are open to proposals in the Marjan Šarc list and are also taking them seriously. Once again, we stress that we cannot treat them unilaterally, so we cannot support such a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u8	President, thank you for your word. Respectable from the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Today is or will be easier on this side than on this side. I am aware that we are talking about an important matter, but I want us to be realistic in particular, that we will not sound too ideologically on an important subject concerning each individual in the country. Changes and additions to the Value Added Tax Act were often discussed by the National Assembly in the past term. As many as eight amendments to this law have been tabled in the parliamentary procedure over the past four years. The most common and also the easiest was the proposal that the VAT rates that were in 2013 be increased, reduced or refunded to 20 % and 8 % during the worst crisis. The main argument of the proposer for this step and at the same time the only one is: “The crisis is over and it is also right to end the anti-crisis measures.” Additional proposals suggest that we also introduce a new, additionally reduced VAT rate in Slovenia to a whole range of products and services, from food and medicines to energy products, children's clothing and firefighting equipment. Despite several unsuccessful attempts, the SDS Group has again decided to table this bill – legitimately, normally and clearly, because they are the opposition party, and the question is whether we can do everything in reality, because we know that we have a public sector on our feet, because we know that we want to build a third development axis, that we want to build a second track without Hungary, that I do not list everything that is likely to happen in two, three months' time in the National Assembly, whose ideas are going to fall, what should all of us do in this country. The applicants argue that, in the case of VAT, it is a social tax that relatively burdens the socially weaker, which they spend most of their income on indirect consumption. They therefore consider that the reduction of tax rates would be socially fair and would help to deplete people. From this point of view, gentlemen of the SDS, I find this argument logical and it is also possible to agree with it. But to understand this problem you need to see a bigger and broader picture, and this view often falls out in explanation of similar proposals. When we discuss and decide on the level of individual taxpayers, we must therefore, in the opinion of the Social Democrats, also have answers to some logical and normal questions when we discuss them. One question: how would such a move affect the revenue of the State Treasury and the ability of the State to act and carry out its tasks for the benefit of the people? Don't mind, but I'll answer it myself. The ability of the State to help people in the crisis would simply be reduced. The second question we would like to address is: Would this result in price cuts? Would people increase their income available? My sincere personal opinion, ladies and gentlemen, is no. Because for this 2% when a tax is reduced, somewhere 5%, I guarantee you that most of this money will remain on the market. People wouldn't feel a way of lowering the prices of these basic products, and they wouldn't, if you asked me, buy it more massively. But that's my personal answer. Is it true that such a reduction would encourage consumption that would further contribute to further growth? Here I have to say that I can agree in some way, but this would happen in a very small proportion, but with a huge income drop that would also result in such a reduction. What the Secretary of State said and my predecessor, according to the Government's assessment, would be raised by 330 million or 300 million less on the basis of a general reduction in these tax rates in the State budget. Look at how much money it is to essentially reduce our tax. And if we look at this second rate, this 5%, here's the Ministry of Finance's assessment, I hope it holds, another 200 million. It is said that between 500 million and 600 million would be less money than we have today in the budget, for all the ideas this country has and for all the problems. If we know that in this country we are taxing between 3.3 billion and 3.8 billion, we know that we are reducing more than 10% then, I'll say, in a way, the State budget. This seems very problematic to me. This is all at a time when the state still has to reduce public debt. I agree that public debt must be reduced and that we cannot be very much accredited. And to this, my dears, we are always the opposition, and it is also, that the debt must be reduced so that in the next crisis, which is likely to be once, because we know in the economy also the cycles, because the next crisis will come, I hope that as soon as possible, the country can act in the next crisis, even if it saves something. And one more thing. I hope that the Government and the Ministry of Finance will prepare and make some comprehensive tax restructuring, which we have in some way promised people to correct this criminal relationship between the burden of work on the one hand and consumption on the other, and also with the burden of not being overburdened by profits and capital, so that the capital we need in this country is not really made. But if we go the way the proponents suggest, we can't replace these revenues in any way. With each tax change, we need to look at, as I said at the outset, a broader picture, but of course it is good that we have some historical memory in this picture. Such suggestions, my dears, we have seen many times in this short history of our Slovenia. And also harmful effects due to such measures. In 2004-2008, if you remember, we also monitored tax cuts and budget cuts. All of this was also an excuse for decommissioning and promoting competitiveness and economic growth. That was all true. But as long as this economic growth lasted. However, when we came into the economic crisis when there was no money, when the country had in some way no longer had a source, all the effects of that tax burden could simply not have intervened, just as it should have intervened when this economic collapse occurred in some way not only in Slovenia, but throughout the world. That is why we could all learn from this – not because I am a Social Democrat, but because you are a Democrat, but because we are one leftist and another right-wing, in the end we have only one mother of our homeland – that the poverty of the country is not the right way to help these people in some way, and that we cannot lead the country as we would run the company. When it's not, I'll say, economic growth, then the state has to step in with its investments. At least that's how I explain my economy. But I may not be right. You'll probably deny me. In order not only to criticize, because it is not only criticism, but only the view of the Social Democrats on this part of the tax policy, we must add here in the Group of Social Democrats that we are absolutely not opposed to the debate on the potential hardships of socially weak people, including what you are proposing, by introducing additional reductions in the rates of goods and services that are urgently needed for everyday life. On the contrary. But no one can oppose such proposals, nor do we oppose them – but with an implementation and a way that will be feasible and will have one real picture. I believe that only the government can do this, even in cooperation with the opposition and with some realistic view of how to proceed For all these reasons I have said, we will have to reject your proposal, and I believe that we are in one true tax policy, that the tax state will change in a way that we have also promised that they will not hang, but will only be distributed in such a fairer way. Therefore, we cannot support this proposal for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Ms Mateja Udovča has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u10	Your Honor! Today, the National Assembly will hold its first reading of the Proposal for a New Law on Value Added Tax. As the applicant, SDS wants to return the general value added tax rates to 20% and a lower VAT rate to 8.5%, while introducing a new second reduced rate of 5%. They propose a reduction in rates in the SDS because, in their view, it would be a time-limited measure with effect until 2015. Slovenia has recorded economic growth since 2014 and is thus increasing its inflow to the budget. The value added tax is a regressive tax and the most affected are those who have the least. In the SDS, they believe that, due to increased consumption of consumers, better business results, greater uptake of other taxes and contributions, and in particular higher levels of economic growth, the negative impact on the state budget would be eliminated. We do not agree with the SDS proposal for the amendment of the law in the Group of the Modern Centre Party, because since 2015 it has been the eighth attempt to amend this tax either through amendments or amendments to laws. In addition, it is already the fourth attempt by the SDS to amend, and this amendment is identical to the new VAT laws submitted by the Group of Members to the National Assembly for its decision in November and December 2017. In 2015, the National Assembly decided to legislate both current value added tax rates on a proposal from the Government. The SDS claims do not claim that the provisional measure was taken by the government of Alenka Bratušek in 2013. That is when they decided not to impose a crisis tax of 0.5 to 5% on all gross revenues, but to increase the value added tax. The President of the Government informed the public that the package of measures, which, together with the Stability Pact programme, the Government had also sent to the European Commission, included VAT increases. The value added tax raise has at least a negative impact on economic growth as it represents a structural measure for the long-term balance of public finances. The former government has also maintained an increase in the VAT rate to address the excessive deficit and the necessary balance of public finances. This showed that maintaining the increase in tax rates in 2013 did not have a negative impact on the economy and therefore the SDS’s claims to increase the competitiveness of the economy do not stand the test of serious professional judgement. Most experts agree that reducing wage burdens for increasing competitiveness as well as spending is a better measure than reducing VAT. It is true that a positive effect can also be achieved in reducing the added tax, but it is of a more short-term nature. Indeed, the effect would be unique and quickly eradicated, and traders could only raise their margins at a lower VAT rate and the end user would never feel a reduction in the tax. However, when wages are decommissioned, net wages are automatically increased, leading to higher population consumption. The country would collect more taxes on this account, while increasing gross domestic product over a long period of time. We include value added tax among consumption taxes, which means that the final consumer pays it and that each increase in taxes mainly on food and drink, i.e. lower rates of tax, affects consumers with the lowest income. However, it is worth noting that the negative effects of the lower-rate rise were not as high as the applicant showed. As a result of the increase in economic growth, they have already deteriorated to this day. The proposal that we are currently discussing is viewed by the Modern Centre Party as tax populism. The SDS and the governments it led have repeatedly experimented in this area. It was precisely because of the wrong and untimely measures at the start of the global financial and economic crisis that caused a large budget gap of about EUR 500 million. The unconstant fluctuations of SDS and its governments in the formulation of tax policy in the field of VAT suggest that they do not have a serious concept, but are only about adapting daily policies and advocating solutions. In the National Assembly, we held an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, as well as a meeting of the Commission on Public Finance Supervision on the proposal of the SDS, NSI and SNS, to discuss the alleged harmful and destructive measures agreed upon in the Coalition Treaty. The callers argued that the coalition contract exceeded the expenditure imposed by the fiscal rule and that it was unacceptable for the economy and the country. Soon, however, they introduced a witnessing novel that reduces the revenue of the state budget by about €580 million and 6% of the public finances. So within a very short period of time, the SDS was able to forget what they demanded from the ruling coalition or why they were actually taking sides. In the Modern Centre Party, we believe that the Government must insist on this path. The structural balance of the whole country sector must be balanced at the end of 2020 when the medium-term fiscal policy objective is reached. The latter cannot be achieved by reducing public financial revenues in the manner proposed by the SDS. It is important to be aware of potential public financial risks as reckless measures such as the SDS to reduce value added tax would lead to long-term macroeconomic imbalances and exacerbate the fiscal situation of the country. This could mean that Slovenia would again be in a thorough review of the European Commission or of the corrective procedure. However, the extreme measure in the corrective procedure is a two-phase procedure of financial sanctions. First interested deposits amounting to 0.1% of GDP, which may in extreme case become a fine. On the basis of the above facts, the SMC Group will not support the proposals of the new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u11	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. The word shall be given by Luka Moon on behalf of the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u12	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! The drafter of the VAT law, the reduction of VAT rates, SDS is somehow following his pre-election slogan, which reads: less for taxes more for you. Before we define ourselves to the law, let's see if this logic holds up. The reduction is justified by the applicant as a social measure, as most of the VAT is to be paid by the final consumers, and in particular to the poorest. So far, logic endures, it's a regressive and non-social tax. That is why we also opposed the increase in rates in Levica, but the question is what the reduction would mean. It is important to ask what will be the consequences of a reduction of 1 and 2 percent. Will trade from 9.5 to 8.5 for bread actually reduce the price of neighbor's bread by 2 cents? Will the price of coffee fall from 1.6 euros to 1.57 euros in Ljubljana from 22% to 20%, and from 1.10 to 1.08 in the White landscape? The most likely answer is no, as the Government has already justified in its opinion. Prices will remain the same, and the difference between the price remaining the same and the tax which will be lower will be offset by large traders who will wind up margins and businesses. Large traders are already making over half a billion profits a year, and since virtually all but Tuša are in foreign ownership, all profits go abroad — half a billion a year. And they would probably be the biggest beneficiaries of VAT cuts. How much would they give by reducing the VAT, an additional 50, 100, maybe 200 million a year, is less for taxes for you, in fact less for taxes for you, or is less for you traders? Another time. I'm sure if Levits had made such a law, it would have been torn apart by the Legal and Legal Service. Why? In the point of the assessment of the financial implications of the draft law on the state budget, the SDS proposal states, in summary, "that the law will have no negative budgetary implications", and this is based on the fact that the VAT reduction will increase spending and accelerate GDP growth. Really. Our budget, which will be existing before the rebalancing in 2019, weighs €9 billion and €750 million, will receive as much as €3 billion and €750 million, or more than one third of the total revenue. The SDS says that if this VAT revenue, which brings one-third into the budget, is reduced by 10% and we introduce a particularly super-reduced rate, there will be no budgetary implications. How does he base that? With a magic economy, by which lower taxes mean higher revenues to the budget. This justification is written in the law in less than two lines. As it is said, if I were to have such a law in Levi, the law-law service would immediately define it as technically inappropriate, but because it did so, it went through. Anyway, the government gave us a more realistic assessment. In order to reduce VAT, the budget deficit will amount to EUR 580 million per year, I repeat, EUR 580 million per year. For this money, we could make 700 Slovenian films, 50 funds for development and research, give each student in Slovenia a grant of €80,000 per month or every Slovenian pensioner a thousand euros per year. That's 580 million euros. And here it is necessary to ask whether it is truly fair, social and ethical, as the proponent says, that at a time when pensioners expect higher pensions, a higher percentage, when public sector unions, among them teachers, police officers, health workers, expect the correction of salaries, municipalities, also the SDS often put on the side of municipalities, expect higher averages, cut the budget with 580 million tax breaks. Is that really fair, social and ethical? I don't think so. And so on, if we ask ourselves in terms of development. There are many commitments in the coalition contract, from the construction of 10,000 new apartments for young people to the modernisation of Slovenian railways, to higher health funds. Does it really make sense to cut off these projects, which the country has been waiting for for decades, from 580 million tax breaks? I don't think so. Finally, the SDS justifies its proposal by arguing that VAT is a socially unfair tax that disproportionately affects the poorer. But it is important to ask why VAT was raised in the first place. Today, few remember the dispute in 2006 between two right-wing influences, Andrei Bajuk, then finance ministers, and Janez Šuštersic, who then led the government's Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, better known as Umar. In 2006, Bajuk implemented and planned a number of tax reforms that were mainly burdensome and capital-intensive. In 2006, a reform was carried out whereby income from capital, such as dividends, is no longer covered by income, but are taxed separately. There has been an income class for capital since then, for work 5. In 2007, a reduction in the profit tax was adopted, gradually from 25% to 20%. In 2008, the levy on paid salaries was abolished, replacing the pension surplus which took place due to a reduction in employers’ contributions a decade earlier. Well, Šuštersič, who was himself a later minister in the second Janšev government, warned Bajuka very clearly about these reforms. He said to him or wrote a letter to him: "If the state implements these tax exemptions, it will face a budget hole that can only be patched up in two ways, either by reducing budgetary spending or by increasing VAT." It is said that Janez Šušteršič warned Minister Bajuk in 2006 before the tax restructuring that if he relieves the rich and capital, we will have to raise VAT someday. Bajuk didn't accept it, and what followed, we know. The period of fat cows ended, the crisis that Slovenia expected with a major structural deficit and no reserves, and in the coming years exactly what Janez Šušteršič wrote in 2006. After the crisis, governments, mid- and right-wing governments, have covered the budget gap with social cuts, pensions, science, culture, public sector wages and, finally, higher VAT. The most tragic thing about all of this is that the SDS, the proposaler of today's law, obviously did not learn anything together. Today, Slovenia, as the Government rightly points out in its opinion, is a country with very under-taxed capital and assets in relation to the EU and OECD averages. As a result, we have lower inflows than the average of countries that would like to be like Austria and Germany, and therefore lower pensions, fewer in health, waiting types, shriveling science, subsidised culture and brain drain. The SDS answers, "before the new crisis, let us do the same thing we did before the previous, lower the tax inflows into the budget treasury," and the new lost decade is assured. We will, of course, vote against it in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u13	Thank you for your opinion, Member. Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u14	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In Novi Slovenije, we had a strong response to the increase in value added tax at the time of the increase forecast in 2013. A rate rise of 20 to 22% and a lower rate of 8.5 to 9.5% was seen as a measure contrary to the Christian Democratic Programme. It is therefore quite clear that we support the proposal for a law that restores the level of value added tax to the previous level. Slovenia is one of the countries with over-average value added tax rates. The World Economic Forum report also estimates that in the business environment in Slovenia, in addition to ineffective state bureaucracy, the most difficult factor is the high tax rate. In Slovenia, above average, work and consumption are mainly taxed. That is why we have already proposed in the past in New Slovenia a reduction in the value added tax rate to the German level, a reduction in contributions by applying the development cap and the social allowance and an increase in the general income allowance to EUR 7 000. In line with our proposal to amend the Income Act, employees with an average salary per month would receive a good €80 more than they do now. We hope that the government coalition will only listen to our proposal for higher net wages. It would probably seem strange to many that the Left Government Coalition would not support a reduction in VAT rates, namely, a tax that affects the poorest citizens most because they spend most of their income on the consumption of the products they need to survive. On the other hand, a larger share of income is being saved, which means that this part of their value added tax income is not taxed. From 2016 to 2019, the former government projected an increase of almost €700 million in budgetary expenditure. We hope that the new government will not continue to increase its budget spending on a continuous basis and will leave more money to people through tax measures. The way in which the state fiscal policy is managed shows, above all, that the government is too unaware of the fact that the budget bags are a full economy. The fruits of GDP growth and consequently the enlargement of the state budget under the leadership of the existing government reap only the expenditure side of the budget. Companies that, together with their employees, take care of budgetary enlargement are waiting for at least a little burden to come. Reducing the burden of value added tax would certainly also increase consumption, stimulate economic activity and improve business conditions for economic operators. The high-tax policy shows a great lack of confidence in the ability of citizens to manage their own money, which they themselves deserve. Only a policy that does not trust its citizens requires them to pay too much taxes to manage these funds instead. This is a policy we are rejecting by Christian Democrats. Since reducing tax burdens is an extremely important part of the direction of the New Slovenia economic programme, we support the amendment of the value added tax law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u15	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Franc Kramar will present the position of the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u16	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! At the Alenka Bratusek Party, we will not support these populist changes of the law, as proposed by the SDS Group. We are in favour of maintaining the existing VAT level. Our tax rate is not higher than that in neighbouring countries. If it were, it might reduce consumption in Slovenia, because some consumers prefer to shop across the border, and then we could think about change, but this is not happening. The current SDS proposal does not take this into account, but it does not take into account that taxes are needed for the normal functioning of the country. Moreover, it does not claim that a different VAT rate will automatically mean lower prices. Prices would remain the same at a high level of probability, only tax would be collected, which is detrimental to the most vulnerable groups of our society, which are most dependent on the assistance of the state and the social state. The measure proposed in the SDS is therefore totally inappropriate, according to our assessment. If we wanted to share the money we collect with VAT differently, we could introduce an income relief, as we proposed before the elections at Alenka Bratušek. That would be a fair measure. A fair measure would be to provide higher pensions and faster care for pensioners for this money collected from value added tax and more affordable housing for young people. Otherwise, we do not support the SDS proposal because it is incomplete, it does not have all the content that is required in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. There is no assessment of the financial effects of the bill that we are currently considering, so in Alenka Bratušek we are seriously asking why such a law can even be dealt with. However, the effects of this proposal have already been evaluated by the Ministry of Finance, when the SDS Group has proposed a very similar proposal to what we are considering today in the past. The Ministry of Finance then said that such a measure was not fiscally sustainable and that it constituted at least a 300 million deficit. That's the irony. Just about one month ago, the SDS Group was talking about a budgetaryly unsustainable coalition agreement, and now, understands who is more, it is proposing a fiscally insurmountable measure. While there are no problems in the Alenka Bratušek Group in support of tax improvements, they must be prepared after thorough reflection and we will not support this proposal in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Robert Polnar has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u18	Mr President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! There is no tax policy that could reverse the negative effects of bank recovery costs and the costs of private sector recovery that have been transferred to an already overburdened state budget. The tax rate of value added tax, which could fix what was generously forgiven to Slovenian entrepreneurs and bankers, does not exist. Changing taxes, which will not take into account domestic economic realities, will only increase the budget gap. Any political rush in this area creates an ideal environment for new big mistakes. It would be good to remember in all this enthusiasm that the primary objective of tax policy is to fill the state budget, not to transfer the budget debt too far into the future, and ultimately to prevent the country from going bankrupt. When tax authorities give up a sparrow in time for a pigeon on a roof, this is very risky because the tax pigeon is very rare, if ever, to land on the ground. The bill argues that the loss of part of the budget revenue will be compensated by indirect effects such as increased consumption of consumers, better business results, higher payments of other taxes and contributions, and in particular a higher rate of growth of gross domestic product. With little imagination and with some irony, it may also be possible to demonstrate that the reduction in value added tax rates will be an effective reason to reduce the number of minors pregnant, the number of traffic accidents or the unstoppable incentive to increase the functional literacy of the population. The tax revolution or counter-revolution, as a costly one, began at the end of the 1970s and reached its full effect in the ninth decade of the 20th century. Its doctrinal basis is linked to the so-called supply-side school, the economy of the offer. The doctrine promotes tax reduction and mitigation of their progression. This is based on expectations that economic operators and citizens will be more motivated to work and invest, resulting in increasing revenues and profits, and thus a higher tax base. The lower tax rates applied to the higher tax base will ultimately increase budgetary revenues. According to this logic, the US and British administration in particular reduced tax rates in all areas, not only in the areas of consumer taxes, including in the area of capital taxes, property and income. But the budget deficit started to grow, instead of falling. The predicted effects have never materialized; the reality has roared to a senseless theory, but the policy of low taxes has stood still and has been maintained to this day. All that changed was the argument. The economic virtues of low taxes are now secondary. The urgency of globalisation processes is highlighted. If the state does not increase taxes, then companies may not even move production to countries with a more favourable tax policy. Ladies and gentlemen, when public revenues are not high enough, public spending must fall if we are to achieve a level playing field in the budget. The problem is that reducing public spending is not an easy process and very rarely leads to a balanced budget. For the world has changed very much since the classics of the political economy. The modern state must spend ever more and more in order to preserve the civilisation standards it has set itself, especially in order to meet the new challenges in the area of infrastructure, environmental protection, organised crime, terrorism, etc., all of which, in the circumstances where the birthrate is May, when citizens live longer and the health and pension funds are burdened more than ever. Low taxes are supported by a large number of citizens, especially those who lose such a policy alone, which is a kind of contradiction. Supporting a low-tax policy means knowingly participating in the gradual decommissioning of all the social functions of the State. This is how citizens support the process of creating their own observability and insignificance. In doing so, they threaten the present and the future, their children and their children. Such a policy inevitably leads to an increased distribution and rise in social tensions, a decline in quality of life, an increase in crime and all kinds of extreme and excessiveness. The consequences can be devastating, especially in post-transition countries, where a newly enriched elite rarely feels for the right measure or sense of social responsibility. Slovenia is a sad illustration of such a phenomenon. This contradiction can also be denied because public opinion is designed with skill and systematic propaganda. Interests in low-tax policy are strong enough and have sufficient resources to finance the media and academic institutions that promote this, in an economic sense, completely meaningless doctrine. Are there, therefore, conditions for reducing the value added tax rates? Not objectively. Tax discipline should be increased and budgetary spending should be rationalised according to its structure. However, the overall budget expenditure will be very difficult to reduce. We need to ask ourselves where Slovenia will finance all projected investments in infrastructure, how it will repay loans and how it will reform the pension system. As everywhere in life, the whole issue of our consideration today is the sense of the right measure. The problem with the marriage proposal is that it does not have this measure and that the experience of economic history does not confirm its stated objectives. We will therefore vote in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners against the proposed amendments and amendments to the Value Added Tax Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Zmago Jelinčič noble has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u20	Nice hello to you all! It takes time and time for us to accept this law. The fact is, we had enough, to some extent, smart enough taxation so long ago, but the greedy government was so greedy that it had to raise these VAT. I wonder why Germany has only a 19% VAT tax, why France has 20% of why Austria has 20%. To stay only in these three countries. Because they're smart. Because with low VAT, you're attracting customers from the area where they have higher VAT. If we look at the Croatian border, sometimes our malls were full of Croats, now they're gone. The Austrians went to our side to buy a lot of things, and now they're gone. Now our people are going shopping in Austria. Is it the idea and intention of the current government to totally destroy the Slovenian trading network with perhaps even higher VAT. In fact, I am surprised that the government is not in its own, how I would say that I will not be too insulting, in defending European principles that it itself does not understand that it has not even proposed that VAT be raised yet. 25% or something. That's what you'd expect from our government. It is not aware that lower VAT brings larger purchases. And bigger purchases bring more money. But it is true that those who have ever engaged in a profitable activity can understand this, that they had to sell something, that they had to make money and pay taxes, pay employees, invest money in development, and then put something else in their pocket. No, no, no. The government says that ex cathedral, speaks into mind, and then we listen to strange statements, when high taxes will save us. What about me? With what? It's best to get people everything. To pick up, if anyone has too much, you have to lock him up and pick up what he has, and then you just want to shoot him. This is where our government works. This way. What about the people? But which one of you is talking to people on the road? Go take a look at Kozyanska. Every euro comes in handy, every euro. And they're fighting for it. But you would, what do we care about, what do we care about people, just that the government's basket will be filled with money, and then we'll know how to use it. Nobody talks about the number of public servants, not doctors, not nurses, not cops, not firefighters, getting bigger. The higher number of ministries, long and wide, is spreading through various additional organisations, commissions, I don't know what. It doesn't matter. And where do you get the money? To strike upon a poor people. Pick up what you can get him. And that's why you're against a well-respected coalition, so you're against lowering the VAT because people would have some of it! Not the government, not the government, not the government, not the government-bound scavengers! That's right. The problem in Slovenia is big, but the government doesn't want to see it. The former government did not want to see him, and the former government actually sees only its own continuation in this government. Many ministers have switched from one ministry to another, they have changed their phone numbers, perhaps not, perhaps their notebooks, so that they can continue their journey elsewhere. Not by creating it without correcting the mistakes they have made, but by continuing what they have made. I am increasingly convinced, now especially after the rumors that are circulating, why Mrs Vraničar had to leave to prepare for a hook to come to her place, which will only be nodding and which will give money after a long time and so that we will again be in debt as we once did, and with the motto, if you will, the next government that will come will take care of our debts. I am sure that people are sober, however, the electoral body is sober slowly, very slowly, in Slovenia it is very slow, but it will change, it will change. And then I am sure that certain people will knock on the door and tell some ex who was defending you, "you boy" or "respected lady," what did you think then? Where did you get this villa? You've had nothing before, and now you've got this, where did you get this? Maybe even from that 22% VAT you didn't want to lower. Maybe, I don't know, anything can happen. If it doesn't happen the way it happened to an inspector in Prlecia when the rubies came to one woman, the one with the pitchforks stabbed him in the ass when he carried her TV out. This could start happening. Get ready. This is not going to happen to us. This is going to happen to you. You're a coalition, you're trying to make people feel better, but you need to change your principles, your thinking, and above all your integrity.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Dear Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko, your word will be the last word on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u22	Thank you so much for the word. I'm just going to take you by your word and believe if it's my last one, then we're going to confirm this law today, which, of course, I'm looking forward to. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we proposed a reduction in value added tax rates to pre-crisis levels from 22% to 20% and a reduction from 9.5% to 8.5%. In addition, we have proposed taxation of certain products and services with a strongly reduced tax rate of 5%, especially those products that are essential for people's lives. The Act on the implementation of the 2013 and 2014 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, adopted in May 2013, established higher rates of value added tax. At that time, the general tax rate increased from 20 % to 22 % and decreased from 8.5 % to 9.5%. An increase in value added tax was established in this law as a time-limited measure to be in force until 2015. However, in the value added tax law, the former government of Dr. Mir Cerar proposed that higher levels of value added tax become permanent. The SMC, Desus and SD Coalition has adopted this proposal for a law or the adoption of higher VAT rates as permanent. The legalisation of persistently higher value added tax rates was, at that time, unreasonable, unnecessary and, above all, socially criminal. The value added tax is a non-social tax and the most affected are those who have lower incomes, as they pay the most according to their income. Since 2014, Slovenia has recorded strong, stimulating economic growth. In addition to the increase in economic growth, on the other hand, there was an increase in revenue in the state budget. In 2018, more revenue is expected for 1.2 billion in the state budget than in 2014. The value added tax is collected from the final consumers when they buy individual goods or when they pay a single service, meaning that in fact all the taxes are paid by the final consumers. Many of these consumers are citizens with the lowest income, which unfortunately is the most affected by this tax. It would therefore be fair, it would be social and it would also be ethical for VAT rates to return to a pre-crisis level. The reduction in value added tax rates would not only burden the most socially vulnerable citizens, but would also encourage consumption, which would consequently have a good impact on economic growth, on competitiveness and ultimately on revenues in the state budget. Moreover, Slovenia also has a high burden on consumers with value added tax compared to the European Union countries because it does not have two reduced value added tax rates, such as many other European Union countries. Most of them are like that, 17 of them. Slovenia also does not have a super-reduced value added tax rate, which is below 5%, such as Ireland, Spain, France, Italy and Luxembourg. The main objective of our proposed law is thus to introduce a second lower VAT rate of 5%. However, the proposed law also aims to reduce VAT rates to pre-crisis levels, which would, of course, relieve all citizens, especially those with the lowest income and thus also encourage consumption, as a result of the lower final prices of products, would leave citizens with more money per month. On the basis of the provisions of the 2006 Council Directive, we propose to introduce or apply two reduced value added tax rates in Slovenia, as in many EU countries. The first lower rate is proposed at 8,5 % and the second lower rate at 5%, as well as the lowest rate allowed in this Directive. The law also proposes a new classification of supplies of goods and the provision of services for which lower rates can be applied, namely categories for which 8.5% VAT would be applied and categories for which a 5% value added tax would be applied. We want the basic food products such as bread, cheese, eggs, fruit and vegetables to pay 5% VAT for children's clothing, footwear, school supplies and firefighting equipment. We also propose that a lower value-added tax rate of 5% should also be set for the supply of electricity, natural gas and remote heating. In the Slovenian Democratic Party we support our bill, because we estimate that it is high time that all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have something from higher economic growth, and last but not least that what is promised was only a temporary measure of raising value added tax at the time of the government of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u23	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. As the last one, you have presented the position of the Group of Members, and we are moving on to the general debate of Members and Members on the proposal for a law. Mrs Andreja Zabret has the floor [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Speaker, please. I'm sorry I missed you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State who has rejoined us, colleagues and colleagues! On the basis of the views of the members of the groups, we can conclude that the current government coalition, the government of Marjan Sarca, will not support the proposal made by the SDS Group, which means that the value added tax is reduced to a pre-crisis level and that an additional reduced rate of 5% would be taxed primarily on products that are vitally needed. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we regret the position taken by the current coalition. However, we are convinced that such a step is not right and is not appropriate. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that there are conditions for value added tax to be reduced to a pre-crisis level, because we are convinced that this would not endanger public finances or the stability of the budget. In 2018, the budget revenue will increase by around €1.4 billion compared to 2014, when the value added tax was increased. However, it was raised solely because of one thing – the crisis and the adequacy and balance of the budget. And today, we stress that there is no crisis, that the budget revenues have increased significantly compared to 2014, that the time has come when this tax can again be reduced to a pre-crisis level and thus, of course, enable citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to have higher net available income or to lower prices for products on the market. I would also like to point out that, in addition to the population that would have felt such a price reduction measure directly, this also applies to the public sector as a whole. For the whole public sector, the distinguished Secretary of State, is not entitled to the refund of value added tax, and thus, of course, the municipalities. If you mentioned the effect of reducing these rates for the budget, I ask you, Madam Secretary, whether you could have made a calculation of what a savings would be for the whole public sector, a reduction of value added tax to the pre-crisis level, because there would probably also be an additional impact for the country and a positive inflow for the budget. We have heard many times, mainly by the Social Democrats and the Left, the argument that we are working for major traders in the Slovenian Democratic Party. That's not true. The effect would immediately be known – from the reduction of VAT at net fixed prices, that is, for utilities, for oil derivatives, for gas, for telephone services – prices are falling immediately. It is still unacceptable to me that a thousand litres of heating oil in Celovac is more than 200 euros cheaper than a thousand litres of heating oil in Ljubljana, Škofja Loki, Kranju, Koper, Murski Soboti. And that's because of the excise. And by this measure, which would have been adopted today at the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the price of a litre of oil, a litre of fuel oil would have been reduced overnight. In Levica and the Social Democrats, they're wondering who they'd be giving leave to. I would like to grant leave to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia would be given leave not to traders, as you state. Of course, a reduction in value added tax would have a negative effect in the inflows to the budget, and we agree, of course, if you lower the tax, a lower inflow to the budget. However, once again, when the tax was increased, the revenue from the tax addresses was around €1.4 billion lower. However, it should also be pointed out that this government and the previous government still have a lot of reserves to make sure that the revenue in the budget increases. For example, EUR 1.3 billion in tax debt. This represents about 15% of all inflows received by the Slovenian budget. And this is a significantly higher amount compared to the structure of the deficit on the basis of unrecovered tax debt compared to other European countries. There is a large reserve here, including a challenge for this government. The former government could not take advantage of this and the tax debt had in fact only increased. 1.3 billion, Secretary of State. On the other hand, we have a catastrophic flow of European funds. 3 billion is available. But this government, as well as the previous government, will not take advantage of it. You would only burden citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with tax. It's probably the easiest way. However, in order for you to make any other effort to increase your revenue to the budget, you are, unfortunately, not able to do so. The neighbouring country of the Republic of Croatia has reduced the value added tax rate for 2019 and the country will not collapse. They also reduced the food tax and everything. And this government of yours today, this coalition today rejects the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal to lower the food tax. That's what you're rejecting today. See, value added tax is the most a social tax and the most affected are those with the lowest income. But no, here's a real picture of this coalition and this government. And we have warned several times in the previous term about what the economy has created, what the previous government has actually eaten and drank. I am sure that this policy, implemented by the previous government, the Government of Mir Cerar, will continue under this tactic. This means a policy of borrowing and a policy of additional tax burdens both for the economy and for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that our action is positive, it is going in a positive direction. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, in particular, we advocate that economic growth should also be known in the pockets of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, honourable Member Alenka Bratušek did not object to the proposal to reduce value added tax in the previous term. I am sure that here the matter has now changed in the opposite direction and this coalition is going in this direction, that is to say, the continuation of the policy mainly the burden of the economy and the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Andreja Zabret has the floor to prepare Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. When I listen to the debate, it is really interesting how there are different views about some of the same thing, which is somehow logical if we are in Parliament, but some fellow Members are really experienced and know how to turn this debate into their own good and into their own promotion. A number of issues have already been heard, what a financial impact it would have been when tax rates were adopted or reduced. On the one hand, there is a decline of up to 580 million, but on the other hand we do not have a financial impact as income. There are also concerns that have already been said that traders would definitely not lower sales prices, but would increase their RVC, which means that people with the lowest income would not be burdened, i.e. you cannot force a trader to lower prices. Finally, we can also look at the 2010 experience when for certain services, the sale of books, hairdressing services, smaller repairs of bicycles, reduced the VAT rate from 20 per cent to 8.5 per cent. Prices did not go down, but traders said that this difference would allow them not to raise prices. In fact, I would refer to my colleague Pogačnik, given that the applicant also says that from 2014 to 2018, up to 1.2 billion revenue is expected in the state budget and that we can actually afford to spend. Here it is necessary to explain why the surplus is in 2018. There were 205 million single EU revenues already made by the state budget in 2015. The single high dividends of the Bank, NLB and Telekom, which will no longer be in this range in 2019, are both incomes only after cash flow, not according to the ISA methodology. It is crucial that the surplus in 2018 cannot be spent in 2018 because in 2019 these revenues will no longer be used. The fact is that the state budget has a debt of €29.2 billion and the possible surpluses of this year are spent on repayment or debt reduction. Also, purchases from the sale of capital investments by the State, NLB, Banks will be earmarked for debt repayment in accordance with Article 74 of the Public Finance Act, it is said that it is 90% of the purchase and the financing of the demographic reserve fund, where the remaining 10% of the purchase will be indicated. Such one-off revenues are not intended for current consumption, given that the debt of the state budget is at the level of three-year revenues. Therefore, I will not support the law because we also in the LMŠ party are aware that measures in the tax area need to be taken in a way that strengthens the competitiveness of the business environment on the one hand, affecting sustainable economic growth and increasing Slovenia's global competitiveness. On the other hand, there is an urgent need for a further process of gradual fiscal consolidation, which does not entail partial fiscal policy measures. This is the only way we will be able to relieve citizens, especially those with lower revenues, which should be the aim of the bill's proposer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u27	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. The word is Luke Moon, prepare the mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u28	Thank you for saying that again. First of all, I would like to say that Marko Pogačnik, on behalf of the proposaler, has made some adjustments to his position this time, which is why he asked the secretary from the Ministry essentially by calculation, and therefore, if I understand correctly, he also recognises the Government's calculation that the change they are proposing would cost EUR 580 million. If so, then I am glad that you are so fair because, as I said before, the law makes it very clear that the SDS assumes that there will be no negative impact on the budget, even though the real number is EUR 580 million. Second. We have listened to different discussions on what other countries have VAT rates. Already in the annex to the law given by the proposer, where the table has degrees across Europe, you can see that in Slovenia there are nothing special, of course some countries, smaller, exposed France, Austria, etc., but it is always necessary to look at it in general. I'm really putting my heart at your fingertips to take some time and take a little look at the OECD comparisons. It's not hard. They're very accessible. There you will see, Slovenia chooses 37% of its GDP from taxes, Austria chooses 42, France 45, Austria 10% more, France almost 20% more. So much for this devouring Slovenian country, where we are all taxed too much and where taxes are being used for nothing. That's not true. The reason why pensions are small is because they are not sufficiently collected in the pension box is that health care is also poor because it is underfunded compared to comparable countries, science is whimsical because we are on the tail of Europe after how much public funding we invest in development and research. Young people are leaving. Go watch Slovenian films that were on the FSF this year, because after the team shoots a movie like this, five years won't get a new one. And Rok Bicek, who made a breakthrough in Slovenian film a while ago, is now filming for Croatians, Sara Kern filming for Australians, etc. You're missing people because there's no funding for the things that are important for the development of this country. Third. When we talk about comparisons with prices, I think it's completely illusional to be attracted by taxes to foreign consumption in Slovenia. Slovenia is a transit country, but those who travel across the sea or so will spend as much as they can on accommodation, food, coffee, gasoline, what is more, it is pointless to speculate that any time with taxes on people from neighbouring countries, we will be able to attract them to spend with us and that consumption will increase. These are some of these mantras that have settled well, but they all serve what Ambassador Polnar used to say, to justify a very magical economy, by which lower taxes ultimately mean higher revenues to the budget. To substantiate this fundamental point of yours that if we reduce taxes, there will be more revenue in the budget, it will be necessary to make up everything – there will be more economic growth, more will remain for people, more businesses will invest, foreigners will start shopping and so on and then more will flow into the budget. We've had an experiment like this. For 10 years, different governments have carried out such an experiment. Did he pay off? It's not. I think we've had the worst decade since 1991. There was no more consumption, no more inflows to the budget, and the country has been out of the crisis for years. These are the consequences of such policies, and if we want to move forward, it will be necessary to change the policy on the basis of the relationship between taxes and the country. If you are reading a little more modern economic literature than what you are reading, I would recommend to you Mariana Macukato, who recently received the award for the development of economic thought. She will tell you that technological breakthroughs, such as the Internet or the development of Apple or Tesla, did not happen on their own. The country was a) the one that developed the technologies that these companies now use and put these technologies at their disposal and use, and b) invested in these companies. The LCD screen was developed by the country, GPS navigation developed by the state, computer chips developed by the country, and only in 2009 the US invested 500 million, or refunds, to enable them to develop it. With us, you are still selling the story that Slovenia will be economically successful, only to lower taxes and entrepreneurs will already know what to do with this money. You did it in 2006, 2007 and 2008. And what happened? This money didn't go into investment, he went into speculation. And these speculations went down during the crisis, and a number of companies went down. That's what happened. And now in the West, many point out that in the European Union, including Andrej Šircelj, he once said that the European Union is one of the slowest growing regions in the world, Japan is even slower because it has been hit by a so-called secular stagnation or a developmental trap. If we want to avoid this, one thing will help what they are doing in Japan — putting money into circulation, lowering taxes. It doesn't help. What will help the country to take on the development role, what Macukato tells you. If the state starts to develop technologies more actively, to lead policy developments more actively than it once did, then we can get out of this. We can also emerge from the climate crisis because the market itself will not save it. I've been listening to this for too long. But as it is said, you have somehow remained ideologically in the 1990s or 2000s, the one before the crisis neoliberalism, when the lower taxes and the withdrawal of the country from everything, the path to success. This ended in 2008. We missed one of them, and the other one's gonna have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before continuing with the Members, he has the floor to propose. Mr. Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u30	Mr President, thank you once again for the floor. I must now respond to the debate of my colleague Zabretova and Luke Mesca. Of course, this is about deceiving. See, the fact is, the budget has significantly higher revenue from tax revenue in 2018 than it had in 2014. I propose that the Secretary of State, you will probably believe him more than I do, at least so I expect him to say what is the difference between the planned tax revenues in 2014 and what tax revenues were in the 2014 budget. We'll see, there's, I'd say, a strong billion higher. It doesn't go here. I'd say it's a one-time thing. The fact is, however, that there is a time for value added tax to be reduced to a pre-crisis level. And here there will be significantly more positive effects than negative. There's been a rumor here that 500 million will fall out. There won't be 500 million outages. Just let him say how much he will save the public sector and the municipalities on this basis. On the other hand, we are confident in the Slovenian Democratic Party that consumption will increase. However, spending will increase not only because foreigners will come to us, but because of the higher prices today at the border, there will be many Slovenes who live at the border, full, full, Austrian fiscal and full Austrian public school system. I still don't understand why a thousand litres of heating oil in Celovac is cheaper than in Slovenia or why a litre of oil in Austria is cheaper than in Slovenia. However, the chances of being replaced are, above all, in drawing on European funds and in unrecovered tax debt. But you can only do this: you owe the country and increase taxes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Pogačnik. Replica, Luca Moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u32	Mr Pogačnik, let me just say this: note also what the deficit in 2014 was in the budget and what it is like in 2018, and you will get a large part of the answer to why the country cannot give up these almost 600 million euro inflows. Didn't you just say 14 days ago that a coalition contract like the five he signed was fiscally unsustainable? Now we would have reduced the revenue by more than 1% of GDP, in fact brought us halfway back to those crisis years in view of the deficit in the budget. And you are acting as a fiscally responsible and reasonable and economically favored party. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u33	That's not a replica, that's the proposaler's word again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u34	President, thank you for your word. I guess Levi and I will never come here together. We just have different views. I am convinced that this would be a positive effect both for citizens and for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, including for the economy. I would say that this loss of compensation would be replaced elsewhere, as we have stated, with greater economic competitiveness, with higher consumption, this matter would be replaced. However, the measures envisaged by the Coalition Treaty, but only consumption, are not budget revenues. We are confident that, on the basis of this matter, the revenue in the budget would then be increased to other things. And you only increase budget expenditure with a coalition contract. And I will still say, what created the economy, the government of Mira Cerar ate and drank. And it seems that this policy will continue now.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u35	Thank you. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Get ready, Mr. Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u36	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! I understand this meeting today in particular as an opportunity to have a general discussion of what kind of tax policy we want in this country. I also wish that the new Members would not be so insistent that they go absolutely only on this concrete proposal, but that, when it comes to general debate, they understand a little more and that, in addition to the opposition itself, they may also say what their proposal is, how they picture their tax policy, which would be most effective. It is clear that in tax policies, in tax policy, we are looking for the right measure between people being able to still pay taxes, so that they can still survive, and between what the state needs to do for their operations. We're looking for a real balance here somewhere. That taxes are too high in Slovenia, it is not the opposition that invented them, but that is what the citizens are telling you. This is what citizens feel on their own wallets. Value added tax is one of those taxes, which, if too high, very often and very quickly appear those words, whether accounted for or not. Because, if the tax rate is too high, of course, people are looking for different forms to circumvent these taxes. Therefore, we must always be very sensitive when setting the level of a tax. Those of you today who have guided us to modern economic literature would do well to examine some of the basic economic literature, including the story of the so-called Laffer curves. In the economy, this is a clear thing to say to you: if you increase taxes to one level, of course, the inflows to the state budget can increase; but when you get to some level of tax increases, you can continue to increase them and the revenues to the state budget will be lower. This is not a theory, this has been demonstrated in many ways in practice, even in Slovenia and also in other European countries. The goal of New Slovenia is very simple and clear. We want as many people as possible to pay as much taxes. You heard right. As many people as possible, lower taxes. At the moment, tax policy in Slovenia seems to be set up so that those who pay taxes and those who are honest and pay taxes should be squeezed out to the extreme, as far as possible. And of course, in this way certainly the middle class is disappearing, which does not have a lot of manoeuvre space, so that, like rich people, tax-optimisation or doing other things, they move their assets into tax havens and other more interesting environments. That is why it may be such a tax policy as we have today that those who pay taxes are weighed to the extremes. Speaking of comparisons with the OECD. Sometimes it is necessary to be honest and to put these comparisons in some context. Who is Slovenia competing with? Who do we actually compare ourselves to? And you will find, of course, that countries that are direct to our competitors for some new investments, which are about the same level of development as Slovenia, will soon find that they have lower taxes than we have in Slovenia. Of course, there are some countries that are much better developed, which have already gone through some of the levels in which Slovenia is now, and can also afford higher taxes. And also about the countries in which technology is developing. Mr Mesec spoke about iPhones, and about various other high-tech products, that in all these products, at the beginning of the study, a country that had made research possible and then took over the private sector and developed these products further. But Member of the Moon has forgotten only one thing. Or in what countries did this happen? It's a simple question. Was that in countries with high taxes? Or in countries with low taxes? In the development of technologies, in particular those high-tech technologies that need substantial initial resources, the practice is most likely to be such that some of the first development steps are being taken by the state, most often even by the military industry. And then when these things develop to some degree, the private sector comes in between and develops them into some good things, but that the private sector can do so and is a key business environment. Without a good business environment, the country's assistance at first does not help. And sometimes it would be interesting to ask if I once again point out the concrete example of Left, which are the countries by which they follow because I think there are some high-tech products from these countries. And that from these countries, if anything, then there is a brain drain, precisely because the tax rates are too high and because people cannot fully develop their talents, so they are looking for their opportunities in other countries. Of course, then, on this side we are immediately labeled and marked, if we think out of fashion, that we don't know things, that we're staying on ideas and some theories from the 1990s and things like that. But can anyone very easily explain to me, perhaps the colleagues from the Left will be more competent to tell me these things: where does socialism in the world work? I don't know any countries in the world where socialism would work. Even with us, where they say it's supposed to work, it crashed into dust in 1991. If I may be under-examined and not know the whole story, let me know where socialism works, where the high tax approach works, of course, if they want to carry out and develop certain things. I'll probably get an answer. Look at Scandinavia. And I can answer right away, look at their business environment, and then we can talk and discuss their approach. In short, the point should be for as many people as possible to pay as little taxes as possible to go to the widest possible mass. Because if as many people pay taxes as possible, these taxes can be reduced accordingly. And it still worked in practice. If more people paid for one thing, then taxation could have been lower, if taxation was lower, then people simply had more in their pockets. Because if you take less people with taxes, they have more in their pockets. And of course this money can be spent on such and different services and products. When they buy them, they create a need again, a demand in the economy to produce these things, and this creates new jobs and drives the economy as a whole. This is the only theory that actually works and has already proved to be well-functioning in many ways around the world. President of the National Assembly, at the end of the day, I would only like to warn you one more thing. I think that you, as chairman of this house or as president, should react when the Member of the Moon unjustifiably attacked the Legislative and Legal Service. According to my experience, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly is working qualitatively, impartially and what Member of the Moon has afforded is simply incorrect and would require your intervention. It's really a cheap show if I use very gentle words. In the past, our or the national legislature has produced different opinions, such as those that the opposition liked, those that the coalition liked, and those that we did not like in the position, as well as those that, for example, were the last of them on the status of the Left, which was not liked by the coalition. However, I am convinced that they have always adhered to their principles, that they must write what they think is in line with the legislation, the constitution and all the acts they judge. It does not seem right to me that this is the way to deal with the political needs of one of the professional services of the National Assembly. I welcome this debate today and especially see it in a positive sense that we Members have the opportunity to say, above all, some basics, how we see future tax policy and how we can ensure that this country works normally. And, of course, I would like the discussions to go to conceptual breadth, so that we can primarily talk about how a policy can see that we can make a future tax reform. And if the debate goes this way, this debate today will certainly be useful.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before he gets the replica, allow me to respond. I'm very impressed with your commendation of the professional services. Let us maintain such a position in the future. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u38	Thank you. In principle, I do not have any problems with the Legislative and Legal Service, but this time I had to point out that it was difficult for me to adopt a statement in a law that would reduce the main budget source by almost 20%, and the argument that this matter would have no impact on public finances and the Legislative and Legal Service would make a hook. Well, that's right. If you put that in, I'll tell you we wouldn't even come through that door. Second. I'm going to replicate two things you've turned over to me. You say who Slovenia is competing with and who our direct competitors are for foreign direct investment. I have two answers to that. First, Slovenia is on a common market in the European Union, we are competing with Germany as well as with Romania. But we're not who we are to make all the banks, all the companies, etc. We sell everything and then the country will become dependent on foreign direct investment. And what you're asking, who are our competitors for foreign direct investment, is essentially your policy. You would sell everything so that we would then depend on foreign direct investment, because there will be no foreign direct investment. We say the other way around, we need to maintain this capital and strengthen it, and we need to become the one we are imposing, not to ask our colleagues for no one to bring any dirty industry to Slovenia. That's the difference between you and me. And this answers the second question on which countries we follow. After the developed countries of the European Union. And there, if you go to read our election program, you will also see that virtually all the suggestions written in it are taken from these countries. Of course, you say, we have to compete with Romania, Poland, Hungary, and when you say that, you are proposing tax and political measures that would make us look like these countries. And that's the main difference between us and you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u39	Just let me give you my word and maybe your information. Indeed, at this stage, the Legislative and Legal Service did not look at the content of the law, so that it could not give a legal opinion. Mr Vojko Starović has the floor and Mr Dusan Šisko is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, good-bye! I would like to agree with my colleague Tonin that discussions are useful for us to reflect and exchange views and views that are normally different. There are also great differences in economic science. You usually point out to Hayek, Friedman in NSa, that is, Nobel Prize winners from half a century ago, newer, this year and all these years ago, were awarded Nobel Prizes by economic scientists who were more committed to the Keynesian side, i.e. to consumption and not to an offer that will develop and accelerate economic growth. So we're going to say that there's no special right here to own some economic knowledge and stuff and to teach another. So there are different views that have occurred differently at different times, but in fact, it is that the knowledge and calculations that are on offer have experienced great failures everywhere and economic knowledge of this in the vast majority has stalled. But I'm not saying it doesn't work in some trials, in some cases. When you asked little underestimatingly where socialism works – many point to China, whether it's communism or what it is, where the country's great role is and grows at incredible rates and becomes world rulers. It's not said that some systems work, some systems don't work. Like where culture is and so on, in any way, so you wouldn't agree that it's someone who owns it, that it's so smart for everyone else. That's why I'm saying it's a pleasure to have a little exchange of views. Otherwise, as has already been said, we do not support the Alenka Bratuzek Party primarily because it is partial. The tax area is so serious that it needs to be addressed comprehensively and not through a partial proposal that has many shortcomings. As we have noted, there is no calculation of the effects or says there will be no negative effects. They're missing the other elements, too. In recent times, a number of proposals and laws and decisions have been halted because I believe that such a serious party, including a strong human being and from the very beginning of Slovenia, is very much present, although it has changed its name several times, is proposing these proposals because I would like to do something positive. But I have a feeling that he's putting them primarily to prevent work from hiring us. And I suspect that he's directing attention elsewhere, and maybe he's actually putting in some kind of one-sided stuff that can have a nice echo, appear on TV, say on TV, journalists write, people respond – who wouldn't rather pay a lower tax? Again, the tax system is complex and needs to be fully taken. And I would ask that with all seriousness, the opposition also takes this into account and helps. I therefore welcome this debate, it has shown some aspects and differences, and perhaps this will help us to come to a more appropriate tax system, which will also take into account our most vulnerable groups, so to speak. The country has to work on not having poverty. One can certainly be through the reduction of some value added tax. But there are probably other things that we are committed to at the Alenka Bratušek Party, through the correction of the percentage of pensions, through the increase in the lowest wage and through these measures to help them and also through the reduction of income for these poorest groups, because it is not good for any society and we have all set ourselves up to implement some policy so that poverty does not happen to us on such a wide scale. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u41	Replica mags. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u42	I admit that I very much liked Mr Starović's debate. And I think if we continue this way on the side of the opposition-coalition, then we can also look forward to some good discussions in this mandate, especially a slightly better dialogue and a better political culture. Of course, I am obliged to answer a few things in the replica because I was misunderstood. It is quite clear that in this House we have different views on the economy, on the economic theory. It's also the right thing to do. It is essential, however, that we discuss these things in this house, that we discuss them and that we see where the intersection is, where we can ensure an adequate and better environment for our citizens. My assessment is still that socialism is not working and that what China has is not socialism promoted by the Left when it comes to some democratic socialism. And another thing where we and I are personally misinterpreted and misunderstood many times, is that we are given some label on our foreheads, that we are neoliberals, because we are not Christian Democrats, but this is the kind of swearing that is used in Slovenia when you want to tell us what is wrong with capitalism, you put it in a package of neoliberalism and say, you are neoliberals, it says, you are for everything bad that is in capitalism. That's not true. And also when he's always coming from the left side to sell me everything — where did you hear that? Where did you hear that? The key point is that in Novi Slovenija we want all Slovenian companies to have responsible owners, I underline – that companies will have responsible owners. But the responsible owners can, for the first time, the workers who make the purchase of this company may be foreigners, it can be, if you want, a country. There are many options for responsible owners. And that's why again it's a cheap circus and a cheap show if you always say to us, "You're for selling everything!" We didn't. However, we are in favour of selling companies in a way that gives them responsible owners, but responsible owners have to make sure that the company develops, invests in keeping jobs and, above all, that workers have decent and good wages. That's our direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word has been given to Mr. Dušan Šiško, and he is prepared to be Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u44	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I come from the region of Posavje, from the municipality of Krško. It is in today's issue that I read the shocking news that our region comes first after the poverty of citizens. According to these statistics, about 20% of the people in our country are poor, despite the fact that we have an atomic power plant and a bunch of rich energy companies in the region. I think that a reduced VAT rate would at least cost people their lives so difficult to live, but it would be even better if they introduced a reduced rate for some of the most urgently needed foods. In recent years too, because of the higher tax rate, the purchases of Croats in shops in our region's border areas have been greatly reduced, so I am sure that the reduction in VAT would have a positive impact in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Breznik, and Jani Prednik is to be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u46	Vice President, thank you very much. My part of the debate, which is dedicated to me for a few minutes, will begin, I think, with our common foundation of everything we do in politics. So what is the way to greater prosperity for citizens and citizens in Slovenia, especially those who want to work who want to create and those who are from weak groups who are weak, sick – how to help all those who want to work. This is some fundamental task of all politicians so left and right, but of course the paths to this are different. Today, after discussion by colleagues from Levice, according to Luke Mesec, I would say that today I am a Slovenian leftist or a classic socialdemocrat in German terms, and Luka Mesec represents a neoliberal, an explanation of American achievements. Of course, there is always this problem with Levica, at least for some to draw from this American candy maker or the Western Civilisation Circle, which does not suit them, because, as is being asked today, I would say to this rhetorical colleague Tonin, where socialism works – it has not worked anywhere, works in the aching heads and has never worked and will never work. Even in China it does not work, they have so-called brutal, like ours, casino capitalism, where the party still leads all the levers, but in the back it is the total exploitation of people, children and everything else. But let us not turn our backs on the way back, why do the Slovenian Democratic Party and Nova Slovenija aim for lower taxes, especially on VAT, on which theories run today, i.e. on a social tax, on a tax that affects all the most vulnerable groups, and why do we still want to call ourselves an additional, special reduced rate? Look, colleague Tonin explained something from the economic theory today, they were some for and against. You know, in the economics of metric models, even in my study of economics, especially in specialization for Austrian economic schools, where economists also came to further multidisciplinary studies of law, history and sociology and everything else – which model works? The problem is always that Slovenia must be compared with comparable countries, i.e. similar to large, developed and also with its geostrategic position. Slovenia has a special geostrategic position, it is an extremely transit country and has exceptional opportunities for tourism, transport and everything else. Even as a commercial part, Slovenia could also be extremely taxed, i.e. in the case of transit guests, tourists with large taxes with reduced tax rates. It works, for example, in Luxembourg, which has always had a conflict situation with the European Commission because it has the lowest excise duty, the lowest taxes, which is why there are literally petrol pumps, the sale of cigarettes and everything else at the lowest level in neighbouring countries. This Laffer curve, which my colleague Tonin was talking about, is not that simple. After all, Arthur Laffer was a doctor of economic sciences, an economic advisor to Reagan's government. Reagan then began a so-called doctrine against socialism in the Cold War, called War of the Evil Empire. He said that socialism would break with a new doctrine, and this new doctrine had three points: the first were low oil prices, the second was the production and ban on the sale of microprocessors to all socialist countries, and the third was the discovery of new weapons based on microprocessors and all the latest technologies that this America had put into practice by then. True, America has developed certain high technologies, but it is necessary to know that the country has been able to develop them because it had a competitive school system. They didn't have a state school system there, most of the best colleges, as you know, have private owners, private founders. The best technical college in America has been MIT for the past 15 years, in Europe is ETH Zurich, perhaps the Technical Faculty in Munich, even in Slovenia we can be proud of Maribor's, nearby is peas and so on. So, say, the GPS system, as you know, has evolved for military purposes. That's also why a lot of problems in the past are being thrown out by this GPS system because the priority is always the military. During some wars, some fights, when GPS works and gets saturated, the civilian part always suffers and falls out. I want to say that there is still one point of transition on Laffer's curve, in short, one point of transition – when the tax is so large, so high a tax rate that our proceeds, tax evasion into the budget is small. I think about Slovenia that this happened a long time ago and that we were exaggerating. It's not just about VAT. See, the macro-economy theory is that raising VAT by two, three percentage points, what we did in the crisis, of course, has a short-term impact on the good supply of these taxes, is increasing. But the problem is that people who think every day like homo economicus in the country, but now I'm going back to the transit countries where we have Austria, Italy, Hungary and so on on on one side, they start to decide because it's close to the border, what my colleague thought before me, here started on Zasavje, they start to decide that they're coming abroad. So, why, where did we reach the point of transition that happens after a time period of lifting this? We can look at Stajerce, you can look at Bad Radkersburg, Graz, full of stores of our people who buy products of all different ranges, from clothes, food, shoes, to vegetables and everything else. You can look at gas pumps in Austria, you can look at the same on the other side. So, this point of transition is happening in Slovenia because VAT increases take a long time, then people also decide to buy, those at the social bottom, for substitutes, mostly in food for substitutes of poor quality and everything else, which has a bearing on the poorer health of the population. Then the story begins that our commercial work, because it has a smaller supply of tourists and everything else, has a smaller range of products. People come to buy a suit, say the 102 I need, they don't have it in stock anymore, because they also have smaller stocks. Then this pyramid begins to happen. And it happened in Slovenia. We seized on cigarette excises, on fuels, on everything else, not to talk about the matter that I have already opened several times, on liquid petroleum gas, where we have a cartel agreement in Slovenia, exceptional prices and everything else, see, it happens that people are leaving. This has already happened in socialism several times. I don't know what kind of socialist country people were fleeing from capitalism. Always from these socialist places, under the so-called, people were running out, they went to other countries, they were buying there, and that's what's happening to us now. Look, something like this happens to us in the mid-80s or '70s when our people bought most of the products abroad, even though it wasn't here because the offer was extremely weak. And with this example, it's this border point that happened on Laffer's curve where things turn. Third, the third argument for what needs to be done is, of course, that we need to introduce low tax rates because we need to make reforms in this regard. So either the essence or the way I started my debate, my colleagues and colleagues, the path to the well-being of all people, all Slovenes and Slovenes, that is to say, it is a modest state spending that leftist policy, in 10 years, has driven exactly the opposite, employed, expanded our public sector to the point of disability, established institutions that no man needs, along with, we can say, prepared a whole series of laws that can, say, drill a hole or spread these bureaucratic swamps. And look, the result is here. This country, if it goes at this level, that is, rich countries with extraordinary bureaucracy, full of people in the public sector, with total monopoly in the education and education system and in all other sectors, it will be a country in a few years of extremely old people, where most of the most capable, ambitious people will go away, and there will still be left-wing people here, still fighting: “Down with America, down with capitalism, a little more, and there is prosperity.” Look, that's what we've been through, that's what I've experienced as a child, most of the time I think you do, and that's what Slovenia doesn't deserve anymore. Therefore, to reduce VAT to these levels that we have represented by reducing public spending by bringing people in the public sector today into the economy to transform them. The economy needs 30,000 people right now. At this point, agriculture needs workers to pick apples. And I'll tell you that, people on the stock market, most of the people on the stock market today, they don't go to collect, they're looking for some imaginary hospitals, and so on. This country leads to poverty. The path to poverty has been under pressure for the past 10 years. Let me get this straight. The path to prosperity is the path of flexible, modest state spending and, on the other hand, the development of entrepreneurship, which is characterized by competition in all areas. And where there is the same fight, where there is competition, where people have a choice, it is a country where there is a good business environment where high technologies, high achievements, high-quality services can develop. And look, the train that is now taking, the train of low taxes and the train of the 4th Industrial Revolution, and this is the only solution for Slovenia. We can still miss it, and then there's the script I told you about today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Jani Prednik has the word, and Jani Möderndorfer is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u48	President, thank you. Messengers and Members, nice greetings! In the beginning, let me immediately answer my colleague Jelinčič Trimenite, who said in his position that Germany had low VAT. Let me tell him that it is true that he has lower than Slovenia, but he has a much higher and higher taxation of capital gains, which is a fellow nobleman who is not currently in the Chamber, and I believe that you will pass it on to his colleagues, of course, silent. The applicants of this law claim that, in the case of VAT, it is a social tax which is relatively more burdensome for the weak. We could agree on this in some way, but we all know that the picture is wider in this case, and we need to look at it that way. It is estimated that around €330 million less money would be selected from the reduction of tax rates in the state budget. The introduction of a new further reduced tax rate for certain products and services would result in a further decrease of around EUR 250 million. This means a total of around €600 million less in the budget, which then, of course, is devoted in the next step to common needs and public services for all citizens and citizens. Speakers keep reminding us how the state must reduce public debt in order to be better prepared in the next crisis than we were before the crisis in 2008. And let me say here that the state is in a position to reduce public debt. In 2018, this year, we have a public debt of 70.3%, and for 2019 only around 66% is forecast, which means that we will be very close to this Maastricht criterion, which is 60%. In your proposal, you also have a proposal for 5% VAT on children's clothing, school supplies and firefighting equipment. Here, let me warn you that this proposal of yours is populism and like, of course, we cannot say that we disagree with it. We would all agree with this, but we cannot go beyond the fact that the proposal does not comply with the VAT directive at European level, and I believe that you yourself knew this in this proposal, but, of course, from a populist point of view, you have proposed this. If we want to help people, our citizens and citizens in concrete terms, we need to talk about one dir thing not about reducing VAT, namely the burden of wages. This is a measure that would actually help people, because when paying workers off, it would mean that the worker would receive a higher salary in his transaction account. This would also mean that people would have more money and over this spending would have increased considerably, and people would of course feel safer, which is very important. I believe that it is a little harder for you to talk about this proposal, because you are capital advocates, because in this case capital gains should be taxed more to compensate for the manca caused by the payload. Once again, workers and workers would have more in their transaction accounts by decommissioning their salaries and would receive more net remuneration from their gross wages. Let us remind you here that in the years 2004 and 2008, your current president, Janez Janša, and then the finance minister from New Slovenia, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, at the time of economic, high economic growth, was lowering taxes by populism, which was then a drop of about a billion, billion euros. As a result of these populism measures at the time, the country was not prepared for a later economic crisis following 2008. At the time of the outbreak of this crisis, we did not have any room for manoeuvre, which increased and encouraged the debt that was then, of course, necessary. We must not repeat this right now, this mistake must not be repeated again. I hope that from that mistake in 2004-2008 and later events we have learned something. I am sorry that there is not a colleague of Grims here who is so eager to point out Hungary and Viktor Orban as an example of some good practice of a country which should be an example. I believe that here you have silently silenced the Hungarian VAT of 27%, which is why I have said it here. But I don't think even Comrade Grimes would say that if he was sitting in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Chairman. Comrade Jani, don't be sorry that he's not here because we'd have a riot and a riot, so I think it's okay if he sometimes walks a little. It is, however, a fact that the amendment we are talking about today is one of those typical moves that we will in fact be getting ahead of this call by the end of the term of office. Everyone knows, but it has to be repeated, because the historical memory escapes and disappears no more for a year or two, but sometimes for six, seven months. For all that was left in the previous term is said, by 21 June, in fact, everything has been deleted; nothing counts anymore. Everything counts, they count every time, as we have Christ's count, they start when the mandate begins. Why am I saying this? Why does such an introduction need to be made? For one simple reason. Because now, after so many years, one basic thesis is about to be sold that, for God's sake, let us stress what we have promised the Slovenes and the Slovenes that this is a temporary measure. And I've been listening to this mantra over and over and over again. You know, when you tell a lie once, twice, three times, eventually it becomes the truth. And I'm actually disappointed today because there's nothing much to say about the fact that this was never really a temporary measure, but we're all trying to explain why it's such a shame that this tax is going to go down. That's the wrong theory. Now let's do it in a row. It counted, of course, 2013; Janša’s government fell for known reasons, because six months ago the prince of darkness feared how we would actually bankrupt and go all the way down the hill, and accelerated the agony that we had only been down the ladder. And finally, when he didn't actually want to give up when he saw his government falling apart and leaving behind, we actually had to take responsibility at the time, and Alenka Bratusek decided to lead the government out of the crisis with certain measures. And one of the measures, not temporary measures, was then very clear and was also an integral part of the Stability Pact package of measures to regulate the revenue side itself, because they simply no longer covered the share that the State actually needed for its normal existence. Given that there was still a problem at the door, it was still unknown, and six months later, by increasing debt and so on and so forth. The dilemma was clear, there was talk of a crisis tax, a crisis tax that would have meant then 30 euros per family, pardon, not a family, I apologize, to a person who is, of course, obliged to pay a tax, or a structural change in VAT is introduced and, of course, a VAT raise, which is a long-term measure, not a temporary measure. What, though, is the basis and reason for today’s interpretation that this was a temporary measure? Yes, because he was admitted to ZIPRS, not in marriage. That was a key dilemma. As a result of the need for a rapid measure, it was adopted in the essence of the rebalancing, this measure was therefore taken within the ZIPRS. What happened in 2015? Cess, Cerar's government had not yet passed the law. No, she's just transferred the matter to the law, just like VAT has to be settled. That's what we're talking about and nothing else. No provisional action. Sometimes we would make some projections, what would it look like if the government of John Janša did not fall? I'd do the exact same thing. And if, according to some theory of universal fantasy to this day, the president of the government, of course, is impossible, unreal, God forbid that such a thing would have happened, because it would probably not have been because they were the state of Orban, he would never have thought of such an investment in changes in the law, because he would have cut off his own legs and not just himself, but the whole state. So it seems very clear to me that we should stop fooling around. Of course, I understand this political nagging every time we actually copy-paste the law that we have already dealt with and the National Assembly has already spoken on this issue, all the necessary stakeholders have expressed their opinions and, in contrast, – Do you know what the paradox is? That they do not make any calculations at all, and on the other hand we have to make calculations as to why their fact does not apply, by which argument they argue. Nonsense! If it were in my opinion and if you had any power and, of course, words about what you wouldn't even allow, because we have these games slowly enough in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word has Željko Cigler, to prepare Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u52	Your Honor, hello! Today, several times has been said, last mentioned by the speakers, Mr Tonin, that in Slovenia we are highly taxed, that we are a country with high tax burdens. It is clear from the European Statistical Office that this is not true. Slovenia is, as far as taxes are concerned, the European Commission's data are below the average of the European Community. Earlier, Mr Jani Prednik mentioned VAT, and let's leave it alone, all the surrounding countries have significantly higher taxes. But it is true that there is a problem with us, and that is also what the Government has pointed out in its position, the problem is the economic structure of taxes. With us, we pay high contributions on wages, and we also have high taxes on consumption, which is what we are talking about here. On average, as regards the European average and how it is in the developed north in European countries, capitalist, to which they like to refer, we have taxed low capital and property. And this is a problem in Slovenia, which needs to be resolved, it is necessary to tax passive revenues and tax burden on wage contributions. On the one hand, we get inside fiscal revenues for higher burdens of capital and wealth, and on the other hand, as the Prednik has already said before, we can go into burdens especially on contributions to wages. Thus the same gross wage is paid in this way by Slovenian workers or workers who are low-paid, mostly under-average or poor employees, can be increased. And that's what people who elected us want, whether it's the voters of SDS, NSI, Left or the other parties in here. This is what people expect from us and from this national assembly. This also suggests, we have already said several times, and this must be reiterated that this truth is only sitting in our heads, the OECD. This is suggested by many economists in Slovenia, today various economists were listed, from Sočan, Kovac, Mencinger, Damjan Babič, Ana Murnova etc. After all, this policy is enshrined in the coalition contract, where we will get not only what the budget implementation programme will be, why the budget will be allocated, but where we will also get resources so that this budget programme can be implemented. It's in this coalition contract, and that's also the government's position, which I don't know why I wouldn't support here. On the other hand, we have proposals from the SDS and the New Slovenia, which first convenes an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly in which it promotes against the increase in low-tax capital and those rich in our country. Incomes are also significantly higher, ordinary poor workers than tax capital. At the same time, the SDS again convenes an extraordinary meeting to reduce VAT. Sorry, this country has no financial resources for its functioning. How can you then put things in order to shorten the waiting lines, keep public health, accessible health care for people. Where do we get the money to invest in knowledge? Because knowledge alone is the one that enriches additional value in companies in this country of Slovenia. Where do we get the money for culture? What about long-term care? Where are we gonna get that money? Hello?Oh, my God! That's a little bit to think about, it's a little bit to be summed up. That's because these two aren't going together. The first extraordinary meeting, where the call was launched and the second, this is not going together. You don't have to be smart enough to figure that out. I hope the voters are listening. In fact, I suggest that the SDS think a little bit about what they are doing, because once they realize that their policy is against one social state in Slovenia, against the increase in wages, against the increase in pensions and against one welfare of the country, citizens in Slovenia, I suggest they stop a little bit. The tax burden on work and the burden of capital is in line with EU standards, as proposed to us from the various points I mentioned earlier, and it is stated in the Coalition Treaty that the only answer and the right solution to these issues is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor, Mr Marko Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u54	Mr President, thank you for the floor. By lowering the value added tax, we mainly relieve those with the lowest income. Here I really cannot agree with your statement that we are burdening this capital. We relieve those with the lowest income. However, if any tax is unfair, it is VAT, for whether or not someone has a job or has such income or has different incomes, the same tax is paid for all. Here I think we need to take a step forward and in the Slovenian Democratic Party, I repeat, we are confident that the time has come for this tax to be reduced to a pre-crisis level. Once again, I call on the Secretary of State to tell us what the tax revenues were like in 2014 under the 2018 plan and also to say what would be the effect for public institutions which are not entitled to return value added tax as an economic company. Here there is also a considerable share of the country – and of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u55	Robert Pavšič has the word to prepare for Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u56	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'll try to continue where my friend Brickler broke up. It is not a key issue of welfare in our country that is the amount of taxes, it is crucial whether people can pay them or not. And when we look at that we have two thirds of people who receive wages that are lower than average, and almost 10% of those who belong to the lowest wage classes, there's an original sin here, and that's what we need to work on. According to data collected and also accessible on the Internet, private individuals pay worse than the legal and private sectors than the public sector. This can be interpreted in different ways, but in my opinion this is because the public sector is much more regulated and unfortunately it is much more fair now. 30,000 people that we need right now in Slovenia, a new workforce – I am not surprised because I doubt for such money that someone wants to work, but we have to work so that we can survive and also so that we can buy and finance all the services offered by the country. Although the crisis is over, the consequences of the crisis are not over. They're felt by pensioners, they're felt by the public sector, they're felt by health care, we can all feel them. And even if the crisis is actually over in terms of trends, we cannot expect such a partial measure as a reduction in VAT – which is not 2%, but would reduce VAT by 10%, at least at a higher rate, to mix a little more mathematics – actually have consequences for the well-being and for the better position of people. When we look at the higher VAT rate, prices did not change linearly by 10%, they did not increase as much as the rate went up, i.e. from 20 to 22 percentage points, but everyone took on a small burden of their own across the chain – both producers, distributors, traders and ultimately consumers. And if we take the opposite step today, the result will be the same, everything will remain the same, except the price difference will increase and again cause what is actually happening – capital will be raised somewhere and people will actually have none of it. A comprehensive restructuring of tax, social, health, school – all of this needs to be seen as a whole and only then can we look people in the eye and ensure that we are actually working for them. It's hard to be a politician on this side today, because we're not going to confirm a very nice proposal, which, apart from the possible consequence, would have a price for a little bit lower, but if we were looking at a small-number economy, it wouldn't know anything about people, but it would be huge in the budget. Therefore, I cannot support this proposal in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u58	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Here I have to react – are you deceiving or not understanding? See, all prices to be formed, net prices to be constructed, a reduction in value added tax automatically means the next day a reduction in prices. Do not nod; oil is cheap at the same time, utilities are valued at the same time, gas is cheap at the same time, telephone services are valued at the same time. But the other thing is probably with traders, but I'm pretty sure there's competition going on here, and I'd say this is where these prices are going to go down. If you're saying nothing's gonna happen, then why don't you support it? It will, of course, be known in the budget. And you can't find another solution here. 1.3 billion tax debt is an open, European asset – poor absorption. And in here, consumption would increase and the competitiveness of businesses, and at prices, by reducing value added tax and at a given rate as at the pre-crisis level, this would mean a reduction in the general rate to 20, a reduction to 8.5 and an additional reduction to 5%, much would be known. The neighbouring Croatia also introduces a reduced value added tax rate with 2019.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u59	Reploco has Mr. Robert Pavlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. I didn't try to fool you, and what you're saying is deceiving you. You were talking about regulated prices. In fact, there will be an immediate visible effect here, but how many of these regulated prices are in the consumption structure of one consumer? I was talking about prices not going linearly down, but not that it won't have any effect. So please don't take my word for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Proposer Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, chairman. Read again your magnetogram what you said. I'm not deceiving you. You said the prices wouldn't change. But not just prices, those that are regulated, I am sure that telecommunications are not regulated, and they will decrease, the same price of gas and these matters. Don't fool around.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u64	Dear Mr. Vice President! I truly say that what I am listening to from the coalition is what I expected, but citizens and citizens certainly have not voted for what we are listening to today in the National Assembly. It's sad, it's really embarrassing from this entire recycled government of Mira Cerar, plus Levi, plus LMŠ and SAB, that they're trying to convince us here and the electorates and voters that the law we're proposing isn't right, it's not going in the right direction and that it can't be implemented. First of all, I would like to make it very clear that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, when we went to the elections, we promised that we would return VAT to the pre-crisis level, from 22% to 20%, from 9.5% to 8.5%, and we are also proposing a further reduction, which is a rate of 5%. We have promised this before the elections, and we are also making this happen whether we are in the coalition or we are in the opposition. The challenge is that if you promise people something before the elections, then, of course, even when you are elected to the National Assembly, no matter what side you sit on, you try to make those promises come true. I will now briefly state at least 5 arguments why we have proposed this law and why it must be with everyone sitting here in Parliament if he votes against what I will now stress and what is written in this law, not only something wrong, but also works against the interests of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Look what we wrote down. Reduction to 5%, to 5% VAT. First: baby clothes and shoes. Those parents who have 2 average wages, 2 compulsory children, mean every cent, every cent is extremely large. And you're against lowering the VAT on children's clothes and shoes. You're against it. It's written in the law. Second: a reduction of VAT to 5% for school supplies. You, when you are against this law, are against helping people; those of whom I speak, who are on the brink of poverty. Take a look, Šentilj, Poem, Kungota, and don't talk, Slovenian Gorges and so on. If you've ever been there, look at the wages people live on and on. You're against lowering the price of school supplies. That's amazing! How can you sit in the Slovenian Parliament?Oh, my God! Unbelievable. That's unacceptable. Ladies and gentlemen, I really don't understand any more – do you really only work for the privileged, for the privileges, and you absolutely don't care about those people who are on the brink of poverty, and who each cent means a great deal to each euro? Thirdly, you object to a reduction in the VAT rate to 5% for the purchase of firefighting equipment. You've got to be crazy. You've got to be crazy! How will you tell Slovenian firefighters and firefighters that you are against it? You ask yourself what all the fire companies in Slovenia are fighting with, how do they raise money, how do they go through charity events and raise money to buy equipment? And you, this coalition here today opposes it! Don't be shy! I'm sorry, I hate to say it, but that goes beyond all the limits of good taste. You are against VAT on firefighting equipment being reduced to 5%. You're against it! This must be heard by Slovenian citizens and citizens, Slovenian firefighters and firefighters. I'm a volunteer firefighter myself, and I know what that means, and I know how to fight for firefighters to provide appropriate equipment so they can function normally. And then the fourth time: you object to a reduction in VAT to 5% for the payment of electricity, which touches every pensioner who has 300, 400, 200 Euros of pension, which touches every person who has a minimum wage, also touches every one who has social assistance and so on. Although social assistance is significantly too high. It's essentially too high because you're encouraging the week. It's a disaster. You're taking the country to total ruin. Fifth: you are against reducing VAT to natural gas and to remote heating. So, five things I've figured out that are crucial for people to live normally. So they can survive from month to month. And we're going to meet him with this law because we promised it at the time of the election campaign. And this coalition, recycled SMC together with helpers, helpers Levica, LMŠ and SAB, today, you are opposed to these solutions that I have listed here. How can you afford to sit in the Slovenian Parliament with a salary of almost 3,000 euros? You don't give a damn about these people, just a little care. But I don't care much, and I think that, if possible, these people, and the Slovenian Democratic Party, as far as possible, are being helped to complete the beginning and the end of the month. And you, ladies and gentlemen sitting in this coalition, are against what I have counted today, and I will count again. It is right that the Slovenian people know who he has in power. For the first time, you stole the elections, and for the second time, you object to reducing VAT to 5% for purchase of children's clothing and footwear, school supplies, fire equipment, electricity, natural gas and remote heating. This is an integral part of this law. And on the other hand, you're saying that this would be too much of an intervention in the budget, but the places that are happening in state companies in the Ljubljana Bank, that I'm not saying that I'm not going to start listing, places, corruption happening in the health system – what is this? Second track and so on. Today there are some who have received no idea how much, seven or almost eight thousand euro net wages here in Parliament, and here they advocate that they must be against such a law as the Slovenian Democratic Party has proposed. How is that possible? For God's sake, see what we allow ourselves in this national council If this does not go across every border and if the Slovenian people do not find that action must be taken as soon as possible or immediately and that they are going crazy and are killing the Slovenian states, then they can really – I like to say so many times, but to some people it goes on their nerves – only God helps us. [[…]] Of course, I will support this bill because this law is intended for people. It is intended for my people there from the Slovenian Mountains, which is intended for all those who barely break through from month to month. And if those who sit in these parties understood this and did not work for privileges, they would support this law without any problem and stop spending where we are going with trucks to the oasis and so on. We have an extensive state administration, public administration – you know. You know where the money goes, you know exactly where too much money goes. This country, this economy, cannot sustain it. And you know that we should lower those taxes if we want to talk about what was said earlier — that we lack 30,000 people. Why? If they were to lower my economic burden, if they were to lower my taxes, entrepreneurs and craftsmen would hire. And that would be it. And at the same time – what would happen? There'd be a net increase in wages. This is important. That's important because the worker knows what he gets in his pocket. As long as the country is so expensive until the country is insatiable and understands the logic that it is necessary in the economy to help those who keep this country, so that they can employ workers to have more wages, so that workers can spend more money and then the matter will spin normally in the right way. [[…]] But, dear coalition, for you, it's, I must say, I don't know, a thing you'll never understand or science fiction. Really sad and distasteful. I am truly very sad because I am working hard to bring all the political options together, to do everything we can to get together and work for the people. Not for us, not for anyone who sits in Parliament, but for people from all parties. Whether the SD is either an LMŠ or an SMC, that pensioner or a pensioner who has 300 or 400 euros in pension, or that worker who works for a minimum wage of 600, 700 euros – it doesn't matter which customer he is in, he has the same problem, and it's still important for those who to do what I have twice counted. And then they would certainly have a little bit more in their pocket, and with a little more money they could afford, of course, a lot of kids could also buy a hat more or some gloves or some book. We, when we do what we do today, this coalition is working against it. On the other hand, you claim to be socially sensitive — that is amazing, it is truly confused with a healthy farmer’s cleverness. Please, let's not do this anymore. Don't do this again. You have our support, we have proposed a law that is written on people's skin. Come on, please, step together, and let's step together and support this and people will be happy and what we're talking about here may not even be the most important thing. The most important thing is that we help people to understand that we are gathered here to help people. And that is what the people who have voted for us, for any one of us, expect. That would be the right approach. And I ask you to support this law, because it is for people, not for privileged people, not for thieves, not for corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Edward Paulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Chairman. I suggest you draw Mr Pojbič's attention to the choice of words. For the diagnosis of insanity, there are specialists who have been studying for many years, and I assume that Mr Pojbič is not one of these trained specialists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u67	There's no procedural proposal. The word should have Gregor Perič, whom we see not to be, so I give the floor to Mrs Lidija Ivanuš and prepare Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u68	Well, hello, all of you! I firmly believe that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act needs to be supported, as the proposal is good and encourages consumption in the Republic of Slovenia, which has a beneficial impact on economic growth and competitiveness, and indirectly on revenue in the state budget. The proposal removes a temporary anti-crisis measure by which the then government justified the stabilisation of public finances. The measure is supposed to last for two years, and the government of Mira Cerar has legalized it as permanent. With this, the executive branch of power is going against itself. The proposed changes eliminate the incomprehensible, unnecessary and, above all, the social injustice of the current situation in society, because, above all, the regressive nature affects those who are most vulnerable to social threats. The change reduces tax rates from the current general rate of 22 per cent to 20 per cent and from the current reduced rates of 9.5 per cent to 8.5 per cent. The main objective of the proposed law is to introduce a second lower VAT rate of 5 per cent for purchases, as we have heard many times here today, children's clothing, footwear, school supplies, fire equipment, electricity, ground and remote heating, all that a person needs to live. The Government’s argument that the indirect effects of lower tax rates on consumer incentives are not measured is simply not true, as such indirect effects are a generally known fact for which you do not need an analysis. Tax rates are not being abolished but return to the level before a temporary anti-crisis measure is taken. Following the review of VAT rates in neighbouring countries, it is important to ensure that Italy has the same VAT rate and that Hungary and Croatia have a higher general VAT rate than is currently in force in the Republic of Slovenia, which means that by reducing the overall rate to 20 per cent the difference between the general tax rates between countries would increase, which would mean a reduction in the retail price of products. This would attract the consumers of neighbouring countries to shop in our country and thus fill the budget. The adopted amendment will provide a moderate and consequently fairer tax system in the Republic of Slovenia and we will support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u69	Micah Kordish has the word and Edward Paulic is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, chairman. In this debate, I would like to address just two points quickly. The first point is this. The applicants argue that there will be widespread prosperity if we reduce the value added tax. What they forget to say is that it only holds in half. This reduction in value added tax at this point in time would, from a budgetary point of view, constitute a severe hole of EUR 580 million. For this money, our health is poor, our education is poor, our infrastructure and so on. In short, all the goods, public goods, all the accessible goods, for which the right half of this House is also declared. Moreover, at this point we are in the middle of a conjuncture, but we are also living in a society of capitalism and the next crisis is always around the corner in capitalism. What happens when the Slovenian budget has less than EUR 580 million than it could have had and the crisis strikes? Yes, the budget deficit is increasing, the money is lower. And how does the political class, especially its right wing, usually react to such a crisis? Let us further reduce taxes, in particular for, of course, capitalists, so that gentlemen can invest, cutting public service good, as they have done with the infamous Public Finance Balance Act, and in this way further and further plunder health, education, research, development, infrastructure and so on. And, of course, it is expediting to privatise, if the European Commission so requires. Reducing taxes in such an ad hoc way without justification and without other budgetary resources is not a path to prosperity for all, but a path to poverty for all, although it may be hidden and moved for some year, two sides in the future, during the next crisis. The second point I'd like to address is developmental. In Slovenia we do have an unfairly large share of regressive taxes. In this statement, the applicant is correct and right, but as has already been said, if we are to lower the value added tax without compromising public good systems, other budgetary resources should be found. And what we propose in Levica is what the SDS proposed a few months ago, even in the previous mandate, when it came with the same proposal, is: okay, we are in favour of reducing VAT, but these 580 million euros must be collected with fairer taxation to the rich and to capital, and of course to the ambassadors, among whom the Roman Catholic Church is leading. In this way, we kill more flies in one wave, we provide more purchasing power to the working class, we provide greater inflows to the state treasury, through this strengthening of the public good system, also raising domestic consumption and strengthening a more stable economy, independent of exports, which, by the way, is not built on high technology, but is built on high labour intensity. In short, we ensure domestic consumption and provide a favourable business environment, as the political class likes to say, but the difference is that this favourable business environment does not take place at the expense of destroying the nature and breaking the workers' backs of low wages and so on, but is done through an appropriate and appropriate, fairer tax policy, where capital and the rich, of course, contribute more and the working class contributes less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word has Edward Paulic, to prepare Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Colleagues and colleagues! In the coalition agreement, there are a number of commitments on the subject of social policy, such as raising minimum wages, raising the retirement rate, decommissioning wages and also raising the minimum pension. There is also a commitment to fiscal sustainability and respect for fiscal rules. The new government adopted the amendment of the Social Security Benefits Act immediately after the end of its term of office and fixed the amount of monetary social assistance at EUR 392. This measure will at least partially ease the plight of the most vulnerable groups of the Republic of Slovenia. The SDS proposal has a negative financial impact of 580 million, has an uncertain financial impact due to increased consumption and the introduction of a new lower value added tax rate would also entail an additional administrative burden for economic operators. We also need to take into account the situation in the region and beyond, we all know Italy's difficulties in adopting the budget, we know the trade war on the US-China route, as well as the possible cooling of the economic partners of the Republic of Slovenia. According to the European Commission, Slovenia is under an average burden in the field of taxes. While the European Commission reminds us of structural nonconsistentness, this will have to be addressed in a short time. In short, Slovenia needs comprehensive tax restructuring taking into account the macroeconomic relations in the world and compliance with the fiscal rule. On the basis of the reasons given, I cannot support the proposal of the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Blaž Pavlin has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u74	Your Honor! The proposed law, proposed by the SDS, would give Slovenia two reduced rates of tax, as well as a new reduced rate of tax of 5% to increase purchasing power for the weakest. To some extent, I understand the coalition's representatives that you are opposed to lowering the rates to a pre-crisis level, but I cannot understand why you are opposed to introducing a new reduced VAT rate of 5% to increase the purchasing power of the weakest. We have always advocated low taxes in New Slovenia, so I will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, get Jože Lenart ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear fellows! Today we have a marriage on the table that's actually a little short, you might say, like. But if I focus on decommissioning VAT, which would then affect the weakest, I wonder if that's true. Will the weak ones buy more? Let's go nice and slow. On the one hand, we have purchasing power, although the government estimates that the full implementation of this law will reduce the budget revenue by €580 million – are we aware of what kind of funds these are? Today, it has already been said that all pensioners could receive thousands of euros in an annual allowance, all the students we have could receive 600 euros in scholarships. I think it's so high that we can really ask ourselves where it's going. Thus, EUR 330 million would be lost at the expense of reducing tax rates from 9.5 to 8.5, from 22 to 20 and an additional 250 million due to the introduction of a new, additional reduced tax rate for food, medicines, books, newspapers, gas, electricity, remote heating. Yes, I would, in principle, agree with that, sir in front of me, saying why we oppose it. I must say that, in principle, I would not object to this, but we must be aware that the VAT Directive simply does not allow this additional. However, it is also reasonable to refer, from this point of view, to the Government, the question of why we should not try to be the ones in the European Union who would carry the flag and try to submit this proposal in order to be 5% VAT on children's clothing, school supplies and firefighting equipment. Why not once Slovenia be the one who then introduces into the directive, I will say, somehow better for the most vulnerable groups of people? With this funding deficit, which I have been talking about, €580 million, there will be poverty in both the health and the social treasury. What are we gonna do about it? Of course, each individual will have a few more resources in his pocket, but assuming that these services and materials will be reduced. Now I'm going to tell you, I can certainly tell you that none of those who offer these services will reduce their resources. You know why? This is because when prices rose or when VAT rose from 20 to 22, they did not raise prices themselves. I talked to individuals, and they assured me. I have repeatedly said in my previous mandate: yes, economic growth and of this, individuals must also have something. I absolutely agree with this; I say so today, individuals must also benefit from economic growth. But at the end of the day, we also have a fiscal rule on the other side. We are talking about the need to maintain fiscal rule or fiscal sustainability — is this proposal you are proposing in line with the fiscal rule? We had quite a few like suggestions, let's say yesterday's point was quite interesting, how do we need to increase, I don't know, our defence sustainability, technical obstacles to increase, then also human resources – yes, what will then, if we reduce costs, strengthen the military, the police, provide additional resources? There's no help here anymore. I think there is a real need to look at what we can do in this regard. We are certainly in economic growth, but we must also be aware that, at the time of economic growth, revenue needs to be invested, we must be careful that what happened to us in 2004-2008 does not happen. Mr Krivec has given me a lot of sneezing, but you know that at the time it was a conjunctura, we had the resources, it was a drastic reduction in all possible taxes. And where did we come from? At the time of the next governments it came to this, I'll say, the unfortunate Zuif, the wages went down, people live day in and day out. I think we really need a comprehensive tax restructuring, not just a trimming of individual matters or individual VAT, and then, of course, we can come absolutely together. Certainly, once again, we politicians must not afford to lose the country now, at the time of economic growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u77	Thank you very much. He's a magi-proposer. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u78	Dear President! This is where I have to react. You always refer to the Social Democrats as Zuyf. Zujf was adopted in 2013. You've had a term of office for five years. If we were sure that Zuif was so negative, we'd change him. You haven't changed a single thing from Zujf in five years of your term. Don't fool around. Why did you not go to eliminate Zujf if you think that such a drastic measure was to the detriment of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia? Public finances did not allow this. Why was Zuyf ever introduced? Due to a catastrophic government led by SD and Borut Pahor from 2008 to 2011. That was the consequences. Croatia reduces VAT and also reduces intermediate rates. Yes, if you want to, if you have the right government. If the Slovenian Democratic Party were to be in power, I am sure that the VAT reduction would be implemented today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Jože Lenart has the word, and Boštjan Koražija is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues! I'll be brief because there's been a lot of talk today. The government and coalition parliamentary groups and Members today presented the actual revenue outturn calculations on the proposal of the proposal for a reduction in tax rates. I didn't see anyone making a direct objection to these calculations. They were even commended, as far as we heard. Reducing VAT rates would not have the expected effects over lower consumer prices on the socially weak. Coalition measures and targets for the socially weak are prepared and will be implemented gradually or gradually. These measures are carefully selected and targeted. I am talking about that the proposal by the proposer is not in line with the coalition contract measure, where this is, I will say, an approach to comprehensive tax reform. Let me also mention that higher taxes mean higher aid to the socially weak in the European Union countries, and this is the path that I think is right. There is one fact, however, that I want and advocate consistent tax collection and transparent consumption of taxes collected. I want such incentives for an economy where they will promote development towards a higher added value. This has also been shown in recent growth in Slovenia. The added value is a clear criterion that gives the possibility of a wealthier society, and this is the biggest flaw where we are lagging behind other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The word has been given by Boštjan Koražija, to prepare Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. I believe that when it comes to the proposal to reduce VAT, we are again going at the wrong end and at the wrong end. VAT is one of the linear taxes and 22% is 22% for those with low and high incomes, i.e. those who spend little and those who spend a lot. Of course, the net amount of tax, for example, within the product for 10 euros and within the product for thousands of euros is incomparably higher, so the net amount of tax would again be better for those with high revenues. Then there is the problem that you have raised by the proponents, as well as the government – that we do not have leverage to direct the sellers or somehow direct them in this direction so that the tax reduction can be passed on to the final price of the product. The country would have a smaller yield, and the end user, especially the one the applicant points out, the children, the socially weak, would have been no better. I'm sorry. I also have a strange feeling that Slovenia is still similar to the driver who missed the export on the highway and is now turning and driving in the wrong direction. We don't need any model, neither American nor Russian, we need a Slovenian model, which will be based on a fundamental element of justice. But there are constant problems with us only when we need to raise already extremely low wages, and interestingly, they are never the problem of the wage manager. In Levika, in the Programme of Charity for All, our Programme, we have proposed to close the relationship between the lowest and highest wages within each company, which, in my view, would, together with the precise determination of the conditions for wage supplements, solve the problem of the lowest wages more effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word is "Alenka Jeraj." Let's get the mags ready. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! Of course, I support the law we have tabled, but I would like to say that no one has said that the general well-being after we have adopted this, but we have said realistically that the matter will stimulate consumption, have a beneficial impact on the economy, which we are defending all the time, as well as competitiveness. That's what we were talking about when the tax was introduced. In your views, the representatives of the parties said that this is why we had problems reducing taxes in the period 2004-2008, but if you look at data from that time, then more taxes were collected, even a balanced budget we had a surplus in the budget, but problems started when left governments made wrong decisions. In 2009, when the Borut Pahor government took place, or at the end of 2008, you immediately adopted a budget rebalancing in which you increased expenditure by 20%. That was the problem, not that we collected less taxes. As employment increased at the time, 35,000 new jobs were created. 35,000 people additionally paid into the pension and health bills. Not to say that 30,000 more work permits have been issued. And don't hold what some of you said. Companies worked more and more taxes were collected, despite the fact that we reduced taxes. Then some people say here that this is not the right way to lower VAT, but it is the right way to relieve work. What government has so far done something to relieve work? During the period 2004-2008, the government of Janšev gradually abolished the tax on paid salaries, from 1. 1. 2009 was no longer this tax. And then the government of Borut Pahor boasted in Europe that they had abolished the tax on wages paid, even though one government had done it before them, and therefore the results were the same as they were. The ones you say we're gonna unload our salaries, the SD representative talked about it, the SMC representative -- you've been on the government for four years, and why haven't we seen the payload? No action to relieve wages. Now you've rewritten this into the coalition contract, but I'm sorry, I find it very hard to believe. For four years you had time, a colleague from SMC, ask your President Mir Cerar why he did not do so if you think this is such an important and good measure that you served him here so that it would be necessary to do so, but not to reduce the VAT. Great, we're waiting for the first marriage to bring this. Then a colleague from SD said that we did not say how much Hungarian VAT tax there is. It's in our work. So we haven't kept our mouths shut, only you haven't read what we've given you to deal with. Similarly, a colleague from SD, Muršičev. We have written why we are proposing reduced rates, and we also know that this can be done because it can be discussed with the European Union and based on Article 102 of the Directive you can also agree on lower rates. Many countries have done so. In the past, we have talked many times about lower book taxes and the like, but again we have failed governments when they have talked about these matters, and these things have not been enforced. However, we could probably enforce it, given that the Slovenians are few and that the book market is small and so on. But of course someone didn't know how to talk, like you don't know each other today or, I don't know, you don't want to talk; I think it's more likely that you don't know each other. Why do our people always have trouble collecting taxes and taxes? Because then this money is being spent very irrationally — corruption in health care, overpaid second track, overpaid all living investments in that country, overpaid medical equipment, and so on. Normally, people who practically tear themselves away from their mouths to pay taxes, and then this is how we mess around. That's the problem. [[…]] Not only is it a problem to collect as much as possible, but it is also a problem of how to distribute this money; it is a matter of fair sharing or punishing those who have misused it or who have done some things wrong. Even this is possible, of course, once again as usual criticising the government 2004-2008, everything was wrong at the time, but as I said, look at the data, the budget was balanced, even the surplus was, the public debt was 7 billion at the time. In just four years, the government of Borut Pahor, actually three, because they were early elections, we doubled it to 15 billion. Stop blaming the government of Janez Janša, at the time – the data is very clear about what happened and what happened. Even when you accepted the budget rebalancing and increased spending, we told you that this would not be right. We've proposed two packages of measures, you've rejected them all. So don't make excuses that someone else did something wrong. And then at the time of the second government we accepted Zujf, as has already been said, robbed and catastrophic, but at the annual level we saved 250 million and, of course, what is better than just prolonging it. We also said at that time that it was a extreme measure, that it was a temporary measure, for two years, and then the colleague of Bratuškov extended it and then Mira Cerar. At the same time, you've all been talking about how terrible this action is, and of course you've been bragging about it again because we were saving something on this account. But we did take people away, and then we promised them that when the times were better, they would get better. That is why we are also proposing to amend this law, and that is the least we can do. We believe and look at the data, tax reform from 2004 to 2008 has been adopted with the Social Democrats. You must have forgotten one of them or you don't even know it because you weren't here at the time. At that time, the partnership for development worked, and we also aligned 70% of the legislation with you, who were then the opposition party, because we believe and know that not all the wisdom in our party, but you certainly have experts and you know what things we were doing together and it was successful and it worked. Since then, opposition has never been taken into consideration when we were in opposition and asked her any questions. All of our proposals have been rejected without explanation, as we can see, and you have not read it again if you are here telling us one thing that is written in the material, but you do not know about them and say that they are not. In short, the law is before us. Perhaps this, Levi has in his programme which the Lord has shown – a blessing for all, not just for the electorate, or how the title is already written: "Our tax system is not neither effective nor fair. The funds are collected by less than 37% of GDP, the EU average is 40, which is not enough for a real social state." And then you write, "With high excise duties and VAT it burdens citizens." In view of what Levice has said today, I would suggest that you correct the programme and write that the VAT rate is solid, that it is at a sufficient level and that it does not burden citizens. Because this does not hold what you wrote here, or it does not agree with what you said here today. I'll support the marriage. I think that we would at least deserve not to say we will not support this, because there will be too little resources in the budget to think about where we can lower our expenditure, because you know that money is crawling on every side. I've already mentioned a bunch of obsessive or bad investments where we're running out of money. And if we don't overpay the other track and some similar projects, don't worry about this mancha in the budget not knowing each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, first Jani Prednik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u86	Thank you. It is true, colleague Jeraj, on page 5 in a material where Table 1: The VAT rate in EU countries is Hungary. More communication would have been if Hungary had been released from this table, so that was almost an emergency. I just wanted to say the double criteria that you have in the SDS, when you like it, you use Hungary as an example, and when you don't like it, just shut up the information it has. Again, Hungary has a much higher VAT than Slovenia in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish also has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, chairman. Lie, history, statistics, trimodality, manipulation, Mrs. Jeraj has reached out to two manipulations of these. First, she went to comment on the Left Program, but she didn't say it to the end. By the way, [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u89	You don't have time anymore. Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u90	We have already told hundreds of times what is public debt and what is the debt of citizens [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u91	Sorry, there's no replica to the replica. I'm sorry. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić, get ready for Bevk only.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, everyone! Today is the first time I've spoken three replicas. So we have cases like this. I see this law or the bill as one new attempt at populism, I understand it, I do not condemn it, but it is indeed one clear cover or a motion by the proposer to be a good publicist, because there are virtually no other levers. And if you look at what this measure brings to one case for pizza, which, for example, costs 8 euros, this would cost 7.93 euros to reduce the tax. Do any of us even think that the innkeepers would change these prices? I wouldn't. That would only go in their pocket. For one glass of beer at 2.80, this would be 2.75 euros for the 2% reduction of the alcohol tax. And again, I don't think anyone would change that ticket for these five cents. The measures further cited by the proposer to significantly reduce the supply of gas, electricity and thermal energy are, of course, all of us, all of us, paying, sympathetic, but to come together, cumulatively with all of this, to 580 million tax less. And of course, we are all for this to work out, but unfortunately — where do we get these 580 million from? This is what we need to ask the proposer, because there are also other proposals coming from your side, such as an increase in payments for NATO or 100% of private education funding, and I would also like to remind you of the costs of some referendums that have not been required. So where do we get it if we don't have any more than we've been given? It is therefore irresponsible demands on the part of the opposition, which are of course clear, but I would also like to remind you that Slovenia is on the European average below this average, so that we do not exceed any middle. I only understand this as one attempt to disrupt financial stability. Because it's an opposition and an attitude and a mission, and it's understandable, but I don't like this jump on the emotions of the most vulnerable anymore, because you're operating on something to treat people like we don't want any good in this society. I think that there is one simple recipe, when you design the government yourself, you can also design VAT, and now, until it's not because I think if it happens, if it comes up, you'll probably pick it up. [[…]] And then we'll hear a new story and new explanations. That's why I don't support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The drafter of mags has the floor. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u94	The fact is that Members of the Coalition are likely to have pre-prepared speeches written in advance, because a number of clarifications have been given on our part, but Members are repeating the same thing through. The merchants will turn the price into their profits – we have repeatedly said here, those prices that are netly identifiable would automatically decrease and this is mainly about those goods that are used daily, from oil derivatives, gas, utilities, telephone services. Go, I'd say, for that reduction. We believe that reducing value added tax would increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, while increasing consumption. This would also increase the additional inflow of value added tax into the budget itself. On the other hand, public companies are not the ones reimbursed for value added tax. This means that budget savings would also be on this side. We can't just watch these expenses. Here again I call on the Secretary of State to serve in the National Assembly with at least two information I have requested. This means: tax inflows to the 2014 budget, as they were, and what tax inflows are foreseen in the 2018 budget and what would be the effect of reducing value added tax following the proposal proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party for Public Enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the text to prepare Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In the previous mandate of the National Assembly, the amendment of the Value Added Tax Law was often on the agenda, which is understandable, of course, since the increased rates were introduced in 2013, when this was justified as a measure against the severe economic and financial crisis. The proposal for a new VAT law today justifies this with the end of the crisis, although we must say that the infamous Zujf is still entangled with his tail. The fact is that some of the measures that fill public cash and balance public finances are very difficult to give up. As we have announced in the position of the Group of Social Democrats, we will not support this bill. The government is assessing what we have heard on several occasions today that the full implementation of the law would reduce the revenue of the state budget by €580 million. In view of the huge reduction in revenue from this largest tax source, because we raise €3.8 billion annually, we believe that we could not replace this deficit. However, in some areas value added tax could in fact be reduced. Here I am referring mainly to the area of Slovenian culture, which was extremely disadvantaged during the crisis. Today, at European level, there is a debate on equalising the tax treatment of electronic and printed books and newspapers, which is intended to allow some members of the European Union to use very low, including zero VAT rates for e-books and online newspapers. The current European VAT Directive requires Member States to apply a general rate of not less than 15% and one or two lower rates, which should not be less than 5%. Currently, electronic publications are taxed at a general level, while printed books or publications can be taxed at a reduced VAT rate but not less than 5%. Thus, in Slovenia, electronic publications, including electronic books, are taxed at a rate of 22% tax, while 9.5% tax is applied to printed books or publications. In the framework of the accession treaties, certain European Union countries have negotiated special exemptions and certain printed publications could also be subject to a zero rate of taxation. Unfortunately, Slovenia failed or this was not among the priorities in the pre-accession negotiations. Today, at the Ministry of Culture, they are seeking to establish the possibility of granting zero VAT rates on a book as a general measure, which, I say, would "contribute to linguistic and cultural diversity, support creativity and improve the accessibility of the book to the reader". This guidance also included a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in 2011 and 2012. Currently, at European level, there is talk of a compromise proposal that was prepared during the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in order to allow members to apply lower levels of value added tax to all publications, printed and electronic, which so far only applied to printed publications. In Slovenia, both rates could be reduced – for e-publications from 22% and for printed publications from 9.5% to a total of 5%. Therefore, I ask the representatives of the Government or the Ministry of Finance what the estimated financial outage would be if VAT were fully exempt from electronic and printed publications, or what would be the drawdown of the tax to 5%, so that the current activities of the Ministry of Finance in the institutions of the European Union would take place as soon as possible, and of course whether, as a country, we are able to take a larger initiative within the European Union to create changes and not just wait in the waiting room for its decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Aleksander Reberšek has the word to prepare Jean Mahnič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Today, we have a lot of people living among us who are facing what position they're going to pay earlier, who are literally ripping off their mouths, and they're going to think about what they're going to need and spend it for every euro. In New Slovenia we therefore support lower taxes that will enable the socially weak to live a better and decent life. Almost everyone in this room yells at one voice: raise wages in one way or another, take care of those with the smallest income. All of us are full of mouths, but all they count is actions. And today we have an opportunity to do that. I expect everyone in this country to act responsibly and for this amount of reduced VAT they will also lower prices for the benefit of citizens. Let us support this law, no matter who proposed it. This law will be felt by our citizens when they take hold of their wallet. And let me ask myself, in this place, what kind of government is it that doesn't fight for its citizens to be left with what they deserve? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Jan Mahnic has the word, to prepare Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Everyone is supposed to follow the political agenda of their clients, or at least there are problems identified in each political programme and, of course, solutions offered in particular, and there are certainly programmes over the political parties' programmes. And it is certainly a program that I personally try to follow in politics and it is in some way, we can say, over political programmes, this book, this is the Constitution for Freedom, written by the Nobel Prizewinner Friedrich August von Hayek, an excellent book for those who have not yet read it. As an introduction to this, too, is Fatal Ingenuity, the book of the same author, where it is an excellent introduction: Was socialism perhaps a mistake? It is also the third issue of the author, who is in love with me, and this is the Path to Slavery, a book based on which former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher has somehow developed his political beliefs and his worldview. This is certainly a programme for all those who advocate the freedom of an individual who advocates economic freedom as a prerequisite for all further freedoms, including political freedom, when talking about political systems. Not so far from the early parliamentary elections, and as I walked through the field, I got votes, a lot of individuals and individuals said, "Yes, we hear that we have high economic growth to raise more money into the budget, but tell me what we have out of it." You may have some of this policy, where in the previous mandate, especially in the public sector, the budget has risen, the wages have increased, and the pensioners have shown me cuts since 2014 and since 2018. And if you look at economic growth, if you look at the expenditure side of the budget, if you look at how much some people's salaries went up in the public sector, then you see what we said several times in the previous mandate – that the pensioners actually got more on average than two ice creams a month. The proposal we are proposing in the Slovenian Democratic Party – indeed, we are not proposing it for the first time and we are not proposing an additional reduced rate for the first time, as someone mentioned earlier, we have already proposed – is somehow the result of what people are saying. As I have already mentioned, we have economic growth, which is unknown in our wallets. And to be able to get more into the budget by reducing taxes and by allowing, despite the short-term deficit on the revenue side of the budget, the money that citizens and citizens bring back in, because they spend more, because of their remaining taxes, to receive in the long term, to cover that short-term deficit, we have proved when in 2007 after the tax cuts, after which, otherwise, the revenue side of the budget in the budget was the first time in history a budget surplus. And now it is time to lower the VAT rate and also introduce an additional reduced rate of 5%. Look, we're going to look at Facebook, Twitter profiles of Members, there's virtually no MP who's not photographed with any firefighters, but there's a number of election bases, 140, 145 thousand, but we like to work on words and do a little bit on actions. Okay, the operatives are 42 grand, I'm talking about the membership of the entire Firehouse Union of Slovenia. Here we propose that the purchase of fire-fighting equipment be subject to an additional reduced VAT rate of 5% instead of the current higher and paid percentages. Surely this is also an investment in our common security, the security of firefighters and firefighters and the security of those responsible for protecting our assets and, of course, our lives and health. In our pre-election time, we had the slogan: “Less taxes, more for you!” This isn't the only law we're going to propose. It is probably no surprise that we have proposed it, and the other laws that we will propose, I believe they will not be a surprise. But if you look at the Slovenian Democratic Party programme, then you can see what laws you can expect, what proposals you can expect not only here in the fiscal area, but also in other areas. Because what we have provided to citizens and citizens in the pre-election period, what we have given pledges, not just promises, we will try to make it happen. However, if the parliamentary majority minority, depending on the moment, considers that solutions are not appropriate, we expect them to come with their own – not with the kind indicated now when you say: "We will have a real estate tax. It will not be higher than NUSZ.” But as it turns out right now, people are going to pay two to three times as much. When I saw what kind of government is coming, I said, "Well, maybe something will happen if you keep Mr. Šefic at the Ministry of the Interior and Mrs. Matejo Vraničar Erman at the Ministry of Finance." She has a hard time reading, and the lady who advocated a flat budget that advocated the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, and we can see that she flew away quite quickly. Because the things that are enshrined in the coalition contract and the things that are now required by the unions – I am sure it will be difficult to come together and I really want to know where will stop where that manna of 750 million euros, which is still a gap between employers and employees, in this case between the government and between the public sector unions on the other hand, will stop. Indeed, a reduction in VAT could also be used as one of the negotiating venues, where it could be said that something could be saved in this way. If this law is adopted, something is done for all citizens and citizens. However, if we are talking about a pension raise on the other hand, a raise in public sector staff, it is a partial solution and what can soon come about with the domino effect, and certainly never will everyone be satisfied. That's why I'm going to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word has Tomaž Lisec, to prepare Matthew the Widow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u102	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Perhaps, first of all, the two Members who are not the first members of the National Assembly are still unaware of the task and the function of the Member. First answer to Mr Branislav from the SMC party, who said: “As long as we are in power, we will adopt such laws when you are in power, but do what you want.”I hope that in a interfaith speech this does not mean that we would prefer to drive the opposition out of the National Assembly, because we are in fact some sort of need. Whatever someone suggests, it is automatically rejected and rejected in the manner that this law is being rejected today. All Members of the SMC, except perhaps Mr Desus, both in their views and in the debates themselves as the parrots, repeat those two sides of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and that is only sacred. Do not let anyone in the opposition give a different number, a different opinion. For according to their opinion, which is not the opinion of the Government, is not their opinion and is an incorrect opinion. A poor start to the mandate when Members read the government's opinion and respect nothing but to take account. On the other hand, the answer to Mr Bevk, who says that this law is a mistake, is a populism, and on the other hand he is lobbying to reduce VAT on another item. In short, what the opposition proposes is unacceptable, i.e. a reduction of, let's say, the tax – a little bit more about this – VAT in children's clothing, in firefighting equipment is unacceptable, but his kindergarten – but here I respect Mr Bevk's opinion, because I know that he has already warned in those years when he was a Member of the past and is at least consistent in this emphasis on his content – but look, respected colleagues and colleagues, if everyone is only going to process his kindergarten and they will be kindergartens of all the other irrelevant and non-star or populist proposals, then we will not come anywhere. The answer to Mr Bevk, once again, regarding the infamous ZUJF. You are a Member of the legislative branch of the Authority whenever you have the opportunity to propose an amendment to the ZUJF. We believe that even in the SDS Group we will be among the first to sign the support if you remove any of that ZUJF. If you can make the right investment, financially evaluate, believe me, in the SDS we will do what we have also promised at the ZUJF that most of these short-term measures will be for one or two years. You have been in power by the Social Democrats or part of the government since 2014. How many times have you proposed the novel ZUJF? How many times? And why don't you suggest it again? You have scissors and linen. So if you even know why you're Members, you could have done it or you'd still have time to write the law today, and there's a line there, a paragraph, or some article in the ZUJF, and it's settled. Now, as far as this law is concerned. I have been in the National Assembly for quite some time. When I walk among people, not just in pre-election time, which makes many of the new Members, I get two indications: too much red tape in the country and too much taxes. And then I have problems when I tell these people on the ground, look, we're not all the same. I was the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, which I fought against bureaucracy, but Mr Dejan Židan was the Minister of Agriculture, who produced new regulations and new regulations daily. The SDS was never for higher taxes for higher excise duties. Here we have socialists in the National Assembly who have this reputation to fill the budget with high taxes, but then, people thank you for paying taxes, and we socialists will say how we will redistribute these taxes. Dearly beloved, I think that in 2018 in a market economy or a market-social economy, if you want, I think that this is not the right direction and that it is not the right policy for people to pay and for them the state will decide without their consent. That's not working. In short, to this day you can see who is in this national assembly a liberal and who is a socialist. Socialists are for high taxes, but we're liberals for low taxes. What is the problem of high taxes, which you thus encourage and support? It's a gray economy. Go into your village, in your congregation to the craftsmen, and actually ask them: France, John, Lois, everyone, you tax everywhere. What are they gonna say? There's no way, because otherwise I don't survive because taxes are too high. If they were lower taxes, they'd normally pay everything and be taken out the same. This is also stated in the introduction to this law that if the tax is reduced, people are more willing to buy. It's not just that they're ugly capitalists who won't do anything and they'll be the same price. I am sure that when Mr Mesec enjoyed a five-star hotel, if he were below VAT, he would have saved some euros for both overnight stays and expensive alcoholic beverages. Next case. There's a lot of people driving a new car. Check out your latest car purchase. If you gave a lower VAT rate – how much would you know? Do you hope to claim that the price would be the same as you paid for it? I'll give you my case. I am not the one who builds the house by himself and the craftsmen ask me, "Mr. Lisec, I apologize, for we know you are the messenger, but – can you do without an account?" I took the house on the so-called key, fixed price plus VAT, final price, that's it, deadline, contract signing, and there's no annex or gray economy. Many young people now make decisions, take credit, and go to the house for a key because they don't want to build for three years, but they want to be in their house within six months. Well, look, the average price of an assembly house is, say, 150 thousand euros, and look at what the VAT would be 8.5% or 9.5%. Are you sure you'd pay the same price? In order for this craftsman, this company to say, ah is a little lower than VAT, but we will already give a higher price. No! No! You'd know each other. You'd know each other here. Every time we go to the store, we pay VAT. Every time. When people say yes, but the taxes may be there, and indeed, well, because the country has to live, I say, sir, ma'am, every time you go to the store, you give 22% and 9.5% of the tax to the state. Isn't that enough? Then let's leave it all to the side. In short, yes, high taxes are part of the problem, not part of the solution, but apparently socialists in this country will never understand it, and that is why stories are happening to us, as is happening to us in the field of energy, in the field of fuel, in the area of, if you want, alcoholic beverages. The last time in the SDS Group were producers of spirit drinks and three problems were listed. One of these was the tax burden and between the lines the fear of what will this government remind in the field of taxes that our Slovenian guests will buy alcoholic beverages — where? Out of the country! Since it's paying them more now, let alone what you're proposing in the coalition contract. Instead of someone else in Slovenia buying either alcoholic beverages or buying gasoline or diesel at our place, it is not that what is happening is happening when Slovenians in the border band 20, 30 kilometers by Austria go to a gas station in Austria, they are refueling, buying cigarettes, and probably buying alcohol for a woman and for children a little bit. Here I go to the part called the new tax rate, the lower tax rate which the European Union does not oppose, because the first is that we can have two lower VAT rates. I must say, we have thought very carefully in the SDS Group about what to give in this 5% VAT. Indeed, as former colleague Pojbič said, which of you has a problem, that 5% of VAT on children's clothing, child's shoes, school supplies, fire equipment, electricity. I hope most of you are parents, and most of us can afford a little more because of our salary. Now imagine someone who has three children, both minimum wages or maybe some 10 or 50 euros more, how the hell would they know this lower VAT at the annual level. How damn proud they would be to pay less and it wouldn't be what the socialists say, because if they were less than 5% of VAT, they would still use these ugly capitalists and traders and they would be the same prices. They wouldn't be. It's just some family that socialists keep saying over and over and over again. As said earlier by colleague Jan Mahnic – firefighting equipment. I think that every time a natural disaster affects us in the National Assembly, we also have a talk about how the firefighters are the greatest emperors and without them would be much worse. Here's when to help – no! Apparently, firefighters are also part of an ugly capitalist lobby that would not have any of this lower VAT. And the supply of electricity; what we once had on the Infrastructure Committee with Mr Trčko is an interesting debate when he spoke about how expensive electricity is. That's not true! I just suggested to Mr. Duck that he turn the bill to the other side. The price of electricity has never been as low as it is now. But the problem is that at this price of electricity, it hangs — who? State! Ministry of Infrastructure One Tax, Ministry of the Environment Second Tax, Ministry of Finance One Margin; in short, from that low price comes one large bullet, where only a third of this bullet is the price of electricity, everything else can be named under the term – the country took away from you. You also have lower VAT problems here. In short, as has been said before, if we understand your socialist thinking: 22% and 9.5% of VAT must remain, but I really don't see that, given that we put this law in a second procedure today in the first reading, and believe that we would have done a lot, even if we had finally agreed to a compromise, which I don't think would be rotten if we said that we would take what the European Union offers us – two lower rates of VAT and give a 5% VAT rate for children's clothing and footwear, school supplies, firepower and electricity supplies, natural gas and so on. And maybe there's another need. Perhaps we could go against Mr Bevk here, so that at least 5% of the VAT will come to those wishes; but no. The thinking of socialism will continue today: people pay high taxes and we socialists will manage them. Wrong thinking in 2018, in my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The next one has a replica of Mr. Just Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u104	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Of course, I refer the replica to Mr Lisco. Indeed, most of the infamous ZUJF has already recovered. All I've said is that he still wraps his tail here and there, most persistently at the salaries of public servants. It is true, however, that at its outset, the Constitutional Court had repealed certain provisions, such as, for example, the reduction of pensions for participants in the national liberation struggle. With regard to the lowering of value added tax, which I spoke of for electronic and printed media, I did not lobby, but I merely pointed out the debate that is taking place within the institutions of the European Union and committed myself to speeding up this debate to conclude and amend the directive, so that in Slovenia they could then reduce the value added tax for electronic and printed media from 22% and 9.5% to a single tax rate of 5%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u105	Thank you. The next one to discuss is Matthew the Widow. But get ready for Mr Jani Ivanuša.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. Today, much has already been said and that we will not repeat ourselves too much, I will not repeat that the decision of Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek in 2013 was to patch up the budget hole, to take a measure to raise the value added tax rather than the crisis tax. I cannot help but comment on my colleague, Alenka Jeraj, who challenged me so that the Modern Centre Party could relieve its salaries in the previous term. Let me point out that the Modern Centre Party acted as a good host and initially reduced the public deficit and public debt and prepared excellent conditions for further work and, as you yourself have already said, the payload will turn out in this mandate. I personally believe that there is no specific data, calculations, proposals and arguments on how to offset the deficit under this heading in the budget or what the final user would gain by doing so. We only assume that the reduction in VAT to the pre-crisis level and the further reduction in the rate to 5 per cent will increase consumption and consequently productivity, but this is not a sufficient argument for me. There is only a fact: the calculation by the Ministry of Finance of the annual budget of EUR 330 million of annual income, except for the next year of EUR 300 million, due to a one-month delay. Taking into account the proposed additional lower rate of taxation of 5 per cent for certain services and products, the total budget deficit would be around €580 million per year. We must also take into account the fact that the indirect effects of the VAT reduction show up with greater delays. They only show up when consumers actually see and feel the price decrease of the final products. However, as we have seen many times today, retail prices are likely to remain unchanged and the difference in reduced VAT will translate into profits for entrepreneurs. Which of the proposers of the amendment can ensure that a kilogram of bread and milk will really be cheap for the value of reduced VAT? That's what I'm interested in, like most Slovenes. However, I believe that by reducing taxes, regulated prices would be reduced. The question is: How long will it take? These companies, which have regulated prices, also want to achieve better results. In addition, I would like to stress that the introduction of an additional lower VAT rate for individual foods would be taken only for bread, bread flour, cheese, eggs, fruit, vegetables - as provided for in the proposal for a law - this would also mean a derogation from the established value added tax system in Slovenia, according to which all food, including non-alcoholic beverages, is taxed with a uniform lower tax rate. In the event of a tax change, however, no one says that VAT changes would result in an increase in the administrative burden on economic operators, suppliers and, in fact, all entrepreneurs operating in one way or another. I believe that measures in the tax area need to be taken by strengthening the competitiveness of the business environment, which affects sustainable economic growth and increasing global competitiveness in Slovenia. On the other hand, there is an urgent need for a further process of gradual fiscal consolidation. Therefore, I would like to point out once again to the proposer, who is so much impacting on the breast of people with the lowest personal income that they will be able to buy significantly more if the value added tax is reduced, that this means, in reality, that the price of bread will be reduced by a circus of 3 or 4 cents. Do you ever wonder how citizens would actually view this, perhaps reducing their bread by 3 to 4 cents? And that we don't get things wrong; I wish we could all buy more. As I have already said today, a much wiser solution is to look for a reduction in wage burdens, as this would win everyone. Citizens would receive a higher net salary, the economy would become more competitive and the country would gain more inflows into the state treasury and thereby raise the gross domestic product. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša is next and Mr Robert Polnar should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u108	Nice greetings for me, too. Dear Vice President, Your Honor! It's been said a lot today about numbers. I think that what was proposed by the proposer is quite enough. Of course, time will show what is right and what is wrong. Today we have a proposal for a law amending the Value Added Tax Act. The main objective is a 5 % change, a general tax rate of 22 to 20 and, of course, 9,5 to 8,5 %. Of course, we all know that this was a temporary measure from a time of crisis. As we know, in November 2015 this temporary measure was also transformed into a permanent measure. Our President, Mr Jelinčič, spoke today about tax rates in other countries, such as Germany; he stressed in particular: in France 20, in Spain 20 and so on. Of course, it has already been corrected by Mr Jani Prednik, but around the corporate tax. Of course, Germany records EUR 36.6 billion in surplus in the budget for 2017, but I believe that this tax is also a net surplus. I must also warn him because, although a colleague has already warned him that he wants to release Hungary on purpose, I believe that everything in the material is legible and obviously you have not read to see or comment that Hungary is occupied and I do not know why you are all relying on this Hungary. [[…]] But it's true. I'm talking about Germany. There are 2 million people in Germany and 80 million in Germany. There's only one difference. Ms Jazbec from the Ministry of Finance [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Secretary of State, I'm sorry. Yeah, okay. He's from the Ministry, isn't he? She simply told the government that they were against it because it was still a consolidation of public finances. However, it does not say that the public sector has increased by more than 11,000 new jobs, covered by the Cerara government at that time. These are huge numbers that no one even mentions. The government is talking about the decline of 580 or estimated EUR 580 million: 330 and then 250 at two tax rates. However, it says that it is impossible to measure this new law, which would foresee another form of duty proposed today. Someone from the coalition said that there was a need to wait for a new, better regulation of European VAT policy. Italy made an excellent statement last week on how it feels about its budget, that it will not change it, and that it is right. This will not fix anything, and I also think that this is one indication of what will happen to Europe in the future. It'll fall apart before it's easy, because it's simply folded and messy. As a member of the Committee on Finance, I would understand that before today's meeting we would have had at least this proposal, this amendment of the law, but this has not even happened. I'm afraid Minister Bertonzel isn't among us either. It is a great honor to Mr Metod Dragonji, the Secretary of State, who has taken the time to at least listen to us. I have a feeling that there is simply no serious matter on the part of the ruling coalition. At the hearing with Minister Bertoncl, we mentioned the legalization of cannabis. One additional source of funding for the country would be automatic. I also proposed the legalisation and taxation of prostitution in Slovenia, but there was more ridicule than anything else, although some data suggest that 30 million euros per year would flow to the state treasury, so that Slovenians would not have to go to Austria or anywhere else. We're talking about fuel. Today, gasoline is cheaper than diesel — it is nowhere in Europe. As far as excise duties are concerned, look, these are amazing, too. Years ago we had normal gas tourism and we went through everything – we sold fuel, we sold alcohol, we also sold cigarettes at the final stage, money is money, because it doesn't say where. Today it is not, today we have no chance in Slovenia, unless it is found that it has to tank and otherwise goes to Croatia. In Austria there are 20 cents cheaper diesel per litre, that's amazing. And what do we get from our gas tourism? Nothing, just garbage and waste in Slovenia, that's all we get. They're just throwing it nice in these parks – and we're cleaning it up. That's all we got. Mr. from SAB, from the Alenka Bratušek Party – the previous speaker said that Slovenia has no VAT rates anymore. Apparently, he also did not read what it says, where the levels are — everything on the fifth page is very visible. The previous speaker in the SAB also spoke — a little more tonin warned — about socialism. I think it's been a long time in China, socialism has been a long time. The Communist regime is there, so it was only more of an attack on Mr Tonin, nothing about VAT. Mr Luka Mesec also spoke as the leader of the parliamentary group that they were against raising VAT at the time to 22, today he says he is in favour. That's amazing, it's a double-faced case! He also said that only traders in Slovenia would benefit from this effect, which of course is not true. It is our people, citizens and citizens, our inhabitants of Slovenia, and they will have something about it, as well as merchants, but it is for all our inhabitants. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer spoke of the prince of darkness. I'm new here. I don't know who this dark prince is. That really surprises me a little, even though I'm guessing who that is. But it is fortunate that Mr Janša has failed with the composition of the government if it had happened otherwise, Mr Möderndorfer would not have sat here today and he can be pleased that Mr Janša has not formed a government. So his debate was just a load-up, and in the final stage only a more attack on the opposition, more on the SDS side of the party. [[…]] I'm also talking about the Ormož Sugar Factory. Politics in Ormož took away the only factory that was viable — sugar beet production and processing. My Ormozans live badly, have no work, even those who walk must go to Bautelle all over the world to bring money to survive. Agriculture is in a subjugation. Well, I forgot to say - at the sugar factory we even got a penalty of 9,3 million, until today no one has answered anything, so we still lost the money that was really thrown away, but it's only because of administrative error they say. Agriculture is in a subordinate position, including all our municipalities there are all subordinates, are agricultural, but unfortunately they are also in a subordinate position. We are talking about self-sustainment – 38 and 42 today is self-sustainment for agriculture – I don't know, it would be nice if it were at least 80%. What does 1% self-sustainment mean? It means a thousand new jobs. That's the information that counts. My Ormozans want a better arrangement, an economic normal life, to live a normal life from month to month, a better standard. When our leader of the parliamentary group said: “The nation is awakening, it is waking up slowly, but it is awakening. I hope that people will see who is the Member of Parliament [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Member. Your time is up. The next panellist is Mr Robert Polnar and prepares Andrej Šushmelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u110	Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your floor. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I have reviewed the last six final accounts of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia in their general work and I have found that, from 2012 to 2017, value added tax is in the structure of the total revenue of the budget, not just tax revenue, as a percentage of 37 to 40. This is said to be the farthest tax source in the world. This seems special to me and needs to be stressed because, even if it is trying to reduce it, it is necessary to treat extremes with caution. What I consider to be problematic is that the proposal for this law does not adequately value the quantification of the compensatory effects of the reduction in value added tax rates. We, ladies and gentlemen, have already witnessed very heated discussions in the National Assembly about the value of the coalition treaty. We have heard a debate about the fact that the ruling coalition threatens the economy to the point that it is threatened by its existence. You requested a practical numerical evaluation of almost every separation in a coalition agreement. It's all right, even fine, it's a matter of political tactics. You have led to the collective spiritual tragedy of paroxysm, the highest levels of irritability, especially in that part of the business community that responds to the acronym of the SBC, the Club of Slovenian Entrepreneurs. Of course, you would expect to be able to define, in reducing the value added tax rate, what will make up for the loss of revenue. All of this then fell into a few humble phrases taken from the theory of supply economy. This, ladies and gentlemen, is what I see as a discrediting circumstance in this whole matter. The second thing that I think is important to stress is the date you are proposing to move to new levels. January 1st. This is extremely difficult in terms of those who use or who would be obliged to apply the new tax rates. I speak mainly for companies in the fields of trade, hospitality and tourism. All these business entities must first carry out their information systems, then all support services, in particular accounting services, and in particular must carry out all inventory of goods during the period during which the most important and especially profitable season lasts, when the very important Slovenian companies in that December period are creating widespread, as well as net business outcomes that compensate for the losses of previous months. In the future, however, it would be better to place such things in the middle of the business year. It was said: the state of tax debt. I completely agree with you here. However, I tell you that the tax debt is divided into two parts; 766 million is an active tax debt and 500 million is conditionally recoverable. And the 500 million are divided into three segments, 480 million are in bankruptcy proceedings, 14 million are in enforcement procedures, and 6 million are left over — these are deaths and similar cases. And what's the problem with this story? In the case of 480 million and 14 million, it is estimated that 494 million, there is an extremely low profit from bankruptcy and forcible settlement. Here, ladies and gentlemen of the SDS, you're right. I also want to say something to Mr Tonin. He's not here today, or he's not here right now. I personally know the work of Professor Arthur Laffer, not overly detailed, but I know for sure his theoretical contribution to the theory of correlation between tax rates, the level of tax rates and the amount of tax revenue collected. These things are axiomatic in economic theory, and there's nothing to talk about. But I will tell you, more for illustration than for anything else, how one of the Presidents of the American Economic Advisers Council, Herbert Stein, expressed himself on the involvement of Mr Laffer in operational economic policy. He said that Mr Laffer had used the punk variant of the supply economy. He defined pankovsky as extreme or to extremes as bizarre. In Slovenian, we would call it an exaggeration freak. I do not say, ladies and gentlemen, that your proposal is bizarrely extreme. Absolutely not. But I want to illustrate to you one perfectly current situation. Yesterday, on the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, we discussed the proposal of the SDS Group of Ambassadors to physically close the borders between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. It is currently physically closed 176 kilometers from the border. There's still 494 kilometers left of the border that you're proposing to shut it down physically. We certainly do not need to prove that this requires funds, budgetary expenditure, which you are proposing to reduce today. And then when the Ministry of Finance tells you how much this is supposed to be, you're relativizing things. This, ladies and gentlemen, is what I do not think is actually going together and it is also not possible to adopt the intention of your proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčič has a procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u112	Thank you very much. We have now heard full explanations about economic theories and various economists, and I might ask if Mr Dragonja would not take a nap if he stood up and said so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u113	Thank you for your proposal. As I was informed, Mr Dragonja will be given the floor at the end of our debate. But if he wants to now, he doesn't. [[…]] Then, Mr. Jelinčič [[…]] The next panellist is Mr Andrej Šushmelj and will prepare Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u114	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have been talking here for quite some time about VAT reduction, which is actually a fraction of all the country's finances, but it is also about the difference between the European system and the US. Not last time Milton Friedman was mentioned here. Let me summarize a little bit very briefly. The United States has a different logic, does not have public health, education – partly in public, partly in private. I remember the scenes when the cut fingers were explained, the work accident, every finger costing so much thousands of dollars to sew, this finger is going to cost 10,000, this finger is going to cost 3,000. The European Union and the whole of Europe, including non-members of the European Union, have different commitments to citizens, and this is the social state – not the socialist one, as some interpret it, but the social state that cares for its citizens. What is the extent of this concern, in which forms – this is, of course, different from country to country. And we cannot defend that Slovenia is the perfect country, that everything in this country works wonderfully, but we are aware that with such a failure as would have occurred as a result of such a reduction in VAT, something in this country would no longer work, so these services should be cut off for citizens. If we just look at the structure of the country's income. There is talk of VAT, VAT reduction – VAT is only one of the country's revenues. We should still be able to discuss taxation of employees' incomes, taxation of employers and, of course, VAT in the end, when some socialist weights have been mentioned or I do not know what. So if we compare Slovenia with other European countries – what should we say then? That all countries with a higher rate of taxation, that they are some socialist countries, all countries with a lower rate of taxation are slightly less socialist countries? This finding would not hold up because the huge difference in the size of these countries is in the level of development. Slovenia must remain a developing country, which must also be competitive. But the increase in added value is always based exclusively on technology and technology depends on investment in high technology, because it is the best link between creating added value. When I have flown the numbers of countries with the largest economic growth at this point in time, I can say that we will not catch them — no country in Europe — calmly. These two countries are currently India and China, with a population of 2.7 billion, with a rate not reached by any European country, not by the United States. Our only advantage is to invest in added value through technological development. And yes, Slovenia, like all other European countries, has a wide range of services for its citizens. What are we going to cut from this, dear fellow proponents and supporters? Although, we will see what else can be done in the area of other tides. As I mentioned, it's not just VAT. Slovenia has very high tax revenues and, say, comparatively, the employer has less tax. So this is where we talk about three quantities. The borders between them are variable between different European countries. But here it is interpreted as if the only saving source is just a movement of VAT up and down, as if elsewhere everything is perfect. We can never agree that everything is perfect, nor will it. But in such a one-sided way now, on our noses, we absolutely cannot agree to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u115	Thank you, too. Mr Matjaž Han has the next word to prepare Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u116	First of all, the fear I had at the outset that this would be some kind of ideological debate, I must say that I am quite pleased, because I think it was a relatively good constructive and genuine debate. However, I would like to say some of my concluding thoughts. Mr Marko said he agreed that if this law was adopted, the money collected would probably be significantly less in the budget. So if there's less money to be collected, we'll have to cut somewhere, my dears. And if we cut, we will be able to cut on wages, on social transfers, on municipalities and then, my dear advocates of firefighters, you know, the main task of the municipality is that it is in some way also financed by firefighting companies. There won't be any money for firefighters and equipment if we have to cut somewhere. So don't play demagogy on those people we really need every day. Another thing I would say, if this economy is so simple, my dears, then let's lower by 10% of VAT, and give one to zero, and then everything in this country will go well and all economic growth will go up. You know it's not like that. We are a country with 2 million people, we need some institutions and some institutions must also be financed from the budget. Last thing I'd say. I've been monitoring your electoral campaign, my fellow SDS. You said that for every marriage you file, you will terminate two marriages. I don't see any other law to end it now in this law you filed today.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr Daniel Krivec, and Mr Franc Jurša is preparing himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! Comrade Han, it's a change of law, not a new marriage, so there's no need to end one. However, we are solving a matter that was introduced because of some of the situations that were called the crisis at the time, and on this basis some tax was increased. It was also introduced as a temporary and later adopted as a permanent measure. We all agree that legislation needs to be amended when possible and when it makes sense. Given the longer economic growth that has taken place during this period, the conditions are met. Now, on a specific issue, where we are not talking about any revolutionary changes, but mainly about tax rates returning to a pre-crisis level, by further introducing a lower tax rate for certain articles and articles that are directly linked to the needs of people or to those most urgent matters, such as children's clothing, education services and so on. What some of you have said is that this is some measure that other countries do not know, in the material, you have in the table that most countries have two lower levels, different degrees and so on. The second argument you have is that this will not produce some results or that it will reduce revenue in the country's budget and build an entire story on it. All we talk about is how to reduce payments or prices of certain services in stores and so on. You forget some of the key things that will also fall; all the services and orders ordered by the public sector are subject to VAT because they are end-users, not least because colleague Han was also mayor. He well knows that, over a period of time, this VAT has been glued to European funds and this has been significantly higher – a greater burden on the budgets of the municipalities when individual investment taxes have also begun to be paid. Now, if, in some way, it is reduced or not, some revenue from the VAT collection budget may also be reduced by the transfer to public institutions, because they will pay lower costs for individual purchases, investments and this matter can be completely peacefully compensated – no one is yet in front of the sentence, I hope that Mr Dragonja will also explain whether this theory is true or not. But given that this is the end-user's payment, not those who are in the intermediate phase – economic operators, as you know, are charging themselves an entry and exit tax, and in this case it doesn't matter how much the rate is, because they're clearing it and the final tax is paid by the final users. In this case, all buying citizens, on the other hand, all who are in some way in the public sector, from schools, kindergartens, municipalities and so on, who are the final contracting authority of certain services. If we reduce this by two percent or one percent in the other case of payment of certain services, the burden on the Treasury is also reduced. That's how you have to look at it with more perspectives. All the other arguments cited in today's debate, including the promotion of greater consumption and possibly a larger investment cycle, are a fact. 2 % in the case of certain investments in the local community is not so small. You forget that when you speak, and you speak very much that the budget cuts will be, so there will be no certain investments, at the same time forget that these investments will continue to be at least two percent cheaper. That's how you have to rent it and look at the whole story. On the other hand, you are also urged to increase the income of both pensioners and those with payments by two percent. This will also balance the whole matter. This allows someone to spend more and more VAT to be collected. But the key thing for me is that for two percent, all investment in final subscribers is lower when we talk about all local communities, all schools, all purchases in this case and even in health care. I hope that some answer will come from the ministry, whether it is true or not, and otherwise I don't understand whether one plus one is two or not. However, for so long, I would say, even in this national assembly, and not least in certain functions earlier, that I know what VAT means in the final accounts. If my investment decreases by 2%, my investment is 2% lower. You can nod or not, that's your problem. The same is true when a measure is given to the municipality, where it receives as much European funding as possible, we take into account VAT as usual and if it is 2% lower, it is also well known. By putting all of this on the table, perhaps this proposal of ours to change is not as stupid as it seems to some and is not self-indulgent, but it also has some concrete results in practice. However, given that we have our first reading today and that it can also be completed or also rejected at the next stage, if this is justified by some real calculations, not by the flat-rate ones we have in the material, but we can talk. However, if we start by speaking and starting with the same practice that when something is proposed on our part, it is inappropriate, inappropriate, populist and so on, then we will also end this mandate badly.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The following is Mr Franz Jurša's word, and as the final discusser, the Mags should be prepared. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u120	Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! If we evaluate from two angles and think about who is usually a tax cutter and who advocates tax evasion, we can quickly come to a certain conclusion. When you're in the opposition, of course, you're proposing this, because these proposals are relatively popular, they count for people. But in the beginning, I must tell my colleague Daniel that this proposal is not wrong at all, that he is not stupid. It is not stupid, but it is necessary to follow, at least for all of us, to provide sufficient resources for the normal functioning of this country. But in some way, I wouldn't agree. I would not agree, however, that the lowest inflows or incomes are the most affected here. Yeah, they're hurt, but they don't pay most of the VAT in the final sequence. Most of the VAT is actually paid by those who actually buy quite a lot, and you know who spends it. Of course, to those with lower incomes, we can provide other funds in an appropriate manner. I know you won't agree with this, but it makes sense, and I'm going to keep trying to say over my finger, what I'm thinking, who can get some stuff here. Look, I don't want to judge the individual and his debate. This is not my intention at all, but I would like to say something about the Sugar Factory in Ormož, because one of the discussers also talked about it. You know, the Ormož Sugar Factory closed down because of its wider interest, not in Slovenia, but in Europe, because the world market for sugar was actually under pressure, and the owners, who were not Slovenians, proposed this factory for closure and in some ways paid their own compensation. It is true that here in Slovenia they made a certain mistake in decommissioning a sugar factory or factory and that Slovenia had to pay back 9 million because it did not decompose that part of the sugar factory. You know, when prices rise, we can quickly come to a conclusion or VAT, which is now 22%, and if we were to reduce it to 20%, something like what happened to us when we took over the euro, and we were doing comparisons with the German brand, and relatively quickly we came to realize that prices were actually transferred one way: one, although two were spoken: one. You have made this proposal for VAT in order to reduce it from 22% to 20%. Then you also made a proposal to reduce it from 9% to 8% and an additional one, and you are proposing a lower tax by 5%. This is for agriculture and other matters that you should not repeat, which you also listed in this case. I mentioned earlier that I will try to tell my vision of how in fact we can provide an appropriate part of the budget for those with lower incomes, regardless of the fact that we will not reduce VAT. Look, this coalition has written in its coalition contract that it wants. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Jursha. Your time is up. I'll give you the word "magic" first. Branku Grims, he has the floor to propose. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u122	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I would only respond to the debate that Mr Jurša has now had. We all know that value added tax is the most a social tax and whether the Member or the unemployed pay the same tax for a kilo of bread. This means that value added tax is most affected by those with the lowest income. Do not say that if the value added tax is reduced, the question is whether prices will actually fall. They're scared. All net prices will change at that time. These are mainly key: oil derivatives, gas, utilities, telephone issues. I am also convinced that trade matters will be followed by competition, that prices will be lowered. Above all, this is about the fact that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we would like to increase the net available income of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in their wallet and not burden the economy at the same time. That's the key. And the available revenue in the budget is significantly higher than in 2014, when this tax was increased. I now really expect the Secretary of State to tell us what the tax revenues were in 2014 and what they are foreseen for 2018.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u123	Thank you very much. As the last debater, Mr Mag has the floor. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u124	Good-bye to all of you. Look, we live in a country where taxpayers are overloaded. Whoever challenges this in the National Assembly is knowingly lying, you all know that. And something has to be done. The easiest thing to do is to realize what is before us today. The value added tax is actually the most a social tax. What does this mean if we lower it by applying lower rates, especially for heating, for all that is covered by the proposals of lower rates on our proposal? We help the socially weak. For those who have at least their wallets, because their actual purchasing power will increase the most. Some of you say yes, but then all the prices will go up another way. This is the mentality of the existing government. Where it brings it, we see it beautifully in the heat. At this point, all Slovenians and Slovenians need to supply fuel for the winter or something to smoke with. What can we find out? Smoking oil in Slovenia, with substantially lower wages, is more expensive for a third than in neighbouring Austria. This is the result of the tax policy, excise duties and this mentality that we are talking about here today. Who's most affected by this? The richest? Ah, come on! How much does one guy use to warm up a house? What difference does it make if he is rich or poor? In Slovenia, it is a very interesting situation to have an extremely large number of people in a private house, and you are obviously deeply disturbed by this, so you predict an absurd, excessive, criminal or, if you want, nationalization tax on property, which will cause you to tear down the real estate market and under the pretext of punishing those who have the most. What's gonna happen? Those who have the most will buy at a price the properties of those who will lose them. That's what you guys are really doing. You punish the weakest and full of mouths are those of social and social justice, which the Government should then enforce. Where will the government take it? Then you say, yes, how can you come up with a tax reduction proposal! Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it will be necessary to save money, but not as some of you said in the coalition that we will take the congregations, and we will take them all. There's only one thing you've forgotten. The country will be saving. You, ladies and gentlemen should be saving. This is very simple, but it is not necessary for citizens and citizens at all. Every migrant, which we place over the border after a sudden procedure, saves 2 000 euros a month to Slovenian taxpayers; in fact, much more. What is the sum of money you left-wing governments spend on this madness has been wonderfully seen in that budget in 2016. 123 million euros went to illegal migrants. Now you've put this in a little bit, but you've hidden it on different items, and every week there's a new call for a few million euros. Watch out for five years. And you're talking about this problem being solved and it's gone. And then another colleague who spoke earlier from the coalition says why you're defending the fence in the south, and they're starting to seriously control that migrants don't come across the border. Ladies and gentlemen, because this madness costs enormously. But it suits you because you see new voters in them, because your goal is to make it a poor country, and with the poor you can manipulate them nicely and then take them as sheep, especially if you enforce so-called censorship or, as you kindly call it, persecution of hate speech, you can take them wherever you want. And that's your goal. The country of the poor, who can be manipulated and told by you, will take care of you, and in the end you will all fly to the voters, and they will vote for the left, and they will not even think that they are poor because they have elected the left, left-wing people in such and different forms. Because the whole government coalition with their main supervisor is just a derivative of the left, which is called one way or another. That's why it's a problem. A few days ago, I had the opportunity to speak to one ambassador from one country on the other side of the world. She could not understand what it was like in Slovenia until I simply told her that we were still living in a country run by people who were mentally in socialism. Then she understood everything. Because it's really a Slovenian everyday. This makes it impossible at all to talk rationally about how it would be necessary to lower taxes for all: for citizens, citizens, for entrepreneurs. For it is not true that the country is the one that is more just and rational than citizens and citizens themselves. Nowhere in the world has it proved to be more rational for the state to allocate money or to be a better entrepreneur than private entrepreneurs. Nowhere in the world! That's why socialism has collapsed everywhere, and it's going to collapse everywhere, in whatever form you're going to introduce it. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Slovenia is in trouble. That is why the last best Slovenian entrepreneurs are leaving now. These days, we read how Boscarol cleaned up his employees and went across the border. Because of you, ladies and gentlemen, you are responsible. You have deprived this country with your stupidity, with your predictions, with your coalition contract for all the taxes and contributions that this entrepreneur would have paid if he had stayed in Slovenia, and put an additional number of people on the bereaved stick and on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Because you don't even understand that there are rational limits to which people and entrepreneurs can be taxed, and then there's only damage. No one's objecting to any tax being necessary. The tax is necessary to ensure that we have adequate education, health care and everything else. But, ladies and gentlemen, paying taxes for what you're giving, and that's a crime, that's an illegal act in truth. You give them to illegal migrants, you give them to NGOs that import these illegal migrants across borders. When I warned you about this before the elections, you yelled at the sky and hid behind firemen, how that was not true. But now documents have been published, ladies and gentlemen, which no one has denied because they are police records. Declarations to migrants, how PIC and others of those NGOs based on LBTQ ideology, on the ideology of sex, or, if you like, the type of Peace Institute, as I then expressed myself how they walk down, direct them, invite them to do even worse and then call the Slovenian police and blackmail them: Make sure you grant this right to asylum and how you treat them. [[…]] Wait, people of God! What kind of country do we live in? In a country of real socialism! That's how this can happen, in a normal state of law it can't be because before marriage everyone is the same. It is well known that if someone breaks across borders, he has exactly three rights. Only three; that he was arrested, that he was processed, that he was banished. The end of the list of rights. With us, it's all paid for. It is paid in millions, and these millions are, of course, taken by ordinary taxpayers; therefore, they are significantly worse off than they are. They're overpaying for absurdity, like, the fuel oil they need to get right now. Or coal or anything else. And when the price of electricity is proposed to go down, the price of burning oil will go down — no, no! Who did you really help? Those who are socially weak so that they can live a life worth living. In order not to happen, ladies and gentlemen, what happened two years ago when there was a hypothermia in the weakest layer in Slovenia, because people simply did not get enough fuel in time for winter, it was a very sharp winter and in one case there was even a hypothermia that ended with death. You all know that. Here's a suggestion that the prices of heat, heating prices, should be reduced. And you're against it. Somebody else freezes, and it's important that you import migrants. That's your logic that you said right here today. I'm just translating your beautiful speech into Slovenian so everyone can understand what's really going on. And spend on it. Do you know what is being paid for by the Slovenian government? For example, NGOs are also paid and financed to help delay legal procedures for migrants when their proposal for a vote comes to light. That it's been dragging for months. And don't say that this doesn't achieve the goal that you have to keep these people here. Because, today in Slovenia, you will not believe, not only is he walking happily, but he is still working black! Mr. Ahmad Shamieh! Ladies and gentlemen of finance, from Furs, I'm making a public application for a black job in the Horn. Please go over there and make an order. You mess with every Slovenian entrepreneur, you stand at his door, you wait for him to make one mistake, you punish him draconically, he closes the enterprise, he finishes his employees at the employment office – because this is your goal, the state of the poor – and Ahmad Shamieh makes a fool of you to publish it publicly on the Internet. At the same time, he predicts together with his supporters, whom you, ladies and gentlemen of government species, pay as NGOs to have a round table right now in Slovenia, where he will explain all these things around. On televisions that are under your influence, it's shown as a victim. To make a man cry. The man left his family and five children — or four children — fled in the war. Now that the war is over, he won't even get back to them. This is true that he should weep: but he who makes a story out of it. If we were a state of law, ladies and gentlemen, we would be cheaper. Because Ahmad Shamieh would have shot Croatia a long time ago. And he's not the only one, he's just a symbol of what's really going on, because in Slovenia there's a pretty good number of Ahmad Shamiehs, and you all know that very well. And that's your responsibility. Your government, your government has in its hands an apparatus that should enforce laws, but does not enforce them, and the costs for this non-execution, for knowingly violating legislation, you expose to Slovenian taxpayers. So how come you're not ashamed? Because you know that with your soft wing, the media that's under your influence will try to cover it up. But now there are alternative media, and here is mainly the Internet, which is becoming a very powerful medium. Therefore, in the last days, even today in this room, unfortunately, what I think is a shame, is talking about the intense persecution of hate speech, and if you listen well, of course you can see exactly what this hate speech is — all that bothers the leftist and, above all, the truth. For the worst thing a left-handed man can bear is that you tell him the truth in his face. You all know that. Therefore, he tries to tell those who hope to speak in one way or another, to close their mouths, or at least to interrupt the public’s opportunity to hear, to see, to learn the facts so that we can then have a real picture of the country. That it's such a work that costs again and by the way you're charging it back to taxpayers, so you're against VAT. To keep this work going, of course, you will do everything in your power, because it is the only thing on which you base your authority. If people had a clear picture, then no one would ever vote left-wing. But you know, what is even the saddest thing about this story is that it is not only contrary to democratic values, but it is also contrary to the Slovenian Constitution and it is clearly contrary to the Slovenian Constitution. For the Slovenian Constitution makes it very clear that it must be accessible to everyone at any time, with different points of view, ladies and gentlemen, this is the purpose of the Constitution and its provisions: available information on any, for a society of relevant issues, because this is the only way democracy works. If the flow of information is interrupted, of course, democracy becomes a farce and then we are witnessing such stories as we have heard in this room today. Here is a proposal to help those who are socially weak in the easiest way to increase their purchasing power, to lower the absurdly excessive prices of certain goods, I warn among them again – beware – how much higher the average wages in Austria than in Slovenia are, how much higher the lowest wages in Austria, how much more is left with the same gross wage for every employee, and how much lower the fuel oil is. Because here we have the swallowing power, the swallowing government, because we have up-to-date excise duties, VAT and all. That's why he spends his money on migrants, for all the nonsense, for the financing of those NGOs who then rape kids after school with the ideology of sex and explain to them how right it is for girls to be with girls and boys with boys – that's what my children have experienced, ladies and gentlemen! If I had been informed of this immediately, I would have filed a criminal complaint, I would have subsequently – the police did nothing! I claim that the school has no such right, no authority has the right to expose it; and at the expense of taxpayers! That's why you're against lowering the VAT! To expose children to such influence! School needs to learn what's natural. Children have a very nice, clear picture: Dad, Mommy, baby. And whoever comes to explain it, the fourth year of elementary school, such things ladies and gentlemen, should be prosecuted. And those who give it to him, and those who pay for it, twice as much! This, ladies and gentlemen, is why you are really against VAT cuts today because you need money for such things. If we stopped spending money on stupidity in this country, Slovenia could be a very wealthy country in a moment. You could lower taxes, you could remove bureaucratic obstacles, you could eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy, which you only have to keep yours there, and you could, of course, rank: You could do it, you could give a license, you wouldn't do it because you're not ours. And you will never come along, and you can have the best idea of this world — go abroad! Don't tell me this isn't happening, ladies and gentlemen! From Kranj, I have information from the administrative unit and from the municipality that happened to entrepreneurs who came up with ideas that only came to ask for certain rights, to realize certain acts, to buy land and so on and so on, to change their destination. They were told to go abroad. It was official Watch out, the administrative unit represents the country, all of you. [[…]] That was officially said, I can bring in the people who have experienced this. Some have also been exposed at this time, so that probably not necessary. Then what country are we? They'd charge taxes until they passed out. From this we would pay all the nonsense and ideology of this world, of course the one that is close to you, and would not allow this country to live as it could. Slovenia could be an extremely successful country of rich people and wealthy entrepreneurs. Only taxes should be substantially reduced and the country should be severely reduced. That doesn't mean we don't need any more, like, health care. On the contrary! We'd need good rational health care without red leeches that consume not only millions of dollars but billions of dollars. And then when it turns out that they're connected to different left-wing media, and different left-wing parties, and so on. Then it's clear why this is happening. We'd need health care, but this health care has to be effective. It has to be that there's no waiting species. In Taiwan, ladies and gentlemen, that's what they have, for example. As an example, you won't believe it, it doesn't matter, and everyone has all the right, they can choose public health or private health. About a half-and-a-half is one or the other. In both cases, the State only pays for the service because it is competition, ladies and gentlemen. Competition reduces costs on its own, and then there is no need for absurd taxes to the sky. And you are always shouting again how to establish monopolies: a monopoly in education, a monopoly in health – of course, in this sense a monopoly that God does not give, that the state should co-finance or limit it. But if there's anything, it has to be stopped. There have been very public debates, now in the past months, ladies and gentlemen, that I do not know which forms of privacy should be suppressed and so on. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, it's such a expensive country, and that's why you're against lowering VAT! VAT may be paid in this way [[Finger-toed clap]] lowers, which is why people will not only live as well, but even better. And that's essential. All you have to do is want it. Of course, I believe that you are not prepared to give up everything you finance with taxpayers' money. I've told you some of the most extreme cases in the sky. You yourself have done this in the past few years to capture what has never happened before. Like, stories related to Europe and so on. All of this irritates the country, takes all of this and gives it to others, and because of this as a whole, it is not effective as a country. Ladies and gentlemen, today and here is the opportunity to at least take the first step towards this – which I am sure everyone in Slovenia would like – to live well in order to start becoming a country of rich individuals. All individuals, ladies and gentlemen! Not only are you left-handed, you have a layer of extremely rich people at the top, but you work for the poor. And you're talking about equality. If we released Slovenia's development potential by lowering taxes, with a more rational organisation of the country, we would have better lives in Slovenia in a moment, and the tax flow to the tax box would have been higher at lower VAT, as more employees, more entrepreneurs, faster to turn the money around – it would be forgotten many times. Now is the time, for if you observe what is happening on the world markets, you can imagine a new storm coming again. Let's just hope it's not as bad as it was years ago. Which means now is the time to release the development potential, ladies and gentlemen. And I know what you're smiling at right now, and you're thinking -- great, there's going to be more unemployed, there's going to be more in the country, and we're going to say, we're just giving it to you. Unfortunately, some people even believe that. You take it from them, ladies and gentlemen. You take the weakest man's life worth living. And that's what today is really about. If you want to give people a better life, especially the socially weak ones, you will vote in favour of reducing VAT. If you want to preserve everything I've talked about, which this country doesn't need, which I also say most people don't want in this country, then the vast majority won't; then you will vote against. The moment you press the button, there will be a moment of truth.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Mag. Grimes. I'll give you the procedure right away. I just want to say. At the outset, I did not want to remind you that you have overstepped the subject of today's debate several times; however, at this point, I would warn you if you would discuss today in the rest of the time to stick to the topic that is on the agenda today. Now Mr Željko Cigler has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members, honourable Members Grimes! Mr Grims, we have now witnessed the extremely unethical use of the public word in the National Assembly, the supreme legislative body. Vice President, I think you should have reacted sooner. The use of such words, discriminatory, homophobic, racist; and if a refugee replaced the word with a Jew, this reminds me of the discourse of the Nazis during World War II. I'm sorry, those words don't belong in this House. And when this happened in the European Parliament, when an MEP from Poland insulted women's dignity and spoke of women like that, he was sanctioned. I don't think that's the word in the National Assembly. Vice President, I'm asking you to react another time.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u127	Thank you for your proposal. I agree with you, so I warned Mr Grimes. Now I give him my word for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u128	Madam President, I suggest you read the Rules of Procedure first. Secondly, if you're talking about me overstepping the debate, tell me what it is. I was talking about how money is spent, and that's why he doesn't want to lower the VAT. And that's the topic we're talking about today. So I request your apology for unwarranted criticism on my account. As far as my colleague's concerned, it's very simple. If he is talking about refugees, then he should first learn what is a refugee under international law and who can be a refugee and who is a migrant and who is an illegal migrant. All of these are expressions that you need to have a very clear concept of the treasure before you use these things. If he wants a colleague, we can happily talk to him about these matters anywhere. But as for homophobicity and the like, I was talking about ideology and about some allowing minors to familiarize themselves with a particular ideology. I submit that no one has this right under this Constitution, which is in force in the Republic of Slovenia; only parents have the right to choose how and in accordance with what values they will raise their children. No one has the right to do that. Read the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a respected colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u129	Mr. Grimes, you won't get my apology. But I can read you section 75 of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph two, second sentence. The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. If I listened carefully, believe me, you were talking about migrants, you just said you were talking about raising and educating minors, so I think my warning was on the spot. We are now going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the Government's representative and the proposer are given the floor. First, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary Method Dragonji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u130	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! First of all, on behalf of the Government, I would like to reiterate what was said at the outset of the recital and refers to the proposal by the proposer for a legislative proposal amending the VAT law, reducing the VAT rate and introducing the third, minimum tax rate – public finance is not sustainable. That's the government's assessment. A further assessment by the Government to jeopardise the implementation of commitments under the Fiscal Rule Act and the provisions of the Stability and Growth Pact. Measures in the tax area which have a significant impact on public financial revenues should only be imposed in a financially neutral manner at a time when the desired structural balance has not yet been reached. This is said to be a prerequisite for how the proposed effects are neutralised. According to the government's assessment, this is not a sustainable way. The estimated impact of the implementation of the proposed law, as assessed by the Government and the Ministry of Finance at annual level, is €580 million, to the extent that public financial revenues would be reduced. This assessment also takes into account the potential savings of the budgetary users of the public sector of the state budget. This estimate is made at a level between €40 million and €60 million per year. However, this assessment does not take into account the impact of potential savings that would be present at the local community level and at the health treasury. However, if we roughly assume that this would be at the same level as at the level of the state budget, the local community and the two coffers together, we are somewhere about EUR 100 million. Slovenia will, assuming no change in its basic public spending policies, continue to seek to achieve the long-term sustainability of public finances, in accordance with the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact. This year, a surplus of 0,5 % of the gross social product by the State is foreseen. In the budget projections under this scenario for 2019, this surplus will decrease to 0.2% of GDP. During the period 2015-2018, revenue growth averaged 4,2 % in the state budget and overrun expenditure growth, which was on average 0.9 % per year during the same period. This means that revenue growth by 3.3 percentage points is higher than expenditure growth. Only such movements have ensured a gradual elimination of the fiscal imbalances that have been present in Slovenia since the 2008 financial crisis and throughout the period following macroeconomic and public financial adjustment to the objectives required by the Stability and Growth Pact. The government will also continue fiscal consolidation and medium-term balance in priority areas over the 2018-2022 mandate period, with additional emphasis on supporting growth in particular, not just financial consolidation. From the point of view of the appropriateness of such a policy in the tax area, the government will strive for tax restructuring, which will follow a fair and equitable distribution of public financial burdens while ensuring a reduction of administrative barriers; in particular, it will increase the international competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Such guidelines require changes in the structure of the tax burdens of taxpayers, which will be the basic course of action for this mandate. The discussions have already highlighted that value added tax is the most taxed source of the Republic of Slovenia's budget. It varies slightly over the various years, but represents 37-38% of the budget's revenue. This year's VAT revenue is projected at €3 billion 606 million; the budget implementation estimate by the end of the year is €3 billion 700 million; this is said to be a slight surplus in this area. While I have already answered the questions raised in the discussion, what was the growth in the budgetary revenues or tax revenues of the state budget for the period 2015-2018; if we look at the starting year for which the applicant proposed that data be given, the tax revenues in 2014 were €6 billion 577 million and the estimated level of tax revenue for this year would be €8 billion 176 million. This is said to be a surplus or increase over this period of EUR 1 billion 599 million. In this part, as it is said, VAT is the most important and most issued tax source, so the scope for reducing VAT in the proposed form is not seen by the government. The government also emphasises that the VAT reduction area is already heavily consumed in the budget commitments already adopted, through an increase in social transfers and family policy measures that will have an impact on public spending in the following year. Let me sum up, the current budgetary and public financial position of the Republic of Slovenia does not provide an opportunity to reduce value added tax, so the government opposes the adoption of the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Now I give the floor to the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u132	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I think you've given us all that last information. Compared to 2014, there are more tax revenues in the budget than about 1.6 billion, which means 200 million more than we had in the Slovenian Democratic Party. And if you can't lower the tax to a pre-crisis level now, then I don't know, you're incompetent. 1.6 billion more tax revenues than compared to 2014. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that such a step would be positive, would be positive for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, would be positive for the Slovenian economy. Unfortunately, however, the government of Marjan Šarc will continue the policy of the former government, which means a policy of additional indebtedness and additional burdens; especially economies and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u133	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate remains, I ask whether there is anyone else who wishes to discuss it under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Because yes, we will open the debate. Mr. Starovic, you can switch off the microphone, please. Thank you. If a representative of the proposed Magi law proposal also applies to the discussion. Marko Pogačnik or a representative of the Government will get the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. Now I'm asking you to apply. The application is under way. Each debater has 5 minutes of time available. The first one has the word, Mr. Yuri Leprechaun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u134	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I applied because I think that the debate that has been going on is real; and also since we are Members, who are also present, we are also paid to speak and discuss. That is why I will also try to add some of my thoughts to this common good. It is also possible that we know that what we are going to do today will be done. Certainly every debate on our obligations as citizens, citizens, citizens and citizens for our country is right to be debated. To reduce VAT at this time, to relieve profits, to reduce contributions, these are all measures that reduce revenue in our national budget. From this point of view, personally, because I'm trying to understand who's thinking, it's clear that then it would just be a minus, but nothing on the revenue side. I will always try to give my attention to this problem. I think that, at this point in time, contributions and taxes on wages should be left at some level, not touched; and that additional resources should be sought by some other measures that are also possible. Let's say the corporate income tax, which is now taxed on 19% or 20%; but then it can be that if a craftsman, a company, wants to invest something, this tax can be reduced to zero. I myself have been dealing with the economy for 35 years, which would be least damaging to me if the relief given by the State would not be zero, but would leave a percentage, let's say 10%; and it would be far less bad. I am also prepared or we know that we cannot make some conclusions without the Economic and Social Council, which is very important that we have some order and peace in the country. I also believe that to tell you that for me the foundation is property that we have acquired in one way or another; and also freedom that we have in one way or another. I would not be divided — leftists, right - handed men; but I am a man who respects property, respects fellow humans, respects differences. So I can't fit in some of the extreme directions mentioned here. Everyone has an opinion, and everyone can say what he thinks, so we are Members; and I have no problem thinking differently than I do. In all of history, what I've just done with some work, believe me, but small entrepreneurs won't pay minimum wages if they want to keep someone. So this is one story that those who are good workers will also have good wages. Earlier it was said, little did it stab me too, that the espouses were, as was already said by a fellow proposalr. [[…]] I'll tell you that. If we pay espionage fees and taxes for one week, we get a notice from Furs right away. So to speak, espeii and small entrepreneurs do not violate the law. But if they're barabbas, they're inspectors who have to make sure they don't pay taxes. And that's what used to be weird. If you're working 90% or 99% for a company, it's like you have entrance accounts, you have exit accounts, it's impossible for that person to cheat. But if he's cheating, there are things that this inspection should find out why this is happening. Believe me, within these craftsrooms we also have constant problems, so we have great problems that some are working in black, as we say. But in this situation, we're not defending him either, because he's got small contributions. With regard to the tax that we now want to abolish or reduce, I am convinced that we must keep it; but we must look for additional resources on the revenue side. But what are these sources, and given what knowledge we have in this House, if we were capable or capable of bringing any of us together so that this energy of ours would go to the center, believe me, it would be quick to swim out of this story. I think Slovenia is on the right track. There is no ideal path, believe me, we know that everything is not ideal; but we are on a path, if we are together, we will swim out together. However, it is important that we take into account all the proposals made by the opposite party or partners. I personally took them for granted. And even with what you've said, I'm also going to study at home, and I'm going to go into a little bit of a theory. Because today there was so much theory that I slowly said to myself – for God's sake, I studied, and I don't understand much. There are some things that you should also say are such stories. Let us be so moderate, so patient, so respectful to one another. And even the opinion that we have, maybe I or others, should go into this record and perhaps bring good things to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u136	It was very interesting that revenue increased by 1.6 billion. This, ladies and gentlemen, is huge. This also says a lot about the perseverance of Slovenian entrepreneurship in the past years and its vitality; therefore, all recognition to Slovenian entrepreneurs. At the same time, this is the basis that enables and directs in itself to lower taxes. That the time is right, the optimum time is long past, but it is high time. When you are looking for a justification for lowering taxes, then you should introduce what is practically applicable in the US Parliament whenever you talk about money and taxes, it is cost-benefit analysis. The state leaves something to the citizens, leaves something to the entrepreneurs because they give up one part of the taxes they might have, because they get something for it. I'll put it very simply, but look at this on a specific case. Why do you think in Austria they have a whole system of tax reliefs for new companies? Why do they have an extremely wide system of tax flats that literally everyone can choose for themselves? That is why, ladies and gentlemen, because in this way the state will allow the first accumulation to start entrepreneurship to choose something. It's no big deal if he's left with something if the country picks up a little bit less. Save it by not controlling as much as Slovenia. And then people out there like to pay taxes because taxes are fair, they're on a normal level. But what does that do? Allowing that entrepreneur to acquire the funds that he then invests; it is only right that this is the maximum tax relief because someone has previously put it into difficulty. Why? Because this opens up new productive jobs, which are the best social security for all. At the same time, this is where the country can then also approach, because for these new, additional productive jobs, of course, taxes are paid. But at the same time, everyone deserves, everyone's richer, money's turning faster, and that way they get an even more positive economy. This is the huge difference that causes a difference in the rate of development between one system and another. As this one is, in the final stage, it's great to see in the case of Gorenjska, where I come from. Gorenska was more productive than neighbouring Austria by the time World War II was practically all three times, after some even four times more developed. Then it began with this thought that it was necessary to take, that it was necessary to exhaust, we said that Sava was running south, once to Belgrade, today to Ljubljana. And then everything stays on the level. Today is an opportunity to lower VAT. This is an opportunity for all those you always have full of mouth, for the weakest layers, because this increases actual purchasing power, disproportionately the weakest layer. For a litre of boiling oil costs rich or poor the same. I mentioned earlier the Slovenian specialty that the vast majority of people have private properties. And you need to be warmed up. And that is why such a measure, as we propose, is for the benefit of the weakest layers, in favour of maintaining the rural population, in favour of the even development of Slovenia, in favour of all those who would like to strengthen our country of Slovenia. At the same time, we are proposing the introduction of an additional reduced VAT rate, which many other countries also know. Even Luxembourg, if you like. When you mentioned that it was just for some cases. Even in a more radical form than we suggest. It's because we want to help everyone to live better. But the opportunity is here and now.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The next one has the word Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u138	Vice President, thank you for your word. I would only draw attention to the experience, which we are now hearing about this causal link, to the experience we have already experienced in Slovenia. By reducing taxes and increasing the overall indebtedness of Slovenia – the population, economy and financial institutions. At that time, debt increased from 17 billion to 43 billion in total debt. We went to the casino capitalism, we invested in stocks, we overpaid, I don't know what was going on, the tacwonization was wild, the privatisation was still going on, and we ended up in the crisis – the taxes were low, no reserves – which had overwhelmed us and now we're fighting it. As all over the world, because we are in a monetary economy, the only way — and so is the SDS — is by the party that is proposing the law today, the only way is to rehabilitate banks too, to fix things so that we can save the economy. Otherwise, there would be more bankruptcy if we allowed the bank to fail, there would be confiscations of apartments, houses, cars, workshops. So in this money economy, we shouldn't joke, and we need to get some reserves. Definitely. It has also been warned from colleagues that we do not know how close this crisis is, and we do not know how close it is. On the other hand, we still have a long time left because we had to socialize it, as it once said. After all, it had to be socialised in America and other countries when they came into this crisis. Private debts had to be split up to say so easily. That's what we're getting into, and now we're fighting it. Let's not make that mistake again. Let us be serious and take this country seriously. Now we have also managed to reduce public debt, in particular we have reduced interest by smart planning since the previous government, among Cerar, there has also been growth; and also by reducing public debt and reducing interest to pay. You know we've been paying interest for over a billion dollars. That's why we went to the casino of entrepreneurship. All economic knowledge, including this year's Nobel Prize winners, clearly say that you cannot leave everything free, but that the country has an important role to play in regulating and ensuring growth and also in providing resources through other systems so that the lowest levels do not suffer, if I say so, that we do not have poverty in the country. And this system, this causal link to make it better for them now, because we're going to reduce VAT, it's not true; because it's going to undermine the system. We keep the system together and build it properly; not ad hoc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'll start there somehow, just like I finished. I'm not going to continue with Arthur Laffer's macro-economic theory when, at one dinner, a reporter at The Wall Street Journal somehow drew his curve on the napkin and proved it; exactly what we're proving to you today. So the increase in tax rates, we get once and somewhere to that limit value, to a point where we collect less with higher taxes. And in Slovenia this has started to happen. For what reason I justify how the market works on this, I can tell you very simply. This can be found mainly by cars of luxury production, which today have Slovak plates in which Slovenian citizens drive. If you go across the border, you'll see that people at the social bottom are also shopping in stores in Austria, their gas stations are full. Look, we're not aware either; because of the geostrategic position, this is happening to us. But if we were in the Danish position or higher, there is no problem, we can have 23%. Where do I get the tax? Around this border point, as I explained today, there are all kinds of doctorates when you feel a borderline point when this is happening to you. I'm proving to you that this border point has already happened and that we're going to get less. First, people decide, the ones in the lower layer, for substitutes, so they buy the lower quality in the same kind and so on. So where are the reserves? Look, people of God, the 13% exhaustion of European funds, you don't know, you can't, I don't know what to say, I won't be insulting again today, because today every argument is already an hate speech. If you and your colleague share 5G networks for which you could pick up more, there is also a difference here. If the second track, Mr Dragonja, costs twice as much as it costs and we have relatively few European funds for it, then this 600 million is so, then of course we can go to a number of institutions. Cerara's government has only employed 10,000 people in the public sector in the last year and a half. At the time of the fourth industrial revolution, when bureaucrats disappear from the public sector, typical middle bureaucrats, the ministry of Koprivnik increased employment by 94%. Here are the spares. All of these things that we have explained today have once been felt. We've already lost one country. We had a 36% tax back then, we had, say, taxes, I remember, cars: up to a thousand 600 cubic meters - 96%, between a thousand 600 and 2,000 cubic meters - about 147%, over 2,000 cubic meters was 198%. And everything else. Look, we'll be back in Trieste, Ponterosso will live, Gradec will live. The groups used to sing: Shopping and Graz. This piece will celebrate again. It's this thing, this path of pressure into poverty. And there will be a new crisis and we will be without reservations, the castes will be empty, except for, as the most beautiful Slovene woman once said, after all, the most photogenic woman in 1983, Mrs Bernarda Marolt. [[…]] She said that in Slovenia there is red bureaucracy, for their yachts stationed in Croatia, because in Slovenia they will not pay for it, and for their depraved lives, the richest, paid state officials who are no longer on Friday because they are taking to the sea because entrepreneurs cannot get them. People with modest income in Slovenia will have to pay two levels of increased tax. This will happen until the point where we turn off the lights in Slovenia and we will have to start again, again in another republic, in another country, I hope that we will remain at least a little sovereign at the time. So much for the VAT point. I will see you at the future points where we will open our programmes, where we will show what we can do, and where we will show where it is possible to rationalise. It is a pity that now there is not a colleague of Jelka Godec to show you where other points are in the public health system, 100 million were stolen only on veins in the so-called public health system; according to the principle of Zemlařič and Miklavčič, etc. Look, here are those reserves. It is clear to you now where the reserves are, start on these reserves and VAT can be reduced to 15%, not 19%. That's the whole story. Goodbye. Good night!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec has the following word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u142	Thanks again for saying that. The key difference between what we are advocating in this bill is that we want to keep all citizens more; and that we will also allow wider and greater consumption by reducing VAT on both sides, on the side of purchasing power and on this individual's income work. And you advocate that more taxes are collected only by increasing, that the country then has instruments through which those who do not have enough are allowed to survive and thus, of course, control the whole story. I think that's wrong. In the data provided by the Secretary of State, we also see that these revenues are actually significantly more than we have somehow estimated. Some of you talk about comprehensive tax restructuring all the time. We have listened to this in the previous term as well as in the previous mandate, but nothing has been done, no one has made any concrete solution. I was very pleased to hear Mr Draganjo, who, through his argument, found that most of the work I had warned him about had not even been evaluated. The part of the public sector and all other sub-structures in the country that pays VAT as the final user and which also reduces the burden on it, thus reducing the burden also through transfers given by the State to individual entities, is not valued. That was well said. This step you want to make one big story and one big number is not real. Therefore, I am convinced that in view of your debate, where you have all found that this linear tax actually strikes the most those who are less wealthy or who are worse off in terms of income; and if we reduce this tax, the actual situation is improving there. On the other hand, on the other hand, you immediately said - the revenue in tax registers is falling to the level of the country. In view of the explanation given by the Secretary of State, where these measures have not been looked at from all over the palette, one would expect you to support this first reading through your discussions and to in fact clear up what is the truth about how much revenue will be less in the budget, or whether it will be less in the budget at all. As each cost given by the end user will be reduced by 2%, each service, each investment. The final users are those supplied by the state budget. The government has not yet done this calculation. And that's an important part that no one has made clear in this story. We don't have a number either, we don't have a look at everything, but I've only warned you about two segments. Only in local communities where they negotiate to slightly raise the average. On the other hand, if we reduce their VAT, significantly more investments will be able to be made in the existing budget and so on. The same applies to all potential recipients of funds from the state budget, such as schools and health care, in many ways, not to say the military and the police. All are reduced by 2 % in the cost work because no one is charging taxes like those economic operators with input and exit taxes. There are a lot of reserves here, and so on and so on – there will be too little revenue in the budget; on the other hand, we agree that this tax actually makes it possible for those with lower incomes to live a better life; I think it is not right. I hope that you will support this first reading and that we will continue to clarify these things that we have not yet achieved.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u144	Thank you very much, very good-bye to everyone! I must immediately say that this is already the fourth identical proposal of the same law by the proposer in the last two years. [[advertising from the hall]] If you don't mind; thank you very much. After reviewing this law, I was also somewhat disappointed because the applicant refers to Ireland, Spain, France, Italy, Luxembourg; but there is no reference to Hungary. For my part, I also understand why, because Hungary has 5% and 18% of reduced tax rates and, basically, 27%, so that you are certainly here, at least in this case, Hungary cannot be taken as an example. I have tried to understand some other things, and I have also had some problems, namely the view of the development of tax policy in the SDS over the last 15 years is quite pervasive if I use this term. The proposal to introduce two tax rates followed in 2006; in 2007 there was a reflection on the increase of both rates to 9 and 21%; in 2012 there was a reflection on the transfer of certain goods and services from 8.5% of the tax to 20% of the rate. In 2017 and today we are talking about the introduction of the third stage. Most interestingly, even reflections on the introduction of a single tax rate took place during the 2004-2008 mandate, which means that all services and all goods would be taxed at a 20% VAT rate. As an argument for this measure, it has been stated that if we combine all to one, not three tax rates: reduction of administrative obligations or burden; increasing legal certainty; increased neutrality of taxation; and easier tax control. Which means that if we go to three tax levels now, we have achieved exactly the opposite effect of all of these arguments that I have now mentioned, which is, in turn, a little difficult to understand. Please state that the reduction in the general and the reduction in the tax rate will contribute to higher consumption and will increase from other taxes, however, so that this loss will somehow be balanced or corrected. Although the bill is short, there is nothing wrong with it, but I think it is substantively undefined or incomplete in particular because it was not accompanied by any analysis, there is no study that would precisely prove this – where we make up for this failure again. You didn't put that in, and I was wondering if you had this study. Is there something like that? Because I hope that you have it or hide it, because, otherwise, all this debate today is a kind of talk of thought or feeling, which, given the amount of this measure – that is, the effect of this measure, almost 600 million euros – is not quite right. The second dilemma I have is to ensure that this reduction in the tax rate does not translate into some increase in margins. How can it be achieved that traders, intermediaries in trading chains, suppliers or other service providers will not be able to do so? Because it's a lot of things, even when we're talking about food, for very small repairs, which are quickly disintegrating in some way. No one in a free market situation can force someone on the market to lower this price; but this is a matter of some market legality, market dynamics. It seems to me that today's debate is a manifestation of one of the forms of populism that we can call tax populism. I think if at the beginning of today's debate we skipped and went straight to the vote, it wouldn't hurt because it doesn't bring anything new. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u146	Honourable Chairman and other present! At the Alenka Bratušek Party, my predecessors in 2014 adopted a number of anti-crisis measures that ensured the smooth financing of the country. They provided funding for health care, education and firefighting. These measures also included raising VAT by 2 percentage points. The measures adopted at that time were not because we would have faded, but that we could fulfil the obligations of the State. And indeed, we have paid for a drink, a drink of the former governments: and indeed, our heads have ache, and not of eating, but even less of drinking. At that time, the measures were taken on the basis of careful calculations, as planned. This is not the case with today's SDS proposal. That is why I will not support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The last one has the floor, Mr Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u148	Thank you again, Madam President. I'm sure we've completely lost orientation today. We have started very substantively, and now in the end this has crossed every line and has actually become just another form of political propaganda. Left fell, socialism fell out, past sins fell out, China fell out, I don't think Venezuela has heard yet, but I'm not sure it was probably mentioned. At the end of the day, it was the turn of the migrants, who were somehow guilty of all our sins. No; for our sins, as I said yesterday on the Committee on Home Affairs, we are solely responsible here in the last 30 years. There was nothing to weigh when weighing the arguments. On the one hand, predictions and assumptions, and on the other, harsh reality. We have heard that by regulating new value added tax rates it would be easier to buy cars, houses. That's ridiculous. Most people can't afford this moment in Slovenia. And that's degutant. We're talking about houses and cars, and people don't have bread. And there's one more thing. If we were to really lower the tax rate, according to my simple calculations, which were very banalised, someone with a minimum wage per month would save 13 euros; and from these, they would have to pay 2.6 euros of new VAT if they had bought something else. It's a small-number economy. This would actually be known in the pocket of one with a minimum wage; more would be known in those who have more. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, that's right, then I can show you how I got that number. That's totally untasting. And one more thing, we mix two ideas. The public sector and consumers are the ones most paying VAT. Companies are in the VAT system and there is no greater impact on their VAT operations. This is where you'll probably be yelling that that's not true. Aid to the weakest is to regulate the situation so that employers can follow the labour market. Now there is demand for workers and wages are not rising, so we will probably have to standard them in this house or in the government. So help to the weakest is minimum wage, is social assistance to those who cannot work; of course, there is a requirement for a better system of control for those who abuse this instrument, here I fully agree; there is an increase in the percentage of pensions, there is a system-wide arrangement of pensions that people can actually buy at this tax rate or at a lower rate, and it is not so important. If you can buy something, then you can pay the tax, but if you can't, you can't. That way I will vote absolutely, sovereignly and responsibly against it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u149	Thank you very much. In the absence of the remaining panellists, I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, in 15 minutes in the framework of the vote. I'm breaking up with this. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I have warned you before, Mr President, I have also read publicly that you will have to report to the debate as well as the others. You didn't do it, and unfortunately I can't give you a word. [[advertising from the hall]] We should sign up like everyone else, press a button. Unfortunately, the rules are the same. I hereby adjourn this agenda item and the 11th extraordinary session, which will be resumed by the vote at 19.15 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 18.58 and resumed at 19.16.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u150	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue our adjourned meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act is suitable for further consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin our vote. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 47. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. With this, honourable Members, we conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 2. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the discharge of a member and the appointment of members of the Board of the Energy Agency. The proposal was submitted by the Government for consideration in the assembly. He wants the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure mag. Bojan Kumer's word for further explanation of the proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Dr. Tomaž Žagar is a member of the Board of the Energy Agency. 6. 2017 notification of the modification of the employer and submission of a withdrawal statement from the seat of a member of the Council as a member of the Board of the Agency may not be employed by the energy operator in accordance with Article 393 of the Energy Act. Following the selection procedure for the appointment of an alternate member of the Board of the Agency, led by the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Government submitted material to the National Assembly on the basis of which the National Assembly is 23. 1. 2018 adopted a decision on the discharge of Dr Tomaž Žagar from the seat of Council member of the Energy Agency. At the same time, he informed the Government that the proposed candidate for a member of the Council had not received a sufficient number of votes from Members and Members. The Ministry of Infrastructure subsequently issued a new call in the Official Journal of February 2018 to collect proposals for candidates for members of the Board of the Agency. Five applications were received in due time, of which three candidates met the conditions required. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 5. 2018, Mr Andrej Knupež also presented a statement of resignation from the post of member of the Board of the Agency. On the basis of a call issued by the Ministry in the Official Journal of June 2018, two candidates applied in due time for the call. They both met the conditions. The Government has drawn up a common list of candidates from both procedures from among the candidates who met the conditions. We propose to the National Assembly that Mr Andrej Knupež be dismissed from office as a member of the Agency's Council and appoint Mr Mitja Breznik for the remainder of his term of office. However, for the remainder of the term of office of the already dissolved member of the Council, we propose to appoint Mr Mirko Horvat. Mr Breznik is a university-graduate lawyer with a state legal exam. In his work so far, he has gained a number of expertise in various fields of energy, especially in the field of electricity distribution. It also has experience in the energy and electricity sector. He was a longtime member of the Economic Interest Association, the Legal and General Affairs Group, and the safety and health of all distributions of electricity in Slovenia. He participates in expert seminars and conferences and publishes professional contributions in the field of energy, and he is also the author of a very professional paper on legislation and regulation. We believe that Mr Breznik, given the experience described, will carry out his work in the world of the Agency in a professional and proactive manner. And a few more words about Mr. Horvath, who is a graduate electrical engineering engineer and a master of science in management and has been building up knowledge in the economy. In an energy-intensive company, he served as the head of the electricity sector and was also the director of projects for efficient energy use, where he designed energy policy, strategic objectives and planned and implemented energy efficiency measures. As head of energy, he was responsible for the procurement of electricity and natural gas, the production of energy and energy, and the efficient use of electricity. As a representative of the Slovenian paper industry, however, a member of the Committee on Energy and Environmental Change in Brussels and a member of the Energy Group in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia has long experience in the field of energy, so in the Government we estimate that he will perform the function competently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u152	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. The proposal also addressed the Mandate-Volution Commission as the parent working body. Mr Ivan Hršak, President of the Commission, would like to speak to you about the presentation of the report? He doesn't want to. Thank you. Would any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups like to make a statement? No, no, no. Thank you. Does he want the word of an MP or an MP? I guess not. Before we go to the vote, honourable Members, I should like to point out that, in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Election Commission on the proposals of the Government, the State Assembly will decide separately, first of all, on the discharge of the member of the Energy Agency's Board, Andrei Knupež, and on the appointment of Mitja Breznik as a member of the Council of the Energy Agency for the remainder of the term of office as a member of the discharge. If the decision on the discharge of a member of the Energy Agency of Mr Andrej Knuplež is not adopted, the proposal for a decision on the appointment of Mr Mitja Breznik as a member of the Energy Agency will become irrelevant. The National Assembly will then decide on the appointment of Mr Mirk Horvat as a member of the Energy Agency Council for the remainder of the term of office of that member, who has already been dissolved by the National Assembly at its meeting on 23 January 2018. With this, with respect and respect, we first move on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to resolve a member of Mr Knupljez in the Energy Agency's world. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 3. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are now voting on a proposal for a decision appointing Mr Mitja Breznik as a member of the Energy Agency Board for the remainder of the term of office of a six-year term. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 21. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that this decision has also been adopted. Members and Members of Parliament, we are still taking a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Mr Mirko Horvat as a member of the Energy Agency's Board for the remainder of the term of office of a six-year term by a decision appointing the President and members of the Board of the Energy Agency. We're voting. 71 Members and Members were present and 61 votes in favour, 1 against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the discharge and appointment of members of the Management Board of the Prešeren Fund. The proposal was tabled by the Government. Does the representative of the Government want a word in order to further explain the proposal? Secretary of State, Mr. Jan Škoberne, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Since Mrs Mojca Kranjc and Mrs Milena Zupančič resigned from the Management Board of the Prešeren Fund for personal reasons, the Government proposed to replace the two members on the proposal of the Ministry of Culture, which, on the basis of a public call and on the basis of proposals received by the Association of Slovenian Literature Translators and the Association of Dramatic Artists to complete the administrative committee, proposed mag. Dušanko Zabukovec and Mr Branko Šturbei. It is important, therefore, that both persons be perfected in the order from which the previous members of the Management Board came, in order to ensure equal representation of all areas of art. Since this is a distinguished translator and reputable professor of drama, I believe that there is no need for any specific additional explanation, so I kindly ask for confirmation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u154	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. The proposal was treated by the Mandate-Election Commission as a parent working body. Does the chairman of the commission want a word? You don't want to. Would any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups like a word? No, no, no. Would any of the Members or Members like a word? I guess not. This concludes the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to discharge Mrs Mojca Kranjc and Mrs Milena Zupančič in the Administrative Committee of the Prešeren Fund of Duties of the Member States. For a member for the period until the end of the term of office of the Management Board appointed by Decision appointing the members of the Management Board of the Prešeren Fund of 12. Seven. 2016, and they are called Mr Branko Sturbej and Mag. Dušanka Zabukovec. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 18. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 18.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving to the proposal for appointment to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the appointment of Mr Sam Puppis as Judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal was treated by the Mandate-Election Commission as a parent working body. Does the president want a word? No, no, no. Thank you. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? I'm guessing he's not here. She's late, and I assume you have no right to speak, but you can have an explanation at the end of your application. [[…]] Do you want the word of the Member and Members? No, no, no. This concludes the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Mr. Samo Puppis to the Supreme Court of Justice in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. I would therefore like to point out that it is not kind for him to be late for the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 2]] I therefore note that the decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the proposals for election to the judicial function of the District Courts in the District Court in Ljubljana. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of the Magi. Ane pegan, mag. Valentine Omahen and Mrs Vite Vidic Damjanović are in judicial office at the District Court of Justice in Ljubljana. Does the Secretary-General of the Court of Justice, Mrs Maja Rozman, wish to give the floor to further explanation of the proposals? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u155	Your Honor, good afternoon!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u156	It won't be that easy. Please turn off the microphone and step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u157	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Actually, I can't even apologize for being late because I came as soon as you called me from the National Assembly. The District Court in Ljubljana, as one of the largest courts in the country, is constantly facing major human resources fluctuations. Recently, too, with the problem of generation gaps in the ranks of judges. Since 2013, for various reasons, the number of judges in this court has decreased significantly. The possibilities for redistribution of judges between different departments have been exhausted, the analysis of statistics on the work of this Court for the period 2013-2016 has shown that ensuring an effective part of the court requires staff reinforcement in types of judges. A total of 55 candidates and candidates applied for the specific invitation to tender, of which 15 candidates were invited to the oral hearing by the Council of Justice. Some of them are mags. Yes, Pegan, mag. Valentino Omahen and Vito Vidic Damjanović. All three candidates stood out of the other candidates with above-average reviews at the state law exam, with a Master's degree, candidate Ana Pegan has completed more than 13 years of work experience. She's a Magi candidate. Valentina Omahen has more than 16 years of work experience, of which ten years are in court. Since September 2010, Vita Vidic Damjanovič has been working and working as an expert at the Supreme Court in Ljubljana, where she has been assigned to the Civil Division and the Alternative Dispute Resolution Department; and she also has extensive work experience in the judiciary. For all three candidates, their superiors consider their work to be excellent. The Head of the Civil Division and the Department for Alternative Dispute Resolution of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana have pointed out that candidate Vita Vidic Damjanović is independent at work, demonstrating the ability to quickly identify essential legal and factual issues and the ability to reason. In her work, she is entrusted with the most challenging tasks because of her excellent abilities and rich knowledge. In exceptional quality work, however, it also deviates positively from the amount of work done. He is also an excellent judge of the work of the Magi. Valentine Omahen. It is located in the most difficult areas of work, working as a professional associate at the District Court in Ljubljana, and the work of this court is well known. For several years now, he has been running errands on his own in estate matters and is the head of professional associates. She's a Magi candidate. Ana Pegan is currently an expert member of the Economic Department of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In their opinions, the Head of Economics of the Supreme Court and the three Supreme and Two Senior Judges, who directly participated with it, highlighted the candidate's superior performance, excellent expertise, responsibility, self-initiativeism and accuracy at work. All three have also been supported by the President of the District Court in Ljubljana, who interviewed them; all three have also had excellent talks in the Council of Justice, so the Council of Justice proposes them for election to the National Assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-25-SDZ8-Izredna-11.ana.u158	Thank you for your position, Madam Secretary-General. The proposal was treated by the Mandate-Election Commission as a parent working body. Does the president want a word? You don't want to. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? No, no, no. Which of the Members or Members? No, no, no. We are moving first to a decision on the proposal for a decision, which elects mag to serve in the judicial capacity of the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. Ana Pegan. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 40 votes against 1. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. And we are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that will elect a mag to serve in the judicial function of the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. Valentina Omahen. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. And by doing so, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision which elects Mrs Vita Vidic Damjanovic as judge of the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We move on to the proposal for a decision appointing a deputy member of the State Election Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. President, would you like a word? No, no, no. Would any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups like a word? No, no, no. Would you like the word of a Member or Members? No, no, no. I'm guessing there's no debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Mr Iztok Majhenič to the State Election Commission as a member's deputy on a proposal from the parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We turn to the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. Would you like a word, Mr. President? You don't even want a word today? But I will insist to the end. Would any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups like a word? No, no, no. Does he want a word from any Member or Member of Parliament? No, no, no. This brings us to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling Mrs Andreja Zabret to the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia as a member. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving to the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. President, you have a chance to speak. You don't want to do it this time either. Would any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups like a word? No, no, no. Would you like a word from the Member of Parliament and Members? I'm guessing there's no wish to discuss it. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, by which a member of Mr Pavel Brglez will be resolved in the Supervisory Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Actually, we're out of points. The President of the Election Commission, you won't get to the floor. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 11th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Have a nice evening!
