ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin the 39th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Iva Dimic, Dr Dragan Matić, Dr. Franc Trček, Ivan Prelog, Jan Mahnič by 2 p.m., Ljubo Žnidar, Roberto Battelli, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, Franz Breznik and Mag. Matthew Tonin. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the Council to the 31st item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda for the 39th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday 12 March 2018, with the reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any motions for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda of the meeting. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda of the 39th meeting be extended by 1st item, this is by informing Dr Miroslav Cerar of his resignation from the office of President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for enlargement was received on Thursday 15. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate and move on to a decision. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 67 votes against and no one against. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The meeting will be held on Tuesday 20 March 2018 at 9 a.m. We are moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received with a reference and a follow-up. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 70 votes in favour and one against. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 39th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 29 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. With regard to this point, the Magi apologized for today. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar. You have the floor to question the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u2	Thank you for your word and a lovely greeting, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government. As announced, I will ask you a question about the projected use of €1.2 billion for NATO's weapons requirements. Your government is directly responsible for this. The NATO Defence Ministers confirmed NATO's objectives for Slovenia last June, with the creation of two battalion groups for which Slovenian citizens are expected to spend 1.2 billion euros by 2025, as a priority target for our country. My first question is: Where does the government draw legitimacy for such a decision? If I give you some comparisons. 1.2 billion euros is more than the budget of the Ministry of Health in the last eight years. 1.2 billion euros is more than a second track. 1.2 billion euros is the amount for which twelve paediatric clinics could be built. I am therefore interested in how the Government can make such a decision without consulting citizens with what legitimacy. Next, I'm interested in the purpose of this decision. Slovenia is not militarily threatened. I think that we agree, we are surrounded by EU Member States, we have more or less friendly relations with everyone, and there are no indications that this could change in the near future. That's why I want to know: What will these two battalion groups serve, which should not only invest €1.2 billion, but 2 000 100 soldiers to support these two groups? After all, it is a group that is mainly offensive. I'm curious, and my second question is: How will the group see to it how they will contribute to this country's defence? And the third question: Given that NATO's objectives have been adopted, but have not yet been translated into planning documents and the decision on new armoured personnel has been postponed to October, according to the new government, we have put forward an initiative in Levica for a consultative referendum on investment of €1.2 billion. As President of the Government, you have resigned, but you are still the president of the largest party in this reference to the National Assembly. That's why I want to know: Will you support the Left for the Consultative Referendum and thus give citizens the opportunity to make a decision at the referendum, which could be held on election day? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u3	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u4	Dear Member Luka Mesec, if I understand correctly, your party is also in principle in favour of leaving the Republic of Slovenia from NATO. Discussions are also going very often in this direction. Let me say that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, in fact, we are all committed to a referendum decision, which was also confirmed by the National Assembly years ago when the Slovenians spoke for joining NATO. This referendum decision and the decision of the highest representative body shall be binding. Let me stress that this decision to join NATO and thus to participate in the collective defence system has also been taken because it represents a lower total cost of financing our national defence. We know that if we had to bear all the costs ourselves, we would be higher and we would also be handicapped, because some of the capacities themselves could not be provided in this way as in combination with neighbouring NATO member countries and others in NATO membership. From this point of view, let me stress that all decisions based on strengthening our army as part of the NATO defence union are something that has all the legitimate and legal support of this respected body and of the people of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me also say that I do not agree with you that Slovenia is just so militarily unhazarded. That's what it always feels like right now. So a few years ago, we thought that security issues were, at least some thought so, all of a sudden, always solved and so on. We can see that security and defence are still important components of a nation and a country. Therefore, in the framework that I have said when we are a member of NATO, when we have to worry about the defence capacity of the state, we have first, as a responsible government, stopped the trend of falling funds for military purposes, and then increased them slightly in this mandate. Of course, we also take care of all other government programmes, social, health, education, science, culture and so on. It is true that the Government took note in 2016 of the conclusions of the 2016 Strategic Defence Review, which, among the main development objectives of ensuring national defence capabilities, envision the establishment of two medium-term battalion fighting groups. These were confirmed as two key capacities of the Republic of Slovenia in the NATO 2017 capacity packages in June 2017. The fact is that Slovenia cannot move forward as a NATO member, nor can it guarantee the protection of Slovenia and not the safety of its soldiers and soldiers if it does not have an appropriately modernised army. Therefore, Slovenia has to look forward in the long term. The Ministry has already drawn up a proposal for a medium-term defence programme for 2018-2023, which is ready for intersectoral coordination. And here we are, honourable Member and other Members and Members of Parliament! The matter has not been brought forward any longer than inter-sectoral coordination in the Government, so far the government has not made any definitive financial decisions on this issue. These will have to be very sober-minded, all together in public financial frameworks, which will continue to balance our Slovenian development, as we have put it this time in a positive direction. I would like to stress that from this point of view things will be considered. I am sure that there will also be debates in the competent committees of the National Assembly or beyond, so I do not doubt that both the Government and the National Assembly will continue to make this final decision when these decisions are taken, including the financial consequences, to act with care and not to cause our defence incompetence on the one hand – here we must be careful of our soldiers and soldiers and of all the Slovenians who are protected – while at the same time we must be careful that the state is also developing in other areas, that we care for socially disadvantaged groups, that we will continue to raise the quality of life and that it will be good for everyone, as I often say. As far as your referendum initiative is concerned, as it is now designed, I cannot support it for the time being, because the referendum issue is too precise and is still unclear and misleading in this regard. So I also allow the possibility of a referendum question on what to do in the future. This is a matter of great decisions, I agree, of which the people can also be asked. However, I believe, as I said, that the National Assembly and the Government will help in this context by making the right decision. If there is a need for a referendum, it will be evident in the future when these decisions are made more clearly. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u5	You have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u6	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. The President of the Government says that legitimacy derives from the referendum decision of citizens and citizens on NATO membership. Then I am directly interested in this, and my first question is: Did NATO threaten us that if we do not invest €1.2 billion in the equipment of the two battalion groups, we will be excluded from this relationship? Second of all, I'm curious again: Where did you get the legitimacy? I went to look at the pre-election promises of the Mir Cerar Party, now the modern center's parties. You've never talked about it in a pre-election show. You haven't told the citizens in advance. I went to look at the coalition agreement. There's no record of this investment happening. I went to see the SMC program. It doesn't say anywhere that you're going to spend 1.2 billion euros. I want to know: When and where did you promise this to the citizens and when did the citizens give you a mandate to do so? Next. You're saying we would have borne substantially higher defence costs ourselves if we didn't make that decision. Iceland is a member of NATO, and it doesn't even have its own army. All the multi-urban countries that are members of the NATO Federation spend significantly less on the inhabitants of the military than on the consumption of Slovenia. Austria is not a member of NATO and for the military it spends less than the consumption of Slovenia. So I'm wondering: Where did this claim come from? And the last time you say you don't agree that Slovenia is not under military threat. I want to know: Who, then, threatens it, and how should these two battalion groups contribute to the defense? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u7	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u8	Thank you very much. As I said, membership in NATO is a fact accepted by our government, just as everyone before us, after a decision at the referendum and at the National Assembly. It is clear that Slovenia is a member of NATO, as is a member of the European Union. And he has to respect these commitments. We contribute one of the lowest percentages of GDP among all members to NATO. This is also, in some ways, our challenge. I emphasize, one of the lowest amounts. Of course, in other segments, we have compensated this by the quality of our military training and participation in missions so far, but here is the fact that, and not so much as you said, other countries contribute less. On the contrary. Slovenia contributes very little compared to others. When we formed this government, honourable Member of the Moon, we could not have anticipated many things. We could not foresee a refugee wave, terrorist threats and attacks in our area, geostrategic conditions exacerbating crises near Europe, around Europe, nuclear threats to this world and so on. We are increasingly seeing that we are not immune to such threats in our immediate neighborhood. Therefore, honourable Member, it is important that the Government is responsible for the defence capacity of the state – not just our own – every government will have to do so – to ensure the safety of citizens and citizens as well. That is why we must make sure that the military is modernising. How much, in what way, must be properly cooperated here with experts and other stakeholders. Policy will make final decisions in a way that will be supported by the profession and will be financially sustainable at all. I assure you that I would not, and I have no intention now, as long as I act as President of the Government in the conduct of ongoing business and urgent matters, I have no intention not to weaken the ability of the military, nor with some irrational expenditure to weaken any other sphere in the country. So, don't worry, this government is not going to do anything you're worried about. But it is necessary to look ahead and the military has some legitimacy and must have some structures. On this, I believe, we will have many more discussions, to where and how we will have to modernise these structures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u9	Ambassador Luka Mesec, you have the floor for a procedural proposal for the National Assembly to hold a discussion on the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, one last time. As you may have understood, the Prime Minister has not answered my question, so I suggest we discuss them in the National Assembly. I asked him if he threatened Slovenia to exclude us if we didn't invest this 1.2 billion euros. I didn't get an answer for that. Secondly, I asked him what these two battalion groups would serve and how Slovenia was in security. He replied that we were not expecting a refugee wave, so I'm getting a question, and we're going to have the next refugee wave, if it's going to be with battalion groups. We did not expect terrorism, or we would use heavy armour against terrorism. Will the police fight against this? Did you not expect new nuclear threats or would the new armoured personnel help solve this problem or would you perhaps sign an agreement on nuclear disarmament signed by a number of countries at the initiative of Austria, but Slovenia is not, because it said again, we are committed to NATO membership? I think a thorough debate should be held on where we will invest €1.2 billion. The Prime Minister is misinformed about the cost of neighbouring countries or similar countries for the military. I'll just give you one comparison. Czech Republic and Slovenia. Slovenia spends $258 for the army per capita, Czech Republic $238. In the mirror, the Czech Republic spends 108 dollars for development and research per capita, and Slovenia spends 96. I think you can answer with this why the Czech Development Reaches us and where it will lead us, if we continue to save precisely in all the subsystems of the country, but there will never be any harm in giving us €1.2 billion for the military, beyond any mandate of citizens, beyond any consultation with them, beyond any agreement. I propose that we discuss this, and Levica insists on her request for a consultation referendum, and we hope that, after today's discussion, the Prime Minister, the President of the largest parties in this Parliament, will reconsider this investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u11	Ambassador Luka Mesec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 20 March 2018, in the framework of the votes. You have the floor to question the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u12	Dear Prime Minister, the mandate is over, the story is about to end, and this entire political boiler, which was already so hot due to the upcoming regular elections, has been added to the mosaic by you yourself when you resigned last week, gave your resignation and further warmed up this political atmosphere, otherwise a good pear move for you, but the election campaign has already begun. And if anything, it is very important that we take a good look at this mandate and ask ourselves what the new government is waiting for in the next term. Dear President of the Government, your term of office has been accompanied by economic growth for four years, a period of conjunctura, when the state also went through the actions of the previous governments during this period, we agree very well. The indicators are exceptional and Slovenia is today, as far as economic growth is concerned, a good economic tiger. But, Prime Minister, what do people have today from this brilliant economic growth? Wages are still low in the face of other countries of the European Union, pensions are still low, they are too low. I admire those pensioners, Mr President of the Government, who are capable of surviving with 400 euros in pension. The business environment is very slow, bitter. 8 thousand young people move out of the country every year looking for opportunities elsewhere, especially our health care. You'll say I have such coalition partners on my own account, Prime Minister of the Government, and you'll say four laws out of five have been passed. You know, there are four of them who don't benefit Slovenian health care. Dear Prime Minister, there have been no key changes to the future of this country, the people living in this country, in this mandate. This is how we find out in New Slovenia. And there are even more important challenges ahead of us, because if we look a little beyond the borders of Slovenia, we can figure out what period lies ahead. There are also severe shocks in international markets, and there is a trade war. In America, markets are already falling and what may be the result of a new economic and economic crisis. How is Slovenia prepared for this crucial period, for the period of the new economic and economic crisis? What were the measures taken by this government? And the esteemed Prime Minister of the Government, I'm interested in: What do you think are the key challenges facing Slovenia in this next period? Why did the Government not respond sufficiently to these challenges during this mandate when it was an excellent opportunity?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u13	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Vrtovac, you have raised such a broad question or so many questions that I will probably be able to answer only some, and this will require some further discussion. See, in 2014, the country was in crisis when we took over the government's leadership. Those many good practices from previous governments were not exactly what you think. We received a very poor budget, government property was not well done, public debt was rising, very high, employment was extremely high. In short, the situation was difficult. This does not mean that the previous governments have not done well, but they have taken some measures, but it was the move that we had to make at the time that we consolidated all these matters. Let me say it's not just about economic growth. I am pleased that we have been able to provide many citizens with more work, because the job is the one that makes a man the opportunity for the most decent life. Look, just for young people, if we take the data into account, we've practically halved unemployment in the last three years, out of about 34 thousand we've come to about 17,000 unemployed young people, which means that for those who, as you say, went abroad a lot, not just to study, even with the belly behind the bread, we've made more work at home. Let me make it very clear that virtually everyone, with a rare exception, in the mandate of our government, both in the economy and in the public administration, has received more, wages have risen everywhere, the standard has risen slightly, and poverty is slightly lower. We have also set pensions for those with a full working life at a minimum of EUR 500, which we have recently adopted, and this is very important. The minimum wage has increased and, nevertheless, the number of those receiving the minimum wage has decreased. In short, it's progress. This economic growth has also been exploited in this direction. At the same time, we had to repay the public debt in order to reduce it. By restructuring this debt, we have substantially reduced the interest, i.e. the amount of interest we have paid each year, and in this way the country is becoming a good host, we are also better managed by state assets. What was the key? To put the country back on a sound footing to address the causes of the crisis, we eliminate them, not the symptoms, and today we are all doing better in some way. But it's true, it doesn't work out for everyone as well as we'd like. I would also like it to be more for people in the economy, more for people in the public sector, more for pensioners. And we're working on it. That is why we have also coordinated pensions, and that is why there will be one more coordinated pension this year. They have once been, so the pensioners will also receive the entire regression this year, as they did last year, which was not before. The biggest challenges, however, are because I cannot afford a long, demographic challenge, which then covers many areas. Slovenia has a rapidly ageing population, we have a major challenge in this area and is therefore waiting for us in the future, especially in the future government, for a further key step towards pension reform. For all of these things we have prepared materials, prepared studies, and prepared statutes. The long-lived society strategy was adopted, the whole strategy until 2030. Then we have prepared a law on long-term care to a large extent, we are preparing for action in this area, but there will be a lot more to be done, because this demographic problem is very complex. In the health field, in a way, I always hear someone like that, I'll say, a little bit of irony about what we've done. Yes, it's true, we've passed four laws of five reformers. I believe in public health, and I believe that these laws, without underestimating private health, have also provided an important complement to public health, but with these laws we have significantly strengthened the efficiency of governance, public health management, reduced opportunities or prevented opportunities for certain negative practices, such as the non-transparent award of concessions in the past and also allowed us to cope more easily with the challenges of modern times. Unfortunately, however, we also had to settle past debts that our government has not caused. We only had to give up 136 million last year to pay off debts in health care institutions. That is why we have also put in place the Sanitation Administrations to now exercise control, and this is already being done over all critical public institutions to make it work better. And that, as we say, is a never-ending story. We're trying, they're trying in the next government, whoever it is, and that's something we need to understand. There will always be challenges and some we will face all the time, for this is a constant development. However, as we say, we have drawn the country out of the crisis, put it in the right direction, made progress, and built on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u15	Ambassador Jernej Vrtovec, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. You know, now that you're embarking on an electoral campaign, for the first time in your post as Prime Minister of the Government, one warning is that elections are not a Thanksgiving. But despite all that, Zuif 2012, the Prime Minister of the Government, was a very good traveller for your government as well. It's still in place to a large extent today. You also got the government in your hands when it was already economic growth, quite a percentage. So you've got the country in good shape. But the important thing is that you gave me only one challenge ahead of Slovenia. That saddens me, which is why you listed the demography. A real challenge, that's a big problem. The indicators are that in 10 years' time we will have problems filling the pension allowance, filling the health allowance, there will be fewer people in this country, there will be an increasing number of older people, there will be an increasing need for health care. And the payers in these two cash registers are getting smaller and smaller. As long as the economy goes well, there's no problem, and these two cash registers are full. But when the economy creaks up a little bit with the demographic indicators we have today, then there will be serious problems for the next government coalition. Dear Prime Minister, you also mentioned public debt. Public debt fell from 83 % to 78 % during this period. At the same time, I see another challenge, the well-respected President of the Government, namely the management of state property. Especially before the challenge is the New Ljubljana Bank – what and how? And the discussions are now under way. I don't know how effective these discussions are. I'm curious, Prime Minister. How do you view this challenge of the New Ljubljana Bank in the light of privatisation? Did the government know if you knew about the rubies that were happening from Croatia to the New Ljubljana Bank?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u17	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Too many questions again. With regard to NLB, the Government has been working very intensively on these matters for a long time. At the first corner, not only did we know, but we took a special position that nothing should be paid, because there is no legal basis for it. When I said demographic factor, it addresses social, health, retirement in general. There are a lot of these problems. I can't talk about these now. And these are the problems that every government will have because it's something that lasts. We've almost done our part. We've got a few months left, we won't stop at this time, we'll do it. Like I said, we're big. Zyf, you say, Zyf a good traveller. I cannot deny that Zuyf did not introduce certain measures that were necessary during the severe crisis. But Zujf also brought a very bad hour into our public sphere, among our employees. Today we are eliminating many negative, I would also say, the consequences of Zuyfa, and I believe that the consequences of the coming year will be resolved, especially those negative ones. Let me also mention that we are investing in this government mainly in the future. We have begun to increase the resources we invest in science. Earlier this may have been forgotten that we are not only investing in the military as someone wanted to insinuate, but we are investing in science, in infrastructure. As much as we have now built roads and railways in this mandate, we have not been in crisis for many years. That's important. Why? Because it has multiple effects. This gives us a multiplier factor. Our companies that build, deserve other companies that help, increase employment and so on. We attract quality, highlight quality, foreign investors in Slovenia, which is important again, because it is only by expanding the scope of our gross domestic product, as well as by developing our potentials. It was extremely important that we raised funds with great difficulty to complete the hydroelectric Brežica, because this is structurally long-term because it strengthens the ability of our economy, tourism, the local environment and employs our people in all these current issues. Then we continue to modernise in the field of digitisation, which is extremely important. We're modernizing society. We're gonna have to have smart places, smart villages, broadband networks. This is where we work with the Japanese, working with all the most developed. And remember, that we have moved from the dead point of the third development axis, that we have moved from the dead point of the second track, is all that will enable Slovenia to work, income, profits, and that we will then have something for social, health and so on. In doing so, we agree that further steps will have to be taken in the area of structural reforms. We are some, and some will have to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u19	Ambassador Jernej Vrtovec, you have the floor for a procedural proposal for the National Assembly to hold a discussion on the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u20	Thank you very much, President of the National Assembly. If anything, then the National Assembly is the place where we need to talk about the challenges facing the country in the future. For this reason, President of the Government, I see that we will be happy to meet here in this Chamber within 14 days of the adoption of this decision and to discuss these key challenges, in particular demographics, how to raise wages, how to reduce taxes, in particular the tax burden on salaries, how to better manage state assets and how to better prepare for a new crisis, President of the Government. All the alarms are ringing. Look what's happening on the other side of the Atlantic. You know, in a few months, this crisis can escalate. I would like to point out that we are very weakly prepared, as we were weakly prepared in 2008, and we were not ready for the crisis in Novi Slovenija during that period, but we were not ready for the crisis. Here you will bear a certain burden because I claim that in certain segments the country is completely unsustainable. It's a medical area. Once again, this situation is unsustainable. Otherwise, it has accumulated in all 20 years, but during this period, during your reign, things in the field of health have not even gotten any better, but certain things have worsened. Look at the waiting periods. They've doubled in this term, Prime Minister. They've doubled! Is that fair and fair? And we're all for public health. But at the very least, the kind of health care you've carried out in this mandate is to be socially weak. Those who have the money go to the private, and they pay. Those who are socially weak suffer the most because they cannot go to the private because they have no money. This period is a period of missed opportunities due to health care. In the area of tax reduction, tax relief is also a period of missed opportunity. In the area of public debt reduction, only 5 % fell public debt. What is our manoeuvre space for the period when new loans will have to be taken if we want to make these redundancies? I fear what the future of this country is if we do not come together and make some long-term strategic decisions. That is why I want this debate within 14 days in the National Assembly. Before the end of the term of office, we can do something concrete. We are very serious in New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u21	Ambassador Jernej Vrtovec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 20 March 2018, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Bojan Dobovšek, you have the floor to question the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u22	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, all those who accompany this meeting. I am asking the President of the Government a question regarding the Government's action to eliminate corruption. Given the health situation, according to the sentences, according to your resignation, we see that this team has not been able to create responses to the problems in the world, and even less to the challenges of the future that await us. That's why I want to know: What have you done in the area of eliminating corruption if we find that corruption in the broadest sense is at the highest level the problem of the development of Slovenia? We don't care about that low-level corruption. I'm specifically interested in: What have you done in the management of state property, what about health care, what about public procurement, what about the distribution of cultural resources, what about infrastructure and, of course, also in the area of purchasing pear services? If I only point out the second track infrastructure segment, we see that the most plastic operation of this government has been shown by the second track model. That's why I want to know: Who ever decided to do a model like this? How has the entire procurement and execution process been carried out? Why is the model retreating? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u23	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr Dobovšk, for the question. Let me first say that at the time of the government I run, we have reduced corruption and reduced corruption risks. This is also recognised by the European Union and the international institutions. Of course, this is once again the path that we must all walk together in order to continue this reduction. And this is also never a complete story, so it is important that we, in this government as well, strive to take a zero level of tolerance towards corruption and, wherever we see it, we recognize it, we act against it uncompromisingly. Even in the case of this unfortunate model that came along, let me say that I deeply regret the matter. The fact is that these models are being used today, I'm talking about that second track model in the European Union in all similar projects, such as Austria Brenner, Semmering, Koralmbahn. This is a well-established European investor practice. Unfortunately, however, there has been some mistake or perhaps even more, I hope not, at the level of the call for proposals. I'm not going to repeat what I think. I will only say that I immediately demand that the procedures be put in place, the procedures are already under way by the MJU, by the competent Ministry of Infrastructure, the external checks are here, and it is simply necessary to establish the responsibility, as soon as possible, who committed the act, who in this way wanted to strike a minor blow to this important project, which is otherwise going on in a transparent manner and must be so. That is why I will also closely monitor these matters to the end. Let me just say that the taxpayers weren't injured, that money hasn't been paid to anyone yet. It's been held up for once. Unfortunately, this issue of proper legal action on the part of the tenderers is also being verified, as there were some subsequent relationships there, but on this second occasion. I certainly expect a strong response to those responsible. As far as the fight against corruption is concerned. Let me write something down, because the question is again so that I can write it down for a while. Let's say justice. With the amendments to the Penal Code, we have tightened the penalties for corruption crimes against the economy, against the official duty and have more clearly defined the definition of the criminal offence of tax evasion, eliminated the limitation of time limits at a time when the convict is on the run, or if he avoids taking or paying the penalty, we have protected journalists in protecting their resources and introduced a criminal offence against creditors, etc. In the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, we have tightened the conditions for the postponement of the prison sentence for health reasons and limited the possibility of abuse of medical excuses. We know how much it's been in the past. These were abuses, so corruption, if you like, a lot. We have provided for an amendment to the State Prosecutor's Office Act, a legal basis for the establishment of a special department for procedures for the confiscation of assets of illegal origin by the Special Prosecutor's Office. We have thus far limited the overly open possibility of abuse of liability in personal bankruptcy and limited the possibility of concealing property in bankruptcy. In 2017, unlike in 2016, more than a third of less personal bankruptcys were initiated, and there were no more such abuses. We have strengthened the transparency of the functioning of the judiciary, the prosecution, the lawyer and the state's attorney. We have strengthened the transparency of the business environment by amending the rules of the Court Register and judicial auctions. The legislative process introduces a new law on integrity and the prevention of corruption, following also the OECD and GRECO recommendations, which is very important. In addition, the KPK government increased the budget to allow new jobs and upgrades of information equipment by €180,000 in 2018 and €140,000 in 2019. In short, we also invest in concrete terms. Let me say that, in this mandate, we have achieved the greatest human resources enhancement of the prosecution species since the independence of the Government. In 2015 alone, 30 new prosecutors and prosecutors swore, which was a 15% increase in the prosecutor's staff just to detect economic and other crime, which also affects corruption. We have improved the information system, we are implementing judicial education programmes for more efficient work, especially in those areas that also concern corruption. Bank crime. Access to data protected as bank secrecy is regulated, which is very important for the disclosure of corruption. For persons with a legal relationship with DUTB, we have established a declaration of duty by law. We have extended the outdated deadlines for corruption crimes from 10 to 20 years in order not to wear off and so on. That's a lot more. I'm running out of time. On occasion, you will be able to obtain more information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u25	Ambassador Bojan Dobovšek, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u26	Thank you. According to statistics and everything that's been said, it's more about actions on one level, on that criminal level. Other levels, financial level, compensation responsibility, personal responsibility, liability are more important. If I mention the cases and I want the answers here. Recruitment as the biggest problem in Slovenia: Why are persistent problems, untransparent, and also those people who do not meet formal conditions in the UKC? Then there's the staff at the cell hospital. Then the shooting in Luka Koper, even in HIT. What about the pyre projects? We see that in the time of this government, the operation of pyar agencies and employment has increased significantly. Just one case. Project Our Super Food, 3 million euros. What about the agencies that have the most anti-corruption measures at this financial level? We've got quite a few clues here. Insurance Agency, Competition Agency, Umar and others. Science cannot guide such agencies responsibly. What about the supervision of financial flows and the management of banks? What's bank supervision like? We see that the government has not been active in preventing corruption and bank recruitment. This was the so-called "rolling doors" because those who made the bank hole were called the supervisory or administrative functions. And here's the government responsible. What about the second track? I have warned you that the second track does not need law, does not need 2TKK and does not need Hungary as a partner. You appointed two secretaries of state to the key posts, who had to step down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u27	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u28	I can't answer so many questions and so many arguments, which even many absolutely don't. I can't answer in another two or how many minutes. Let me just say that with regard to personal responsibility, it is necessary to ask the competent ministries, and I do not have these statistics where the crimes, offences, other situations have been committed. I've told you what systemic measures we've taken. Of course, we also operate operationally, through the regulation of public calls, for example in the field of health, we introduce common public procurement and so on, and elsewhere. Throughout the public administration, we are trying to introduce a new culture to reduce these corruption risks and so on. Things are becoming more transparent. Don't hold on to what you're doing. It's not transparent or anything. Of course, it happens here and there that there are some, I would say, unsuccessful attempts at staffing, but I assure you, if we have ever seen in the Government that there has been something that has been disputed or even more, we have absolutely reacted, prevented or disposed of in the shortest possible time. I absolutely can't just land on some flatbeds to figure this out and that. Moreover, you cannot attribute everything to the Government, from Hit to Luke Koper, from UKC to everything. Of course, the government has certain abilities, but the government does not employ in companies, the government does not employ directly in institutions and so on. But it has some influence on it, and sometimes it doesn't even directly affect it. Therefore, it is necessary to correct and seek personal or institutional responsibility for each case, as appropriate. I repeat that this is how we work now. If we find out where the issues are at stake, we react through the competent institutions. You even mentioned the second track. I absolutely disagree with you. The Second Tier Act is still necessary. It's also because he's in charge of this project. Not like previous projects when they had no control, so the National Assembly adopted this law. And because it makes it easier to access European funds and because it allows for a more transparent project also through supervision, including by involving civil society control, while the project can be supervised by the KPK, the Court of Auditors, NGOs. This is just proof that this government I run is doing a completely different job with big projects. No State guarantees as in Teš 6, no untransparent practices, all went through the National Assembly to make the extensions clear. And this is the process that I want to see in the future, no matter who will lead the governments to improve this culture. Of course, there's something clear. Corruption will be, and what the state must always do is to prevent, restrict and, if it finds out, immediately with zero tolerance for action. We have worked very intensively on this whole mandate, so the results are also visible and observed abroad, not only with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u29	Ambassador Bojan Dobovšek, you have the floor for a procedural proposal for the State Assembly to hold a discussion on the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u30	Thank you. Of course, I would like to discuss all these problems that are ahead of us, because the government is putting problems, both health care and strategic infrastructure investments, the second track and everything else, to the bank hole, to arbitration, to the next government. As far as the second track is concerned, see if the control is carried out through the budget, then there is no additional need and the Government is responsible. By the time you went into the marriage, you did two things, one thing that didn't start the second track, we all wanted this to start, the minister said at the beginning that we didn't need it, then you deliberately missed the first tender deadline in the European Union, you need to prepare a financial framework and go to the European Union and get the money. See how much they got for example Croatians for their projects because they are active. We don't need the law for one reason either, so you've taken responsibility for the National Assembly. I warned the coalition partners at the time that by raising their hand for the marriage, they took responsibility – the government was thus relieved of its responsibilities – and also implemented the possibility of Croats entering. I have drawn your attention to the strategic interests of foreign countries: Italy, Austria, Hungary and others. You did not respond to this, clearly because in the security structure, in the Soviet Union, you did not take into account everything that the Soviet Union is doing to you, by enrolling in the Soviet Union to the highest positions. If I move on. What's the government doing? He's doing pianist rule and you're now trying to implement it into other areas. Therefore, this percentage of new pear agencies and projects. Just what I warned you, the second track model is exactly the same project. Instead of doing phase two, you used this tactic. This means that if we want Slovenia to be a successful country in the future, then we must take on these projects responsibly. And you, indemnity, because you haven't sued anyone for a bank hole for damages, even less in position, because these people are still in position, but you, as the Secretary of State already mentioned, and those who have not formally met the conditions, are now in the key cities of SDH, responsibility is also under the OECD norms in government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u31	Ambassador Bojan Dobovšek, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 20 March 2018, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Franz Jurša, you have the floor to question the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u32	President, thank you for your word. Mr. President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, it was very difficult for you and your client last week. It's obviously too heavy. However, all the pressures that have rallied upon you, according to our assessment, are the result of your decisions, which you have made on the basis of ministers and advisors, who have repeatedly given you, a hand-to-heart, wrong advice. Our parliamentary group, and also the party, have warned you of your mistakes. You've listened to us, I must say this, but you haven't heard from us many times. You did not hear when we advised you not to accede to and sign an agreement with the FIDES. We were aware that this opened Pandora's box. The trade union requirements you have been facing for the past few months have brought together all public sector unions. We have also warned you that irregularities in the pay system should be addressed through the full approach, and you have also heard this warning. By voting in the government, you have adopted a Decree on raising the salaries of directors of public institutions, which has further deepened the dissatisfaction of public sector unions. When you accumulate new and new problems, you choose the hardest way out and decide to step down. After your resignation, the government will be limited in its operations and will only carry out ongoing operations. Because of the government's functionality, you have abandoned the poorest groups of people, including employees in the public sector. Together with the pensioners, they have made the most of the transition from the crisis, but unfortunately these groups of citizens together do not feel positive developments in the country's good economic or financial situation. We must not forget the real sector, where a lot of workers are walking for a minimum wage, which is a few euros above the poverty threshold. The raise of the minimum wage has been repeatedly and repeatedly challenged by the right minister from your quota. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. President of the Government, in resignation: How will you ensure social peace during this transitional period until the elections?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u33	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u34	Thank you very much. First, a few facts show that this government and also the SMC’s leading party did not behave responsibly and with a sense of solidarity towards the lowest-paid. Let me repeat, everyone has received more in these three years, both in the real and public sectors. Of course, I would have given them even more if the country had so much. I am pleased, Mr Jurša, that you withdraw those statements that you sometimes make in our talks that you are only interested in pensioners. I'm glad you take care of others in Desus. Now I've heard it from you, and I hope it will be so in the future, not just when we're performing in public. In order to eliminate the anomalies in public sector employees’ salaries that were realised in 2017, wages increased by around 62,000 employees, totaling 36%, from 4% to 16%. Relatively the highest share of wage increases were received in the J-group. These are the professions of accompanying activities: cleaners, servers, janitors, administrators, laboratory ones, that are actually the most difficult ones. The same percentage also increased wages for employees up to 26 wage-earning classes in bearing activities and occupations, such as nurses, assistant educators and so on, as well as authorized officials such as soldiers, police officers, firefighters, customs officers, financial investigators, judicial officers and so on. The financial impact of the increase in salaries for these groups was €71.4 million, which was more than agreed with the unions to eliminate all anomalies. This mass did not include an increase in the salaries of doctors and directors. So it was done. During the term of office of this Government, the austerity measures have almost fully been released. Public sector wages have been growing more rapidly since the third year than in the private sector, with a rise of more than 10% over the government period. Many employees, including non-directors and doctors, also received an increase of 16% or even 20% for the same job. The claim that public servants do not feel the consequences of high economic growth in their salaries is, and is, not true. As I hope, however, that they can be given even more and I am very sorry, I am very sorry that the trade unions have not accepted a wide-ranging hand to agree on, because there was an agreement that was very much in front of these public sector people. Despite the last increase in the minimum wage from €805 to €843, the abolition of the anomalies in 2017 reduced the number of employees receiving the minimum wage by more than a thousand. These data and many others are also available on the website of the Ministry of Public Administration. With the unions we have talked, the dialogue has been a year, year after year, patient, even persistently during this last period. Yet their demands were absolutely too high. See, the union requirements were sometimes up to 30% higher. That was easy for five pay graders. That was too high. Next year, the last two measures of Zujfa, promotion and payment of regular work performance will cease to apply. Thus, public servants will progress even twice in 2019, some even three times. They're both worth 170 million. That's why we told the unions that they can't have both, that they can't meet all the strike requirements, and that they can release both austerity measures, because that would total a billion and 150 million. That's why we asked for some long-term distribution and some reasonable agreement. In the afternoon negotiations, the day that was destined, as it now appears, not only did the unions not take into account the Government's demands not to pay these 170 million in 2019, but the new demands for even higher salaries were made. Far from what we and my fellow Jew, Erjavci and the unions, we talked and pointed to a constructive agreement, although to the end of the abilities that the Government still has. And actually, the deal fell into the water. Even at the starting point, the government noted that differences with doctors were being eliminated and that these differences were also fully resolved. This was offered, and yet they wanted more. For primary and secondary teachers, they wanted 20% higher wages, which means that they would be paid better than doctors and better than professors at universities. Things went far and it was not possible to close negotiations at the time, despite my desire, and I believe that as soon as the new government is formed, we will have to approach a constructive agreement with the public sector to deal with these matters as is fair and right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u35	Ambassador Franz Jurša you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u36	Thank you. It is true that I have spoken more or less often in the interest of the pensioners. This is a logical issue, for example, because workers in the economy, in the public sector, have organised representatives, trade unions. In the case of pensioners, it is also a non-governmental organisation, but in some ways this party was established in the past with the aim of protecting the interests of pensioners who are more or less each government in some way thorny in the heel, mainly because the budget actually has to provide part of the funds for their pensions. But these workers, let's not forget, have earned their pensions. Do you remember the reaction to one of the coalition meetings when we talked about the abolition of the pensioners? I'm not gonna say you responded, but someone in that group got really upset and upset. And I think the pensioners deserve to get away with it. Doesn't it seem to you, Mr President, that we could make other moves that would raise your reputation in the electorate? We could invite all the ministers who have made the most trouble for you to resign. I mentioned one earlier about the area of the economy, and the other two I am mentioning this time. You are well aware that we have made our demands clear when both the Minister of Health and the Minister of Infrastructure is interpellationed. These requirements have not been or have not been met. You've taken responsibility for these ministers to do your tasks within a certain time frame that we've set as a condition. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u37	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u38	Dear Mr Jurša, I will not go into this debate about ministers, because I would be very interesting. I also believe you know why. The fact is, the government has done well as a whole. [[Laughing in the hall]] No, look, really. Of course, in every government there are problems with ministers, with the Prime Minister, with everyone, not least it is the legality of life. You work hard, you have problems, you work hard, you make mistakes, you fix things, and so on. That coalition had them, too. But there's something I have to say. True, you are one who strongly advocates for pensioners. But also SMC, as well as SD, we've been defending them all the time. We have to admit that. So here we were all their advocates, as well as other social groups, and you were striving for other social groups in distress. So it's important that we're right here. In addition, we know that no such positive decision could be taken in the interests of pensioners in the Government without the SMC, which has the majority of ministers. We have re-coordinated pensions for pensioners in 2016 and 2017, which was not possible in previous years due to the crisis. In addition to regular harmonisation this year, extraordinary harmonisation is also agreed on, which comes in April. This is a coalition decision for the benefit of pensioners, and the SMC has strongly supported it. The annual allowance was repaid to all pensioners in 2017 and will be paid in full in 2018. Those pensioners who have worked all the time will receive a monthly pension of at least EUR 500 from now on. It's also about this layer or whatever I say, which somehow, you're right, with the past work deserves proper, fair, fair treatment, we care, and elsewhere. In the area of social allowances, we reintroduced a children's allowance for families in the 7th and 8th income classes in 2018. Ninety-eight thousand children are again receiving 10% of the higher social allowance. So not only in wages and so on, promotions, the release of Zujf, the abolition of Zujf, even in the area of pensions, in the area of social protection, this government has done a lot. I think that we must accept this correctly, also in the context of what we have not been able to do. And this is exactly the challenge that we have in the future, and I believe that we have shown that we care about these people and that we will therefore continue with the public sector, if we have the opportunity, to negotiate in a constructive spirit, but so that it will be publicly sustainable. However, we cannot, with some measure at a moment's notice, undermine everything that we have been trying for several years to stop in the crisis, to be resistant to the future crisis as it has been said before. This government is still working hard to comply with fiscal rules and other mechanisms to prepare for the future crisis, so that now that we have something more, we save ourselves from making some structural changes to support the healthy parts of society, so that we can be more resilient. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u39	Ambassador Franz Jurša, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u40	What you spoke in the end, Mr President, I fully agree. But I cannot agree with the fact that we are all advocates of pensioners. If everyone were involved with the pensioners, we'd probably solve a lot more. But let's just leave it. There are enough laws tabled, more than 50 different laws tabled largely by SMC Members. Given that we still have a lot to do and that we have a short term, I will not suggest that this matter be dealt with at one of the next meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u41	Yes, but that's exactly why I gave my word, and you know very well that you abused the rules of procedure so that you could answer that. No, no, no. The reminders don't make any sense anymore. Just to find out, there was an abuse of the rules of procedure. [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, no. Then I'll have to start giving them to everyone. [[…]] I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. Thank you. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the question raised at the 35th meeting of the National Assembly. Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčič will answer Dr Vinko Gorenak's question regarding the trial of former Justice Minister Aleš Zalar and former Attorney General Zvonk Fischer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u42	Thank you very much for your words, distinguished president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u43	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u44	Dr. Gorenak is not in the hall. He missed me last time because I wasn't here. I'd be lying if I said I missed him today. However, his question concerns what I will do as Minister of Justice, in order to avoid judicial proceedings and to make the service in court more effective. Since this question was raised, this particular case has been concluded. I wouldn't have commented on it anyway. We know that, as Minister of Justice, after the first decision of the Administrative Court in accordance with my legal powers, I have also made a request to the Council of State Prosecutors to make a statement on this matter. Otherwise, just for a little while. One of the cases that significantly burden judicial proceedings in the Republic of Slovenia is certainly the inefficiency of the service and an extremely generous arrangement regarding the possibility of staying and apologizing from judicial proceedings. The CAP-N proposal, which failed in the National Assembly, of course the coalition was responsible for this responsibility, but it was also very important in the opposition, in particular Dr. Gorenak, when we wanted to regulate, for the first time in Slovenia, for the German model, a significantly more effective provision of participation in criminal proceedings following a German model, a reduction in the abuse of medical and other excuses, and a substantial improvement in the service, the effectiveness of the delivery of court letters, that it would not be, as often happens, particularly when we speak of individuals, dependent on the size or even the lack of a postal mailbox. In this mandate, we have therefore also missed an opportunity, with the help of Dr. Gorenak, which should not have been missed if the effectiveness of detecting persecution and judging were indeed concerned. But not us, because it allows us to be politicized every day. And when Dr. Fisher is on the wallpaper, Dr. Gorenak says, "There's someone else on the wallpaper." I am sorry, therefore, that the proposal was prepared, the Government accepted it and was not adopted in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u45	In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are moving on to the questions raised at the 38th meeting of the National Assembly. Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič will answer Luke Mesca's question about the irregular state of training and employment in education and education.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u46	Dear Presidents, Honourable Members and Members, dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me give a few answers to the question raised on the way in which employment, types of employment and also on the implementation of traineeships, as well as on the possibility of access to an expert examination, which also concerns questions from Mr Mesec. In 2016/17 and 2017/18 we worked in a systemised form, in line with the integrated resources and increasing number of children in schools, I am talking about school years, 2016/17 448 teachers and 2017/18 514 teachers. This is all in line with the norms and standards, and especially with us in the period until 2019, we can be happy, in the great growth of children and thus almost 20,000 new generations. This is a very happy information for all of us, and at the same time a great deal of concern that adequate staff are also being employed in schools. At the same time, we have also increased our employment in music schools, especially in institutions, namely educational institutions and institutions that care for children with special needs, which are slightly more than 120 teachers employed or other employees who ensure that the educational process and everything related to it is running in a high-quality way every day. So these are integral resources in line with the norms and standards and the systemisation of jobs, I could say that employment could be even more, but we have tried reasonably with schools and the environment to resolve the situation given the very different rate of growth of children in different generations in different urban or rural environments. In Slovenia, child growth is very different and some schools are under extreme pressure, while others are slightly lower. With regard to the employment of young teachers or those who already meet the conditions for this employment and the employment of assistant educators, you have indicated that no invitation to tender includes the employment of assistant educators. This is not true, in 2017 and 2018 we have already hired 157 assistant educators or assistant educators, according to European resources. However, these are resources that also relate to the age criterion, which is up to 29 years of age, which you are also asking, this is not Slovenian criteria, this is a general European criterion for the employment and promotion of youth employment. In this project, we have also hired 352 teachers together in the last two years, while we have already called for a new job right now, this is for an additional 114 jobs, as well as an additional 79 jobs for assistant teachers or assistant educators, so that we have only concluded almost 400 contracts of employment in the last two years, which also strongly bring schools in combination with different parts and tasks or areas that have been highlighted after the new Primary School and Commitments Act since 2013, this is an extended programme, this is an additional language and also the appropriateness of longer stays, where demand and needs are increasing. With regard to the professional examination, as you know, we have also in some way facilitated or broken down the conditions for obtaining access to the professional examination, as it is now taking into account 80 hours or 55 hours for professional workers, so-called direct, any direct activity in the previous period, either in the course of the study or in the course of other activities carried out by an individual for the purpose of education and education. Of course, this activity must also be properly evaluated, making it easier to pass to an expert examination and thus to obtain more quickly all the necessary entry conditions. Only quickly, what is important about this is that we allow young people as much access as possible, so also through European resources, but also through solutions, as far as possible, even through integrated resources.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u47	Member of the Port of the Moon, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u48	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to you too, Madam Minister. Actually, I have two questions. Regarding the distribution of funds, according to the provinces, territories, you say that you divide them differently according to the different concentration of the influx of pupils into primary schools. In fact, I have a question here. In the last call for employment in the field of education and education 2018, only 22.8% of the funds earmarked for the Eastern cohesion region and all the rest for the Western region were allocated. Is this because of this factor or is there anything else at work? That's the first question. Secondly, as far as the employment of young teachers is concerned, I am interested in: How will you help those who have gone beyond the age limit that the European Union assumes for 29 years? What about people who are properly educated but who are over 29 years of age and who therefore no longer qualify for this invitation to tender for employment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u49	Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u50	Thank you very much, chairman. Over the whole period of European funding we need to achieve the relationship between the Eastern and Western regions and we are also gradually approaching the 45 :55 ratio. The needs in the Eastern and Western regions have been shown differently at the outset, but they are now very similar as this call for proposals takes place every year. The numbers that I have told you are already the result of the continuation of this project and the annual employment. So that relationships also vary over the years, because there are also different needs in the individual current period according to the growth of children, which we are all very happy about, as I said. As far as the second question is concerned, over 29 years of age. We also have other projects that do not limit age, such as Popestrim School and also as regards systemisation, in accordance with the normative standards of employment, are carried out irrespective of the age of the individual applying for this job. Let me say that we, too, have already made arrangements in the area of ZOFVI for the administration of 20, 30, 40 %, because the work of an individual teacher within schools can also be combined. We have proposed an extension of that 20% part just so that accessibility will also be easier to reach employment either through projects or through integral resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u51	Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration, will answer Mrs Vesna Vervega's question about broadband infrastructure in the area of the pomurska, Podravska and Koroška statistical region.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u52	Thank you, President. Thank you, honourable Member, for this matter. Through the establishment of broadband infrastructure, we want to speed up economic growth and the development of the society as a whole. You know that we are always giving this a great deal of attention because we believe that open data and accessible communication are the basis for the development of all areas, of course also what we are talking about. Therefore, one of the national investment priorities of the development period up to 2020 is focused on this. The funds provided are from the European Regional Development Fund and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, which we combine in coverage. With the funds provided, the construction of broadband infrastructure will be co-financed on so-called white foxes throughout the Republic of Slovenia, including households in the pomurska, Podravska and Koroška statistical region. In doing so, we have made a so-called market interest test that we are actually earmarking these funds for co-financing only where it is absolutely necessary. All activities are carried out in accordance with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and this is where there is a minor time-lapse in view of the change in the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020, but the funds are provided, they will be invested for this specific purpose and there is no doubt about the implementation of the whole project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u53	Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnikar will answer Mr Simon Zajc's question regarding the requirements and reasons for obtaining a temporary residence permit in the Republic of Slovenia for foreigners.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u54	Thank you, President, for this opportunity as well. Let me just make it clear that administrative units are a separate body of the state administration. The administrative units shall carry out a number of administrative tasks directly assigned to them by the competent ministries, for internal affairs, work, environment and space, agriculture, infrastructure and so on. The Ministry responsible for the particular area carried out by the administrative unit shall fully define the formal framework, assign tasks and also monitor, monitor the work of administrative units. In this case, the Ministry of the Interior is responsible under system law for the preparation of regulations, the professional supervisory authority, the Ministry of the Interior also gives direct instructions to administrative units and the non-hope is also a second-degree appellate body. The procedure for obtaining a residence permit in the Republic of Slovenia is defined in the Foreigners Act and in the Regulation on the manner of granting a residence permit. The Ministry of the Interior shall be responsible for both the law and the law. So that I do not hope to judge the content of the procedure itself and to issue licences as Minister of Public Administration, but I am obliged to ensure that procedures are carried out within administrative units as prescribed. Unfortunately, I cannot explain more precisely, perhaps a colleague could have been asked why such a procedure is. However, administrative units shall carry out procedures as prescribed by the rules of the field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u55	He's finally going to be the Justice Minister. Goran Klemenčič answered the question of Luke Mesca regarding the exercise of the delegation of powers from social work centres to the courts.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Since most of the time and response has been spent the last time by colleague Anja Kopač, I will be very brief. The transfer of competences from social work centres to the courts in connection with the new Family Code certainly presents one of the biggest challenges and also responsibilities for the judiciary over the next two years. In your question, you have somehow questioned whether these implementations and preparations are going well. They may not run completely optimally in all segments, but they run with full steam, and I believe they're largely good. The Law on Unfair Procedure will now go to public hearing in a short time, and we will not stop it because the government has resigned. A special implementation group shall meet regularly. In the Centre for Justice Education, we have dedicated one of the priorities, type of education in 2018 and 2019. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u57	There'll be time. He'll ask again. Member of the Port of the Moon, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u58	Thank you. Obviously, we need more time to clear things up. But I'm just going to point out in advance the points that I'm most interested in. First of all, I want to know: What exactly is the implementation group doing? It is supposed to exist for one year, the law must be implemented in one year, says April 2019, but, at least that is the feedback of the courts, nothing has been done yet and the judges have not been given the sense that anything is being prepared. Secondly, the courts are interested in: Will you take care of the extra frame? The judges, as you know, are already overloaded, the judicial backlogs are great, how will you make sure that the personnel are in line with the new tasks? Information is coming from the Gorenj district court that thousands of 500 new cases in Gorenjska should fall on them alone, which is significantly more than your assumption that it would be 600 for the whole country. And last time: How will you handle additional clinical psychologists?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u59	Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčič, you have, I think, very little time for answers again, but let me try.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u60	Very fast. The fact that the Implementation Group is doing nothing can hold it because I know what it is doing because I'm getting their reports. Or it's all transferred to the last judge, but I don't know. Are we going to take care of the extra footage in court? I'm certainly not like the outgoing minister of justice. But if the new guy asks me if we need new judges, I'd tell them not to. Slovenia is another country in Europe after the number of judges per capita. Here the courts will have to unload some other powers, we have tried this with regard to the law on notariat, but this has not happened. However, we are aware that the matter is serious, they are also aware of it in the Supreme Court and are working on it. Under the line, if the judiciary thinks it will solve this by hiring 100 new judges in a country that already has the most judges in the Republic of Slovenia, I hope that the new Minister or Minister of Justice will not agree.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u61	Too bad this job won't be in a magnetogram. Ambassador Luka Mesec, you have the floor for a procedural proposal for the National Assembly to hold a discussion on the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. I propose that we discuss the transfer of competences from social work centres to the courts in the National Assembly. I'm worried about what this law will do in court. Both ministries, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, had foreseen that from this title, an additional 600 cases per year should be transferred from the social work centres to the courts. Data, the field feedback is significantly different Only in the Cranian District Court is there an additional thousand 500 cases, so that we already have severe backlogs in court. [[..]] With the Minister, when we exchanged views, I was given the feeling that there would be no additional employment, and the question is whether the courts have the capacity to assume these powers within one year. In view of the fact that there are some crises or deepening of the crisis of the judicial system we cannot afford, I suggest that we hold a debate in the National Assembly, as long as there is still time, on whether this transfer of competence is well drawn, whether it is meaningful and in what way and in what timeframes, we can at least carry it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u63	Ambassador Luka Mesec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on 20 March 2018 in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. The Magnificent Messenger. Branko Grimes, you have the floor to ask the Minister of the Interior, mag. Spring Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Most of the victims of illegal migrant flows were female. Remember only the taharrus gamea shamefully in Cologne for the New Year of Pre-Last. And the truth is a woman's sex. During that time, the truth also suffered a great deal in this story. It is therefore extremely important that we actually get to know the situation in which we live, such things as, without any political correctness, read: left-wing censorship, but with things, with problems in the right dimension, so that the right answers can be found. The international situation has changed considerably. Tomorrow, when the National Assembly takes note of Cerara's government's resignation, this will be a historic moment, ladies and gentlemen. This will be the last left government to officially fall on this part of the world. We've got everything on the right all around us. What does that mean for the subject I'm talking about? Austria predicts that it will deport some 10,000 illegal migrants, Italy predicts the extermination of as many as 600,000 illegal migrants. And you can believe that, especially on the Italian side, where it's smaller, they won't wait, they'll clap where the borders are open. It is important to be aware, however, that more and more migrants are coming from the south as well. The official information is that it increased by 3.73 times compared to the same period last year, at that time, the number of migrants intercepted by our police in an attempt to cross the border illegally. In doing so, I remind you that this winter has been, and is still, very long and very severe, which suggests that the current will be significantly strengthened. This is also confirmed by data from Croatian services. All of this means that it is still important how people are familiar with problems. During the last period, we had a whole bunch of cases of illegal migrants breaking into a house near the Croatian border, when in the middle of Ljubljana they were breaking into cars, when police officers were hunting them, and one of them even resisted the police force, and a whole bunch of them. Not to mention the attempted murder and everything else that's happened. In the minds of people, there is little of this struggle to inform them of this issue. That's why I'm asking the Minister: Which guidelines, legal acts, which are the grounds used by the police when they inform the public of crimes and of serious offences, in particular in the field of public order and peace committed by foreigners, in particular illegal migrants [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u65	Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u66	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Initially, I can say that there are no specific guidelines or guidelines to go in the direction of censorship, which you have somehow talked about in your implementation. We answer all questions, or we answer questions, or we answer questions, from all the media that address this issue. So there are no written or oral instructions to police units to limit or not to provide information on the offences or offences of migrants. In fact, it is the police's legal task, in accordance with the law on the organisation and work of the police, to inform the public of matters in its field of work, unless, of course, it harms the performance of police duties or the legitimate benefits of others. In fact, this shows that the police are also aware of the public's work and the openness of the organisation, because they also have the responsibility to reach the public with the highest possible information and notification of the performance of police duties. Finally, one of the tasks of the General Police Administration under the law is to provide information to state authorities and the public about the work of the police, the current security situation and the security situation in general. Of course, here we follow constitutional provisions, we know what the Constitution provides, including the presumption of innocence and any other provisions that come into force here, and the protection of personal data, criminal code, law on criminal procedure and all other provisions. So we keep the public informed of the security situation. Remember, even at the time of the greatest migratory pressure, we have also regularly informed the public at press conferences, because, last but not least, the Ministry of the Interior and the Police is responsible for ensuring security. And there was also a very clear message that despite nearly half a million people passing through our country, the security picture was in fact not distorted or the police were able to ensure that the security picture did not deteriorate. And there's no security image today. However, I can say that the police, in accordance with the law governing offences under the Criminal Procedure Act, are addressing all cases of violations of the law, and this will also be in the future. However, I can say that statistical records do not specifically record data on offences and crimes committed by migrants, but data are recorded on the basis of nationality.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u67	The Magnificent Messenger. Branko Grims, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u68	Look, there were quite a few cases when we actually learned by chance from the media, let's say I knew that there was a real hunt there, and not the only one, the illegal migrants who smuggled or smuggled them using means of transport. One of these wildest huntings was here in Ljubljana one night. With all this information, it is crucial to see who is really who. Then you can understand what's going on, who's doing something. Let each man be responsible for his own actions. Not to be the case, for example, as in the case of the murder of that unfortunate police officer at the southern border, where he was not some illegal migrant, but he was a migrant in the field of radical Islam who came to Germany a few years ago, committed murder, then he ended himself, but today, as far as I know, it was not officially reported what his name was. While in comparable cases, when it comes to the involvement of people from Slovenia, for Slovenian citizens, suddenly the name and surname of who did something appears in all media. This raises the question of these same criteria. And I am not asking without a basis, because we all know well that unfortunately even the European Commission or one of its committees has drawn up some guidelines that should not tell us who actually did something. So then people live in a fake play when they are told one part, but not the essential part, and then they have the wrong impression of who is responsible for it. That is also why this question is justified.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u69	Minister of the Interior, mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Let me re-emphasize the work of our ministry or the police. All the questions we get are answered. All the media who turn to us also get answers in accordance with the Media Act. This is, after all, our duty, and there is absolutely no reason not to. Of course, as I said, constitutional provisions shall be taken into account, the Law on Media, the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, the CAP, the KIC and other rules governing this area. When the police provide information, it is incumbent upon them to protect the personal data of all those involved in the event being dealt with by the police. When citing offenders or suspects of a criminal offence, information shall be made available to the public as widely as possible, e.g. age, place of residence or nationality, as the actual duty of the police is to protect the personal data of the injured, the victims, the perpetrators of crimes or offences and to prevent their identification. Of course, on the other hand, when we look at what the final result is, what is the final product that comes into the media, but here I agree that sometimes there is also the disclosure of personal data names, which unfortunately we do not have an impact.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u71	Ambassador Miha Kordiš, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, chairman. My question concerns two advisory companies with which the Ministry of Labour has concluded contracts for certain services which we believe are neither necessary nor necessary. It is said that activities belonging to the regular work of the Ministry or Government as a whole. The first case is the cooperation of the Ministry with A. T. Kearney Consulting, d.o.o., to implement project management services and communication strategy in the project of restructuring social work centres worth €350,000. The Ministry of Labour allocated a high amount of €350,000 to the external contractor to help reorganise social work centres. I want to know: How is it possible that a ministry, which has been under the control of the Social Democrats for many years now, does not have adequate staff for such a basic operation as the reorganisation of social work centres? How is it possible that an advisory firm with 10, 20 employees has such a staff, although the Ministry of Labour with its 300 employees is not able to carry out this reorganisation? Then why do we even have a ministry? I'd like you to explain to me exactly: What tasks can the Ministry not carry out in relation to this reorganisation alone, and why? What tasks have you entrusted to an external contractor because of your incompetence, and what exactly will this external contractor do for 340,000 euros instead of the ministry? Another example is the contract concluded by the Ministry of Labour with Grant Thornton Advisory, d. o. o. to prepare a formula for calculating minimum wage. For 60 pages of the document, it is said to be a poor diploma, you have paid 23,000 euros. For this money, a consultant is hired for one year at the 36th pay grade with a good thousand 700 euros a month's gross salary. I'd like to ask the Minister to explain to me two things: What is there in this document that the Ministry is not able to just prepare — after all, is it not exactly the Ministry’s staff to calculate what minimum wages could be? And also: What did we get for these 23,000 euros? Since you have not published the proposed formula for setting a new minimum wage anywhere, nor have you proposed it yourself, or can you then at least get us Members to know what formula has been proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u73	Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, Equal Opportunities, Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u74	Thank you, Mr President, for your word. Thank you for asking. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons shall meet on 27. 6. 2017 Upon consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Minimum Wages, submitted by the Group of Members and Members, with the first-signed Luke Mesec, to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption, adopted a decision proposing that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: 9. 2017, in the dialogue with the social partners, prepare a proposal for a formula for calculating minimum wage to ensure that minimum living costs are taken into account when determining the amount of minimum wage and relevant labour market indicators to contribute to the appropriate minimum wage levels and greater predictability in the annual coordination of minimum wage. In this context, the basis is that the net amount of the minimum wage cannot be lower than the amount of the cost of living increased by an annual increase in the cost of living as determined in conjunction with Article 8 of the Social Security Benefits Act. For the purpose of implementing the decision of the Committee, the Ministry carried out a public contract which carried out an analysis which, for the first time, aims to prepare a proposal for ways to take account of individual economic indicators, economic growth, employment, productivity and other social indicators, minimum income in determining or coordinating the level of minimum wage in the relevant EU Member States where minimum wages are legally fixed. Another time. To prepare a proposal for indicators referred to in Article 3 of the Minimum Wage Act, which will be taken into account in Article 5 of the Minimum Wages Act when determining or coordinating the minimum wage on a case-by-case basis, and to identify the potential need for additional revised indicators. Third time. Prepare a proposal for a way, a formula for taking account of the share indicators or the impact of individual economic and social indicators on the determination of minimum wage coordination. Fourth time. When preparing the above proposals, ensure that indicators are taken into account over the medium term in order to avoid accidental fluctuations. Fifth. In preparing the above proposals, take into account that the net amount of the minimum wage may not be lower than the minimum cost of living increased by the annual increase in the cost of living as determined in conjunction with Article 8 of the Social Security Benefits Act. An analysis of the formula proposals was made by the selected entity in the context of a public procurement contract. 11. 2017 and is published on our website, where you also have all the results. As far as reorganisation is concerned. This is probably the largest ministry project in years. For the first time, we have joined the reorganisation of the network of existing centres for social work. At the same time, it is not only a change in the organisational structure, but we are implementing, in addition to informing or automatising all the annual decisions with the so-called introduction of automatic informational calculation and introducing for the first time into the system of powers programmes, this is social activation, so it is three interconnected projects for which we have decided to get help outside, in particular project management. Everything's within reach. However, 350 000 euros were not paid, but 181 000 249.65 euros were paid in 2017. When a person is selected, all the accounts and everything is checked accordingly and then payment is made on the basis of these invoices issued. That's it. I think it's been said in public many times that there's been a lot of writing about it, so these are facts, we have nothing to hide. I'm happy to help you. But if you want to, why, and maybe a little bit about deception, it's true that the Ministry has 300 people. Only, Ambassador Kordish, you know there are 200 of them at the Ministry of Labour, they're still at the inspectorate. You know exactly what the situation is, how we can do it with respect to the personnel plan, you know what our staff plan quotas are, and unfortunately it's not so simple that we can give the money to the employee. If that were possible, I would be happy to do so, but with the human resources plan adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we are limited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u75	Ambassador Miha Kordish, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, chairman. In fact, the Minister, apart from the Flossula, did not offer an answer to my question. My fundamental question is how the Ministry of Labour, which has been continuously controlled by the Social Democrats for many years, cannot, with a three-digit number of employees, just carry out basic operations such as the reorganisation of social work centres. It's a bare operational incompetence. So much more stressed if we listen to the Minister's response. A similar, less serious story is the proposal for a formula for calculating the minimum wage, where an advisory contract with an external contractor has been signed, weighs EUR 23 000 and more for these 60 pages of the document, which is really not usable, which is shorter than the average diploma. This is 400 euros on the side of a non-usable document. If the Ministry of Labour could peacefully turn to the Ministry of Finance, which has such a document in two days, it could turn to the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development and so on and so forth. It didn't do that. At the Ministry of Labour they themselves were unable to look at the minimum wage bill formula and prepare alternatives, despite their large number of employees, although they are essentially engaged, they did not turn to other public institutions, although they are able to help. No, they went looking for an outside contractor. And perhaps the minister knows that the company that ordered him to make the formula proposal was further outsourced to Incertus, d.o.o., owned by an economist, a regular professor at the Ljubljana Faculty of Economics, Mr. Aleš Ahčan. So this proposal was made by him. How, Madam Minister, do you assess the material you have received?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u77	Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u78	I'll be very short. I am very surprised that the Member is so insultingly referring to public servants employed at the Ministry of Labour. If you are already insulting me and the party I belong to, it is understandable, but in today's implementation, insult the employees that they are unable to do so, to carry out ordinary reorganisations. So that surprises me very much from your mouth. I don't have another comment on this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u79	Ambassador Miha Kordish, you have the floor for a procedural proposal for the National Assembly to hold a discussion on the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u80	Thank you. The story's next. We have the Ministry of Labour, which employs 300 people. These people deal with things like social work centres, social dialogue and so on. As part of their regular work cycle, they are more than able to prepare alternatives to how it will be calculated and raise, if you want, minimum wages in Slovenian society. They are also able to reorganise social work centres, especially if it is a flag project of the entire Ministry and Ministry of Anja Kopač Mrak. But that didn't happen. The Ministry has outsourced these tasks through advisory contracts to external contractors. The first contract was signed at an indicative value of EUR 340 000, and the second contract for this minimum wage document for a poor diplomat amounting to EUR 23 000, which is more than EUR 400 per page. And that would be a bad graduation assignment. All of this leads me to conclude that Mrs Anja Kopač Dark is not able to organise a ministry to perform these basic functions and carry out these projects within herself, but is not ready to do so. Why, for what purpose, overestimated advisory agreements are signed in our society, in our policy, we probably all know, I don't need to be particularly exposed here. Well, it wouldn't be worth going over the Ministry of Labour's operation with this motive. While it is obviously difficult in the Slovenian budget to find money to raise financial social assistance to help the poor, those who cannot help themselves can easily find hundreds of thousands of euros for friendly subcontractors. And I think this is worth more than a debate in this National Assembly because it is a witness to incapacity, inefficiency and the wrong priorities of the Ministry of Labour.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u81	Ambassador Miha Kordiš, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 20 March 2018, in the framework of the votes. I'd point out something, but we're so far away in this battle that it doesn't make sense. The Magnificent Messenger. Branislav Rajić, you have the floor to ask Minister of Culture Anton Persak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. We fight until the last day. Since 1998, the University Library of Maribor has been the owner and custodian of the personal library of General Rudolf Maistra. She is also an important and caring guardian of cultural heritage. And here it faces the challenge of declaring the Maistro Library a cultural monument of state importance, which, despite many years of efforts, has not yet been achieved. UKM submitted an application in 2014 with all the relevant documentation, but the Ministry of Culture did not complete the declaration procedure. Where, then, is the reason that this extraordinary cultural monument, which the personal library of General Rudolf Maister has certainly not yet gained the status of the cultural monument of national importance? UKM proudly protects, preserves and represents the personal library of one of the key personalities of Slovenian history 20. For centuries. The personal library of General Maistra, with its nearly 6,000 units, is available to experts and other public, and its exceptionalness is also reflected in the preservation of the original body of this collection. In 2014, UKM revived its unfinished efforts in 1959 to obtain this status from the Maister Library. In our year 2018, the European Year of Cultural Heritage, when we also celebrate the important anniversary of the North Border fights, would be in place for the Maistro Library to gain the status of cultural monument of national importance. This would give her the honor of recognizing her exceptionalness. The Master Library has an invaluable cultural significance for the Republic of Slovenia and a particular cultural value. This is seen in the understanding of historical processes, phenomena and their links with current culture and as a memory of Rudolph Maister's extraordinary personality. The library collected by Rudolf Maister shows the general's mental profile as a Slovenian patriot and can help us understand his decisive defence of Slovenian national territory at a crucial historical moment. So why hasn't it been confessed yet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u83	Minister of Culture, Mr Anton Peršak, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u84	A respected magus. Rajić, thank you very much for your question regarding the status of General Maistra's library. Let me get this straight. General Maistra's library has the status of a cultural monument. The Ministry of Culture, at the proposal of the University Library of Maribor on 19 November 2014 concerning the status of library material as a cultural monument of the library Rudolph Maistra with a decision, will not quote the figure, found that the collection of library materials by General Rudolph Maister, so-called Maister Library, has the status of a cultural monument. Article 5 of the Law on Librarianism provides that the library material which has the characteristics of a cultural monument under the law governing the protection of cultural heritage is a cultural monument directly under law. It does not need to be specifically declared by decree. In conjunction with Article 17 of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, the cultural monument is a library material or a collection of materials, which represents a significant achievement of creativity or a valuable contribution to cultural diversity, is an important part of life in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and its regions or an important source for understanding historical processes, phenomena and their links with current culture. The Ministry found that the Maistrov Library collection has an outstanding cultural significance and a particular cultural value as an important source for understanding historical processes, phenomena and their links with current culture and as a memory of Rudolph Maister's personality. The entire book legacy of General Maistra from the private book collection of the Maistrian Library, which includes, as you said, close to 6 pieces of material, has been owned by the UK since October 1998 by the heirs of General Rudolf Maistra. The library is kept in a suitable space, under special conditions and is available to library visitors and researchers. The master library as a whole has a cultural significance for the Republic of Slovenia and represents a particular cultural value. Accordingly, it has the status of a cultural monument directly under the law and does not need to be declared by decree. The decree is necessary in cases where the cultural monument needs to be specifically defined by the protection regime and how this monument should be handled. While in this case this is already defined by the law itself. In view of all of this, a finding decision does not require a specific decision, and this was also clarified by decision 6211-8/2014/6, or by Decision No 18. 8. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It must also be said that, as it is said, the status arising from the law itself, while the purpose of the decrees on the promulgation of cultural monuments is not to determine the importance of the monument, but to determine how to deal with it or how to protect it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u85	Mag. Rajić, you have the floor to request an explanation. Here you go, extra.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, it is true that the Ministry of Culture issued a finding and explained that there is no need for a special declaration for the Maastre Library because the collection is in an institution where this protection regime applies. Nevertheless, there are many of us who believe that the collection deserves state importance because it is exceptional in its content, the selection criteria by which Maister built it, and because it is a personal library of important personalities of the 20th century, whose actions are important to the identity of the nation. The Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage does not explicitly allow for a declaration, but it does not prohibit it. Personal libraries are rare and let them be preserved and promoted. This can be achieved by an act of proclamation. I have a catalogue of this library because there was information that the catalogue doesn't exist. So there is, and there can't be a reason not to. It is an extraordinary collection that would be given a place in the Slovenian space by granting the status of cultural monument. Neither does the announcement cause financial consequences, but it is of great symbolic significance. In fact, the collection is the only personal remains of General Maistra, a general whose strategic thinking has contributed to the fact that our country is one third larger and, if not more beautiful. Dear Mr. Minister, we are always happy to see you in Maribor, but you have the opportunity to make your decision and, on behalf of all of us, to worship the man for whom you, when you arrive in Maribor, and all of us do not have to buy an Austrian highway vignette at the end of Styria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u87	Minister Anton Peršak, you have the floor to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u88	What I can actually add to what I have said before is, first of all, that, according to the law, it is found by law that some library material is a national monument of national importance or national importance if it corresponds to the definition of cultural heritage as set out in Article 17 of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. Of course, it is one important difference – whether this material is important, as you point out, because of the person who chose this material, whether it is important because of the material itself, it is said whether medieval manuscripts are in this material, or the first printing, or as an example of Slovenian Protestant books and so on. It is said that their additional monumental value is determined on the basis of these additional characteristics. The Maistre Library is recognized as a cultural monument of State importance, so it is also specifically financed, the care and protection of this library by the state budget, but if we want to declare this library as a monument in the same way as we do in the case of the Brižin Monuments or some important castle or palace or some intangible cultural heritage from the Middle Ages, we should in fact change the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, because now such a decision would in some way constitute a violation of the law. The Ministry of Culture is convinced that the fact that a collection receives a status, as lawyers call it, ex-legislencies, on the basis of the law itself, does not diminish the importance of this fact. In fact, even more, the collections of this kind are supposed to be Prešernova, Maistrov, Cankar’s library, if they existed, if they were preserved or anything like that, they are already recognised in advance as values of national importance.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u89	Mr Daniel Krivec will put the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! The second track, we all probably agree, was presented as the largest project of this government, and this is also discussed by the Prime Minister of the Government, who resigned, spoke of this being a key project for the development of Slovenia, Luke Koper and our railway system, so I expect from the Minister, who is together with his State Secretary and not least the Government the custodian of this project, that, given that things are changing very quickly in this project, some, as it would be said, reserve scenarios are prepared, as in all cases. In a similar way, we have committed HSE in the case of Teš to prepare a script on the Teš 6 project itself, which is currently paying itself. Given that there are many new facts on the second track project, I expect the Minister to have an answer on how to proceed with this project. The fact is that it was probably at the level of the Ministry that the law that we adopted in the National Assembly, which was stopped at that time, could have fallen under a scenario, and in fact fell at the Supreme Court. In this case, I expect the Minister to have a strategy on how to move the situation forward. The fact is that if the law falls, there is no longer a company of 2TKK, so why are we paying two directors with a gross salary of around 8 000 euros if it was known that the matter is still very questionable and could, as a contract on preparatory works has been made, be put on cold by 2TKK until the law has been formally confirmed in some way. But here the wages are paid and all the works that 2TKK should be doing at the moment are carried out by the Republic of Slovenia's infrastructure company. For the preparatory work, the funds have been transferred, as well as for the model, which will also raise the question below. I ask Mr. Peter Gasperšič as the Minister of State and the most responsible for this project: What is the scenario of the second track project, which has now been described as the largest project of this government? Given that the conditions of the goods have changed substantially, I expect that the ministry in the drawer has a scenario B, which will save European funds and not least plant the first shovel for the start of the project as announced.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u91	Minister Gaszperšič, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u92	Thank you, President, for your word. A good greeting to all Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you, Ambassador Daniel Krivec, for asking the question. It has been said that the second track is the largest project of this government, and I am sure that the second track is the largest project of a few governments and some other governments for it. I think we can all agree on that. Accordingly, this government has addressed this project in an appropriate, responsible and priority manner. It was also said that things are changing very quickly, and I would say things are not changing at all, or they are changing very slowly. The Act on the second track was adopted and confirmed by the National Assembly, if I am not mistaken, last May, from then on we are in a position to be in a position when we cannot proceed with the matter as it was intended. First, we have this procedure with a referendum, then we have a request for a review or appeal before the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, which is now gradually unraveling. You're asking me about an alternative scenario. I did not have a miracle boy who could, in such a short time, prepare a responsible, serious alternative scenario that remains available in this mandate. I'll explain why it's not that simple. We have drawn up a scenario very carefully and responsibly in this mandate, which was then enshrined in the law and also presented responsiblely to the public at the referendum. The scenario allows the construction of a second track according to the concession principle, which means that we have a concessionaire, in which case the company 2TKK, which builds the company, is an investor, is financing and then in the concession period with the revenues that the law brings to it, also repays all the inputs. Therefore, the contributions made by the Republic of Slovenia, the contributions made by the participating countries and the contributions obtained by borrowing. Only non-refundable European funds need not be reimbursed. This means that after the concessional part of the construction at the end of the concession all these inputs are recovered and therefore the taxpayers have nothing to do with the cost of this construction. The cost of taxpayers is nothing. The company’s infrastructure is then discontinued, and the infrastructure is transferred to its own country. The alternative scenario you all expect from me would mean budgetary financing. I hope everyone who expects it and says it's a solution is aware of what it means. This is a commitment to this project from the budget, which means a direct increase in public debt, that is to say, direct decoupling of surplus funds from other investments and other measures financed by the budget, and last but not least, the already acquired European funds are being questioned. In short, this is not an alternative scenario for me and every responsible government, and I will not propose it either. I am sure that the arguments for the solution that we have proposed under the law say that taxpayers, voters and voters will also recognize them in the re-referendum and re-support the law, because the law is good, the law allows us to join the project immediately, and, as I said, it does not mean any cost to taxpayers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u93	Mr. Daniel Krivec, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u94	What would you say? We've listened to these stories before. At first you said that 2TKK is a condition for us to run for European funds, but it was not a condition. 2TKK was a condition for further and further matters which were later shown not to be necessary. Even though the law is not in force, you do certain preparatory work and not least have you called for a model that you would need when you were on the campaign, but not later. In your explanations, you are talking about the European Community's demand for this, so I am interested in whether it is indeed an EU requirement for the model to be prepared. In your invitation to tender, the model is a dynamic model that will allow for changes in the route and some parameters, it is said that you are misleading yourself at the time of the call. You're talking about the law on the table that we have 2TKK defined, and on the other hand you're talking about a dynamic model that will allow you to change the route and some things. This is in the works that were available in the media emphasis on the model itself. Most also wonder about the price of this model. 5 square meters, 133 thousand euros. The President of the Court of Auditors, Tomaž Vesel, said, quote: “I hope that what happened on the model will not happen on the real project.” It means "great" travels. You say one thing, the other is implemented in practice. That's why I asked if you had any serious back-up scenario, given that all the facts you've mentioned, life and practice have already been overtaken. Everything you said in the National Assembly, you later went through the actions and conclusions you took as a government minister, as a government in the application process, in the implementation of the project itself. You were talking about duality, no trace of the placement of this parallel track, which you talked about and provided to the citizens of this coastal work in the campaign. It doesn't feel like it anywhere, so I'm asking if you have a scenario, given the fact that the facts are known.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u95	Minister Gaszperšič, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u96	In the National Assembly, we have already given many words to the second track, even in public, and somehow he does not want to hear what we say. I'll do it again. The financial structure set out in the law was, last but not least, confirmed at the invitation to tender by the European Commission itself. I think that's a clear enough indicator that we've set things right. The project was excellently evaluated, the second most important European project following the point, just beyond the Danish tunnel between Denmark and Germany, for which, by the way, I can say, they also passed a law in Denmark. That's where they're going to build this tunnel according to the concession model. In short, it's the same financial model. This financial model is favourable to taxpayers. What are we doing in this interim period? Of course, we can still carry out certain activities on the financial resources available to the Directorate for the execution of preparatory works, so far it is possible to do things without investment, and real investment is necessary after we want to implement this financial structure on 2TKK. As far as the model is concerned, I can say that here, too, I regret that this mistake has occurred. It is difficult to judge the price of such a product. The case was so set up in the public contest. However, the contents are dynamic not to change at the time of the construction of the route, but to allow additional content to be displayed above, for which it will be necessary to present, at the time of construction, either certain geological profiles or capacities or any additional information. This is all very easy to add to multimedia. It's this idea, not so we can show new routes up, it's not. However, this model can easily show all the routes planned for the adoption of the State Spatial Plan, including the important added value of this model. Once again, this project is set to cost taxpayers at least, or after the construction, all the investments will be reimbursed and all the tax money will therefore be reimbursed from this project. This is this idea, the alternative scenario is therefore that taxpayers pay for the entire investment themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u97	Mrs Ludmila Novak will ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! Madam Minister, I addressed to you last April a written question concerning the dialysis centres in Slovenia, I received a written reply on 3 May last year and also from this reply and the table shows that the dialysis centres in Slovenia are not evenly distributed. If I show this picture from the Ledvica newspaper, then we see that in fact, Notranjska or Kočevsko, Ribnica and these congregations have very far access or access to the first dialysis center. Patients drive more than 50, 60 kilometers away, and if we know that such a path along many winding roads is very difficult even for a healthy person, not just for the patient, then we need to understand that patients in this area are very disadvantaged or in severe condition. Why am I referring to you again? Because people in this area, especially in the Ribnica, from Kočev, remind me of the problems they have. We also know that one concessionaire is responsible for the transport of dialysis and other outpatients, so some patients need to be treated for about 8 hours, by transportation, by waiting and by dialysis, and are also very tired or lose a lot of time on the way. That's why I'm asking you: Do you find this situation appropriate, satisfactory, as you stated in your written reply, or are you working hard, trying, or having any conversations to be treated equally by patients in this area? People in Kočevska, Ribniška, Osilnica, Loške Potok and where they are entitled to a decent treatment.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u99	Madam Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Member, the rest are present! Thank you for asking. Let me first tell you some specific information, how many dialysis patients we have in Slovenia and how we approach their treatment. A thousand 406 are of these dialysis patients, of which there are a thousand 336 on peritoneal dialysis, which can be performed at home, 70 patients. We also have 15 performers performing dialysis. We also have good predialysis in the management of patients in nephrological clinics throughout Slovenia, which greatly helps to reduce the number of new dialysis patients, which is of course very important. Nevertheless, we are also working to cure as many patients as possible by transplantation, because we know that this treatment has many advantages, that we change the transplant process completely and raise the quality of life, and if we finally look at the cost side, we can find that transplant treatment is much more beneficial. The cost of dialysis treatment is already paid by transplantation, including costs or transplantation costs. I am pleased that in 2014 there were 55, in 2015 64 such transplants, in 2016 42 and in 2017 55. With regard to your question, with the establishment of a dialysis centre in Ribnica or Kočev, the Ministry of Health received in 2011 the initiative of Mayor Ribnica of the Municipality of Ribnica to establish a dialysis centre in their place, so also in November 2011 a meeting was organised at the Ministry of Health with the then Minister of Health, Mr Dorijan Marusic. At that time, it was agreed that what we could find out from the minutes of this meeting was that the Ribnica Health House would arrange the premises and equipment and provide the appropriate staff to carry out the dialysis activity. Even then, the Ministry did not oppose the establishment of a dialysis centre in Ribnica, but unfortunately later it was found that in this part of Slovenia the dialysis patients were too few and that this centre would therefore be cost-effective and I assume that the establishment of this centre and the activities of the healthcare centre did not occur at home. I must say that, in my mandate, we have not received any new offers for the establishment of a dialysis centre, either in Ribnica or in Kočev. I can say that if it turns out that such a centre is really needed, that the number of dialysis patients in this area is so great that it would also mean quality acquisition for patients and from a cost point of view, me and the Ministry would certainly support the establishment of such a centre, and it should be said that the Ministry can help establish such a centre by means of assistance and co-financing, but of course it is a basic, primary task in the local community, which is the founder of the healthcare home. While we also use public calls to help this local level by co-financing equipment in particular, it is a basic initiative and initiative at the local community or health centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u101	Mrs. Ludmila Novak, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u102	Dear Madam Secretary! You were talking about Minister Dorian Marusich. We know that there were several ministers behind him, and in this publication of the Union of Associations of Kidney Patients I read that the Municipality of Kočevje wanted to talk to you, last June the mayor said that he was still waiting for the Ministry to respond. That's why I'm asking you: Have you talked to the Municipality of Kočevje or the Municipality of Ribnica since then? I know we have to look at money, we have to be rational, but according to my data, I got this data in this newspaper, and it's supposed to be 27 dialysis patients in the nomadic fishing area. It is true that they are also waiting for kidney transplants, which is of course better in the long term, but at this time they have to go to dialysis, and the country is paying a lot of money to concessionaires for transport, for example in Notranjska, where 40 patients were last year, 321 000 euros a year. For this money, I think a lot of renovations or preparations could be made to carry out dialysis. I know that private initiatives for public-private partnerships have also taken place, but unfortunately there has not been any realisation, but I also know that such a centre, which has 18 patients, operates in Kobarid, is said to work in a profitable manner. So I'm asking you if you've been talking lately about solving this problem, both with the Municipality of Ribnica and with the Municipality of Kočevje.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u103	Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u104	Unfortunately, as I have said, I have not recently received any initiatives from either local community or local community. If an application or desire is given, you would meet with me or with my secretaries, but it must be said that there must be a minimum number of patients in need of dialysis of these services in order to ensure better quality, lower burdens of these patients, but also some minimum cost condition. However, as I said, there is an initiative in the local community, in the healthcare community, because they still need to provide or find suitable facilities, and we can help with co-financing equipment. Once again, if such an initiative is now up to date and there are so many patients, it is possible to check, make a meeting, a calculation and see if it is appropriate and necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u105	Mrs. Ludmila Novak, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u106	Of course, I will demand that this be considered a special point. I've already said there are 27 such patients in the Kočev region alone. There's supposed to be 40 in the whole area of Notranjska. I took the data from this paper. Therefore, the patients are quite as much as I have already shown this map of Slovenia if the New City was not so widely written and, on the other hand, Sežana, then we actually see that there is a large white fox in the area of Notranjska. Roads aren't good enough to say that patients can be in the dialysis center fast. We know that this is a hilly area, not the best roads, for a long journey, and that these patients are actually entitled to better, more equal treatment. Therefore, patients, in addition to the problem of transport that is not cheap, are costing the country a great deal. According to my information, which I have been alerted to by those involved in these transports, the transport regulations are also quite loose, and many times patients have to wait a long time for all patients to come in order because they are more driven in the same vehicle at the same time, and the rules are too loose and control is questionable. For this reason, I believe that special treatment would be justified.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u107	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark. Mrs. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u108	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished Minister is here! Madam Minister, during your term of office, the decent and safe working conditions of employees, such work of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work in order to prevent the mass exploitation of employees and food-saving work, the decent survival of single mothers and those living in single-member households, public works that would enable self-employed workers to work have not been provided with decent minimum wage for employees, those who work hard and their families live in poverty. Nor has it taken care of decent social transfers. We know that with 297 or 332 euros you can't survive, especially if you're broke and you don't have any other income. Nor has it taken care of the decent pensions of pensioners and those who will retire in the future, and of the abolition of the deprivation of pensions and invalidity benefits due to past freezes. Let me mention the insufficient capacity in nursing homes, so families are forced to send their parents, grandparents, and grandparents to Croatian homes for the elderly, and it could still be listed. I want to know: Where were the obstacles to neglecting this most important area of social and work security and the pension system? We have repeatedly addressed the exploitation of employees in Parliament, and you have talked about the need for them to be even more flexible. We have pointed out the inefficiency of the human resources-supported Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work, and almost nothing has happened. We have also pointed out the inappropriate import of labour, which often works in almost slavery situations. All this was allowed. Your term of office is thus marked by the following information. In 2016, 280,000 of our citizens lived under the risk of poverty and 371 thousand of our citizens were socially excluded. Do you not think, Madam Minister, that we are a small nation, that we should afford the social exclusion of almost every fifth of our citizens? Of the 280,000 people living below the poverty line, 83,000 were also living below the poverty risk in 2017, of whom 57,000 were retired women and 26,000 were retired men. This is almost 17% of all pensioners. Despite high economic growth in 2017, poor pensioners were even more than a year earlier. Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u109	Minister Anja Kopač Dark, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Your Honor, thank you for asking. During my term of office, the situation in the labour market has changed significantly. When I took office, there were 125 thousand unemployed, and today it's an indication that 83 thousand 282 people are registered unemployed. Above all, we are now active at almost 850 thousand. Through our direct actions in the period 2014-2016, 73,000 young people have been employed, of which 26 000 are directly employed by the Ministry of Labour, which is more than one generation, because about 20,000 children are born generationally. Through active employment policy measures, as the European Commission has made very clear in the last report, we have improved the situation in the labour market. We earmarked €190 million for an active employment policy in 2017 and 2018. If you ask me about public works, we have included 34 000 400 long-term unemployed in the period 2013-2018 and allocated €182.9 million for public works. For the first time, we have granted deficit scholarships for young people in the labour market, we have provided a reform of student work, with which students on average receive 3 months of retirement per year, with guarantees for young people in the period 2016-2020 we have allocated 300 million euros, that is €60 million per year, for youth employment measures, with which they have also given those figures that I mentioned earlier. This is about as much as a lady in research and development in Slovenia. With regard to passive social policy, we are aware of the limitations, which is why for the first time in the independent Republic of Slovenia we have introduced social activation measures aimed at long-term recipients of financial social assistance, focusing primarily on their empowerment, which is also the direction of all European social policies. This is also shown in the data, in the area of social justice we have advanced from 9th to 5th place, between 28 European countries. We raised monetary social assistance by 30 euros, you said only 300 euros, the government accepted the proposal, an increase to 331. You'll say that's not enough – that means 11.3% increase. I get a lot of questions about why so much. In accordance with our responsibilities, we have acted for more time by ensuring and ensuring the decent life of all categories of inhabitants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia. The minimum wage, remember from the discussions, on the basis of my proposal and the amendment of the law today is the net value of the minimum wage of EUR 638. As for the quality of life of pensioners, don't forget, you passed a law in the National Assembly that 500 euros is a minimum pension. That is why today there are 52 thousand pensions, mainly because there are two-thirds higher pensions. With the amendments to the protective supplement, today 17 000 receive a protective allowance and around 3% of the beneficiaries, the proportion of these increases, and this represents an 80 % increase in the elderly, which is the basic objective, because the level of the risk of poverty of the elderly does not fall, whereas the overall level of the risk of poverty has fallen and is 13.9, with income data from 2015 and all of the following, i.e. data for this year and the following, much better. In the European context, we are among the countries with the lowest risk of poverty. As far as family poverty is concerned, it is 11.9% and has fallen most in all countries. Second thing, according to the quality of life of families, all international studies place us on top. As far as institutional protection related to the elderly is concerned, you mentioned that we did not guarantee it. We together with the Ministry of Health, because the Health Insurance Office is responsible for financing healthcare in institutional care, we have awarded 900 additional seats, 224 have already been awarded, which has not happened for many years. We have also prepared other important programmes, both in the area of pensions and ageing. Given that you were yourself a minister, you would probably be able to list so many cultural improvements for your mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u111	Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I hope this doesn't go personal, because it would be inappropriate. You mentioned 5th place in the European Union's Social Justice Report 2017, but it must be said that this indicator, the 5th place, is obtained on the basis of three areas: your area, education and health. If I list some of the indicators in this report from your field, this is the case, after a long-term unemployment rate in 2017 Slovenia is ranked 18th of 28 countries, which is worse than in 2008 and 2011, in 2017 the unemployment rate and the under-educated by 2016 increased, and is higher than in 2008 and 2011, otherwise Slovenia is ranked 15th among 28 EU countries. After the employment of the elderly, Slovenia is in a catastrophic 26th place among the 28 countries, with the risk of poverty and social exclusion of the elderly in 2017, Slovenia is in a weak 17th to 18th place among the 28 countries in the European Union, Slovenia is 16th to 18th place after unemployment, which is worse than in 2008 and 2011. Fifty thousand employees lived under the poverty threshold. This is due to the inaction or underactivity of your ministry in raising minimum wages. 46,000 minors lived below the poverty line in 2017. Do you realize that their childhood in poverty will mark these children for the rest of their lives? So the ministry has seriously neglected caring for the elderly and others when they are no longer able to care for themselves. This is exactly what is reflected in these indicators that I have [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u113	Minister Anja Kopač Mrak, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u114	Otherwise, we'll never come together because I was talking about the general number and you, of course, listed those who are worse. We can increase this game indefinitely. The fact is, in the labour market, the share of the long-term unemployed is increasing, the overall number is falling, but, of course, those who are more difficult to employ remain, which is why active employment policy measures are mainly targeted at these groups. Unfortunately, the results come much slower than other groups, in young people, as we've been saying all along. However, although there were objective restrictions that the proportion of the long-term unemployed remained high in the structure of the unemployed – the highest in 2014, despite the decrease in 2015, rose again in 2016, but – at the end of December 2017 – 43 thousand 319 long-term unemployed, which was 8 thousand 587 persons and 16.5% less than in December 2016. In addition, the share of long-term unemployed training, i.e. those involved in training, is higher than the EU average of 8.1 than the EU average of 7.5. The European Commission, which generally assesses Slovenia compared to the other 28 countries, presented a report on Friday, shows Slovenia's remarkable progress in this area as regards the general situation in the country. The measures I have mentioned, we have taken many steps, it would certainly be great and ideal if we had a minimum wage of 800, 900, 000 euros, but unfortunately the average net salary in the Republic of Slovenia is slightly over 1,000 euros, and this is the reality of the economic system and other constraints that are. It would be ideal if the minimum income was above the poverty risk threshold, but if - and no European country has, if you look at the European Commission's latest report on minimum income, Denmark, which has a minimum income of 60% of the poverty risk threshold calculated at 40% of the median, while Slovenia is in the group immediately below Denmark with countries with a relatively generous minimum income system. Unfortunately, this is a situation in which all European countries are. Of course, this does not mean that people on minimum incomes do not live hard, but please be realistic enough to at least admit that some effort has been made together because you have adopted all these laws. Of course, there could be more, but there was nothing done, and at the end of the term, while you were my colleague in the government for two years, that you are a member of the coalition, I simply find it difficult to agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u115	Ma'am mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u116	Thank you very much. It has certainly not been said that nothing has happened, but it is also my duty as a Member to point out areas where nothing has really been done, and this is especially the area of the elderly and all that I have listed before, with the fifth place that is not exactly due to your ministry, but thanks to the field of education. The fact is that, even today, we have heard Dr. Mir Cerar, who had a full mouth, how everyone cares for the poorer inhabitants, especially the retired ones, but – if we look at the laws we have tabled in order to really remedy the situation in this area, that is to say, the law on the demographic fund, on the raising of widows' pensions, the law by which we eliminate the deprivation of pensions due to the freezing of pensions during the crisis, they are not supported by any parliamentary party. Without a vote against it, the last law I mentioned was supported by the State Council. On the contrary, the White Paper was proposed to make the situation of pensioners worse. So, somehow, I find that before the elections, everyone has a full mouth of promise for all the different layers of the population, when the elections are over, but it is more than forgotten. For this reason, I would also like to predict that our party's entry into the future coalition will be subject to the aforementioned laws of Desus, which will also eliminate past deprivations of pensioners. Nevertheless, I can say that we have managed to ensure regular and extraordinary coordination of pensions for pensioners. Somehow, I cannot believe that the remainder of the Minister's mandate, which will also have limited powers, could be regulated by anything that could not be settled at a time when the Minister was still in full authority. That is why I will not propose a debate on Mrs Minister's response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u117	Mrs Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, on this occasion let me tell you that this is an abuse, however, without a proposal, but the last meeting is, we will be tolerant of such things. Mr Jan Škoberne will put the question to the Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, and to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić. Here you go, Mr. Skoberne. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will deliberately get out of the dance in the last days, when we are now trying to tell within the former coalition who has done more wrong, I think that one of the important achievements of this government and this coalition is putting the third development axis into space, this is something that many coalitions and governments have tried before us, unfortunately not. The process was extremely demanding precisely because we are putting an outstanding infrastructure and logistics facility into a space that we are interfering with in the landscape, into people's lives. It is also because of this and many objections and the desire that this coalition and government achieves so much more. In a way, although it is the last meeting, I hope that the process should not be stopped, that it must continue with both finalisation and land purchase and so on. In the light of this, I would like to ask the two ministers in particular the question of how well and to what extent their wishes, their comments, their views on how, where and under what conditions this road should be placed, would also be taken into account. In particular, I would ask for the following information, if possible. I want to know: What happens to the proposals of the Konovo National Community regarding the connection to the village? What is happening to the proposal for an additional anti-group fence around Pesso? Are we making progress as far as the requirements of the Municipality of Šmartno ob Paka are concerned and are relevant because the road there reaches the country most? I understand that all these answers, because there have been very large comments, may not be possible to comment on my question, and I will also be grateful if we can obtain this more specific information later. But I think it's important, because when a team is going to say goodbye, people need to know that, even as a coalition, we've said that we're going to put this facility in space as much as possible and in line with their wishes, their needs, their knowledge and their right to know where they are, so that maybe there won't be any surprises about the next team. In short, it's kind of an understatement. I also want to know: How successful were we at the Šmartne near Paka? Will we be able to cover those fundamental desires and expectations over Mount Olive, in the Pesse? What's it like with the connecting road at Konov's? As has already been said, I think I can, on behalf of everyone for whom this project is important, but I can also say thank you for the successful cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u119	Minister Irena Majcen, please, you have the floor first.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u120	Dear President, honourable Member, honourable Members! Mr Jan Škoberne, thank you for the question. The fact is that the proposals for placing the third development axis began in 2004, but because the entire transport link is several kilometres long, the preparatory acts were divided into several individual units. How have we been successful in this mandate? I hope he's even successful. The Ministry of Environment and Space conducts procedures for the adoption of the State Spatial Plan, the Government accepts. Of course, an investor plays quite a role here. It is true that in 2012 the Government adopted DN for the Ljubljana–Brežje motorway at the New Town until the accession of Malina, in 2013 the state road from Velenje south to the connection of Slovenia Gradec south, and our government adopted in 2017 the DN for the Šentilj–Koper motorway at Šentrupert and Velenje connection and in the same year accepted the DN also for the state road from Malina to Metlika or Črnomelj south connection. This means that we have tried to balance the acceptance of VAT on both axes. In preparation and as a result, the State Spatial Plans for the State Road between Holmec and the Otiški Vrh connection, the state road between the Slovenia Gradec south and Dravograd connection with the bypass, the state road for the Maribor-Ljubljana motorway and the New Town motorway and the state road from the Črnomelj south to Vinica connection. Since the placement process is interdisciplinary, the process is complex. If we just remember the debate of the locals, at least I remember it very well, in Laško, when this debate between the locals made it known that the third development axis of Laškoa should be avoided, I would say that the planning itself takes into account the country's comments to a large extent, but unfortunately, if we took all the comments into account, then the VAT could not be accepted at all. This is the reality of adopting State spatial acts, that in some cases it is necessary, I would say, to overcome this dissatisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u121	Minister Peter Gasperšič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u122	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, too, Mr Škobernet, for the question raised. I would also like to express my satisfaction that in this mandate we have made a huge shift on the development axes, that this missing State Spatial Plan from highway to Velenje has been adopted, that the State Spatial Plan has also been adopted from Malina to Metlika, that of course the placement in the space, what the Minister has already said, is from Otiški Vrh to Holmec and from Slovenia Gradc to Dravograd. There are still important tasks here. It is to this end that we have concluded several protocols, in the north with all the tanned local communities, namely municipalities, and also in the south with the municipalities of Novo mesto, Semič, Metlik and Črnomelj. I am convinced that this is the only way we can come up with solutions that are true in the space that guarantee all those development goals pursued by the country, as well as all the needs that are advocated and needed by local communities. I think that we have found a balanced solution here in all cases, but of course, as the Minister has already said, it is unfortunately impossible to please everything. I would not have the correct answers to the specific questions you have asked today. I know that, with the municipalities of Braslovča and Šmartno, we have concluded special protocols along the Paka coast, which have also defined these local measures, but I do not know about the matters you have asked. I know that, as part of the planning that will now begin to work for the third development axis, connecting roads, such as the Letus road, will also be planned, including many other local roads and cycling routes. In short, these are all things that bring great benefits to the local environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u123	We continue with the question of the Member States. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will ask Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc's question to the Minister of Health. Here you go, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u124	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I would like to ask you the following question: When will information support be put in place for the licensing system for the sale of tobacco and related products? In my opinion, this system and this rule are not yet in place. The Act on the Limitation of the Use of Tobacco and Related Products entered into force as early as a month last March and Article 48 of this Act provides that the Minister of Health should be required within six months of the entry into force of the Act, i.e. until 11. 9. 2007 draw up a regulation setting out in more detail the conditions of sale and the procedures and methods of electronic submission of applications. The industry involved here is also a significant contributor to the state budget by excise duties. So since you've been late for more than six months, I'm wondering: What are the reasons for this delay? Do you even consider extending the deadlines applicable here to the tobacco industry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u125	Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u126	Thanks again for saying that. Thank you, too, Mr Pogačnik, for the question. It is true that the Act on the Restriction of the Use of Tobacco and Related Products provides that a marketing authorisation must be obtained. This will make it possible to monitor tobacco sellers and effectively implement legislation in this field, notably advertising the sale of these products to minors. This has also led to the introduction of permits because we want to ensure that only those who respect this law will have this permission. Let me say that four rules have already been issued on the basis of this law. Allow me to briefly list them and finally tell you what is currently going on in a particular rule. It is true, as the Member has rightly stated, that Article 32 of this Law provides that all those selling tobacco and tobacco and other related products must obtain a sale licence on which an administrative fee is paid, which is EUR 18 and the sale licence is valid for 5 years. The Regulation on Authorisations for the sale of tobacco and related products, which will lay down more detailed conditions regarding the authorisation system, is in preparation and will be public debate in the near future. Let us say that we are also preparing a programme that is being tested at the same time, because we want to follow the requirement that we place as little administrative burden on those responsible for this authorisation as possible. Therefore, together with the Ministry of Public Administration, we are preparing a completely new information programme or support for the submission of these applications and the acquisition of licences. The applications will be accessible through the e-VEM portal for both businesses and independent entrepreneurs. The submission of the application will take place within the framework of the Information System Core of Electronic Procedures, called JEP, which, as I have already said, is in the process of testing. It will be possible to log into the system very quickly and easily and thus get this permission. The Ministry will, on its websites, on the websites of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and through the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, when this system is verified, the final stage of testing will call upon all current sellers to obtain this application or to submit this application, and will then give all detailed instructions to establish it. We know that these licences are to enter into force or will be necessary on 11 November of this year. Anyone already authorised will also be able to obtain and carry out activities after that date. The Regulation will therefore be in the short term in public debate, the programme is being tested, and as soon as it is completed, the Regulation will be published and it will be another new administratively friendly application for all those who need this permission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u127	Mag. Marko Pogačnik, you have the floor to request an explanation of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u128	Dear Minister, your answer was very similar to your four-year leadership of this ministry. This answer was in vain, without content, and without everything. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been asking you why you've been lagging behind with the rules for over six months. You didn't give me any answers. You just said something was going to be coming up, but there's an industry back here that's filling the Slovenian budget with about 450 million euros of excise duty a year. This represents more than 5 % of gross domestic product. The law itself requires the industry to apply for permission no later than 11. 5. 2018 and today they do not know on what basis they should apply for this Regulation. Dear Minister, by law and by article 48, this rule should be drawn up by you, not yesterday or tomorrow, more than six months ago. Dear Minister, you're late for tax reform, you're late for regulations, you're late for everything. In four years you have done virtually nothing, from late to late, but here mainly citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia suffer with waiting types in the healthcare system. You also question the creation of an industry that fills the Slovenian budget with excise duties of more than €450 million per year. You still have a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u129	Madam Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u130	Thank you. When the Member said I was late for tax reform, it was probably a lapsus, but I will not use it now to talk about what they imagine under tax reform. The Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act has a number of regulations. Let me say that we have more than half of them, the ones we have already been able to issue and have been published in the Official Journal. As I said, no one will be deprived of the possibility of obtaining a sales permit, November 11th is a very distant date. However, you need to know that it will be possible to write detailed instructions in the Regulation when the program is tested, when it is fully operational and all possible shortcomings will be addressed. We're doing this together with the Ministry of Public Administration. I must say that this is again something completely new in the Slovenian space, which is why this delay is also due to one rule. However, all other regulations have been issued as prescribed in the law, except for one, which requires further notification to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u131	Mag. Marko Pogačnik, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u132	Madam President, thank you once again for the floor. In accordance with the rules of procedure, I propose that a public debate be held. Madam Minister, once again, this is an industry that fills the Slovenian budget with more than €450 million of excise duties per year. And, Madam Minister, you were the proposer of this law, your ministry was ultimately the proponent of this law, and your government. You've written your own marriage, you've written your own hands and your own hands now, I'd say you're deliberately breaking or delaying. You're late for this deadline, as you missed in these four years of your rule at this ministry. Indeed, my lapsus, instead of tax reform, was the health reform you promised and you did not make it. And if you say today, everything will be done — you have written this law yourself! We then warned you whether this licensing was appropriate. Now you have said that this will be a unique thing in the European Union, if I understand you correctly. If you're preparing for the refugees, how can the industry that will be subject to this licensing know what you'll remember in this regulation? Dear Minister, I am sure that a public debate would be urgently needed, because how much economic damage can the Slovenian budget suffer because of your delays? I think it would make sense to give an answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u133	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Ms Anita Koleša will ask the Minister of Culture, Mr Anton Persak, a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u134	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Mr. Minister, ten days ago, you and your Ministry addressed an open letter from the Dean of the Academy of Music, Prof. Marko Vatovec, and the Director of the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for cultural activities mag. Marco Repnik. The open letter has an important and disturbing title: The end of the Slovenian Supreme Assembly? Fortunately, at the end of this sentence still ask, and of course both writers are very concerned that the time may not have come when this question will be deleted. For over 15 years I worked in culture, including singing choirs, and I can say that this work and creative association with singers was one of the most creative in the field of amateur cultural activity. So much positive energy that becomes an extremely creative and qualitative activity in cities is difficult to find in the life of a cultural environment. The fact is, the Slovenian choir is a success story. With two million inhabitants, we are world champions in the multitude of congregational organization and in the highest quality of congregation implementation, also very much recognized by the top composers who create such music literature. Now, all of a sudden, we face facts that can only grieve us and remind us how quickly we can lose something that we've been building for decades. For those who may not know this open letter, let me read or introduce only the introduction: “The trend of leaving financial support for the top choir activity by the Ministry of Culture began years ago, four years ago only another assembly from the set of outstanding and clearly measurable international successes was adopted for co-financing. This year, as a result of the four-year public call for co-financing of public cultural programmes, the trend has reached an extreme point with the total elimination of all activities from co-financed programmes, which is in total disagreement with the top achievements in this area." Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: How do you respond to this open letter? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u135	Minister Anton Peršak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you for your question. Let me begin by saying that at the Ministry we were a little surprised to learn about this public letter that you quoted and which bears a somewhat apocalyptic title, the end of the Slovenian Supreme Assembly? At the Ministry of Culture, we are certainly aware of the importance that the choir has in our lovemaking activities. This activity represents an exceptional enrichment of Slovenian culture, bringing together a genuine Slovenian expression and mass, as we know, not to the detriment of quality and creativity. In short, this time we are talking about the work of the congregation activity, which is taking place in the framework of the amateur activity, but there are, as we know, also professional assemblies, which also work successfully and contribute to the development of choir singing in Slovenia. The Ministry must deny that financial support for high-level assembly activities is being abandoned. Of course, in allocating funds, the Ministry is linked to public calls and public calls carried out in accordance with the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. A number of applicants, authors and performers of different types of music compete in public calls, and in this area they go together to hundreds of them. Tenders shall be open to all who meet the conditions and may be co-financed by programmes or projects receiving the highest evaluation by the expert commission. This threshold is slightly lower in the public tender for the Public Fund for Cultural Activities, and a number of public fund calls successfully run for funds. Still. On the basis of a public call from the Ministry or a public call, the programmes or projects which are the highest evaluated in the selection process shall be financed in accordance with the criteria. In the field of music, 8 projects were selected from 2018 to 2021 as part of the last programme call for the selection of public cultural programmes in the field of art, which unfortunately did not have any assembly this time, but the Ministry also published a multi-annual project call and a one-year project call for meetings, which could also be applied for. Each call also provides an opportunity for all applicants to co-finance their activities and opportunities for new successes in their field of operation by means of a high-quality application. Let me add that so far, cooperation with the Public Fund for Cultural Activities has been exemplary all year round, and the funding for amateur activity has been gradually increasing over the last few years, amounting to 4 million €59 000 this year, and the programming resources, at least those that are awarded by the public fund for the programmes of the final beneficiaries, amount to close to EUR 550 000. In addition to the regular funding for the operation of the Fund, the Ministry of Culture has allocated an additional EUR 50 000 in 2015 also for the work of the Academy singing choir, Tone Tomšič, and the French Marolt Academic Folklore Group. Both applicants then fell out of programme funding due to poorly prepared applications. However, within the proposed activities, the public fund itself has the resources it receives by means of an annual decision of the Ministry, in particular setting programme priorities. The importance of choir singing was recognized last year by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, on a proposal from the Ministry of Culture, confirmed the co-financing of the European assembly festival Europa Cantat, which will take place in Ljubljana in July 2021. The government will spend almost a million euros in total to implement the festival in the period until 2021. In short, there is still room for funding from public funds tenders and some other calls from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u137	Mrs. Anita Kolesh, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u138	Just so, I am also aware of a slight increase in funds for calls by the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for cultural activities, but this is more or less for some additional projects, which are also related to costs in the amounts that you yourself have discussed, so I still believe that this area, namely the area of assembly, but in this period allocated little resources in any case, as well as in the light of what you mentioned to me at the end, will be one very large assembly event in a few years from now. In a way, I am pleased at least that you have made a decision to host a great festival such as Europa Cantat in 2021. The event, for those of you who may not know, will bring about 4,000 singers and choir singers from all over the world to Slovenia. I am also extremely happy about this, and I hope that it will happen that we will promote this extraordinary cultural event significantly better, because we may have missed this opportunity when we were the capital of Europe or was one of Slovenia's cities. You have already mentioned a financial contribution to this end, but perhaps it would be right, Mr Minister, to mention whether there are any additional activities or activities that have been taken up in the Government in relation to this project, because I really wish that, regardless of what we have heard from the writers of this letter, that we are neglecting the choral activity, but we have prepared this event in the manner it is appropriate for the state of Slovenia, a country where we very much appreciate the choir singing and we have very well organised assemblies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u139	Minister Anton Peršak, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u140	In view of the fact that Mrs Kolesh, in fact, said her opinion, there are only two things I can add. One is that we all know that the resources for culture in the last five, six years until 2016 have fallen considerably, practically by 30%, especially at the expense of the programmes, because the resources allocated to the implementation of the programmes of public institutions, where wages in particular, could not, of course, be reduced equally. With 2017/2018, the cultural budget is being improved to some extent, and part of this is that for the Public Fund for Cultural Activities so far there is little, but we are already slightly increasing the funds and thus also the funds for programmes financed through the Fund. As regards the assemblies, in particular those of the highest quality, there will be another call, which is expected in a short time, with at least those which are very active in the area of intercultural exchange, if I may say so, saying that they are promoting Slovenian choir culture also outside the borders of Slovenia, there is another option to apply. However, as regards Europe Cantat, it is not only about the allocation of funds, but also about the basic organisational tasks already outlined by the Government, and so on, so I am sure that this event will also be organised with dignity and, above all, will be a major event already due to the number of congregations and singers who will participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u141	Mr Jan Mahnic will ask the question of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u142	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary! As the term of office ends, it is a good opportunity to look at what has been done. Unfortunately, in the end, we find that the battle was small. I'm going to focus on young people. Not to mention, I'll just read what you wrote down, what will be done in the mandate of the government of Mir Cerar. You will strengthen supervision of the implementation of youth employment measures, provide conditions for access to the first home for young and young families, organize support for the Slovenian Institute of Employment for the active search for a new service for young people already during the retirement period, improve mechanisms for actively seeking first employment, upgrade the competences of people in charge of addressing the problem of young unemployed people. Specific measures are: All in one place, a career incubator for the active inclusion of young people in the labour market and learning at the level of vocational and secondary schools, affordable kindergartens for young people, a voucher system for compulsory traineeships and practices, housing cooperatives, a student digital library for the recording of informal work experiences of young people, integration of career incubators into the regular school system at all levels, favourable loans for the purchase or restoration of older rural houses and the acquisition of farms for young people and public works for unemployed young people in rural areas with a view to reviving farms and cultural heritage. This is not all under your department, given what I have read, I should certainly include the Minister of the Environment, who is more responsible for housing, the Minister of Agriculture, the Minister for Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, but you, as Minister of Education, should somehow keep an eye on the situation of young people, and, last but not least, in the presidential campaign, have placed great emphasis on giving young people the right at 16 years of age, which is, after you have failed to run for office, that you would certainly be able to put this proposal into the procedure. Madam Minister, if we only stay with what has been said, I am interested: What was in this government's mandate, in particular in three years – I think three years – as long as you were a minister, were done? How's the internship? We know that you have repeatedly rejected the proposal proposed by the SDS Group. Above all, I am also interested in: How is the follow-up to the Constitutional Court's decision on the financing of primary schools? These are some questions that I am interested in what you have done in this area in this mandate.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u143	Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u144	Dear Presidents, Honourable Fellows, Fellow Members and of course Members of Parliament! Few minutes will now be available to tell us what has been done in the field of youth, but I will really focus mainly on the education and development work, not so much on the active employment policy, which is in the main domain of the Ministry of Labour within all employment measures. However, let me say that we are one of the European countries that has reduced youth unemployment the most in the last three years, and this is one of those really qualitative measures that are due not only to economic growth, but mainly to the ground that have fuelled youth employment. Let me start with the VEM for young people. It was also one of the arrangements for how young people can move faster, with three clicks, as we call it, to get all the information both on employment and on housing policy and on student work scholarships. At the same time, our commitment was also, you have not highlighted, more accessible to kindergartens, especially for young families. We have fulfilled this commitment – I apologize if you are – because you know that we are growing in involvement also because of measures related to the payment of responsibilities or the inclusion of children, especially when it comes to young families. Not only that, but also for those more vulnerable groups that really need adequate accommodation and socialisation, such as Roma, socially disadvantaged families and so on. You know that we also introduce a new concept of socialisation when we go to primary school. Since you just mentioned the elementary school work, the ZOFVI ended up here in Parliament with appropriate measures. We still think that they were true that they were also well-targeted primarily for the development and growth and inclusion of young people. I have already explained about traineeships in the opening question of Mr Luke Mesco, and I have already provided all the data on traineeships and also on systematic employment in primary education and kindergartens, because we are hiring not only teachers, but also teachers' assistants, also because we now have a whole new generation in primary schools this year. The field of apprenticeship is one that has also been taken and laid down as one of the fields, or under the equestrian system, to say that we have introduced it, that it is true that it is in the first steps, that we are also preparing appropriate campaigns to encourage young people to understand what apprenticeship really means to get rid of this debilitating sound. That in fact vocational education is already more interesting, it also shows an increase in the last three, four years, because in individual occupational groups in secondary schools, secondary education centres are being promoted. As far as scholarships and credits are concerned, first of all, let me mention the special programme at the Ministry of Agriculture for Young Farmers, which has also been extremely successful in entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship in the agricultural field, which has allocated more than 12 million euros and very many transfers of family farms to younger ones, who now run farms. Staff scholarships, more than 3 million funding for co-financing of staff scholarships, but I must stress something that does not exhaust all scholarships, especially in the deficit professions, which we are now trying to promote with professional awareness, by raising awareness of what these professions mean. The recording of work experience I think is very important, including in the preparation for traineeships, in the first entry into the labour market, we have now introduced a new register of student work with which work experience is recorded. What may be even more important is that, in the framework of European projects – I believe that now is not the time to go from project to project – we are spending €170 million on youth, either first jobs or socialisation, or national networks of action for young people, youth organisations and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u145	Mr. Jean Mahnič, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u146	Thank you. What's listed is held in case of action. As far as the results are concerned, the situation is a little different. It is true that unemployment among young people has been reduced most in the European Union, but you did not say that Slovenia is on its tail after the success of drawing on European funds. When we look at countries that are smaller than us, which have just as many programs, they've exhausted ten times more than we have. Not to mention that 8,000 young people go abroad every year, it's 32,000 more than 4 years. Yes, because it is logical that youth unemployment will be reduced if that is the case. You said real action at the ZOFVI. If the measures were correct, the law would be adopted. However, the measures would only be right if we actually followed the judgement of the Constitutional Court or if you wanted to adopt such a proposal as we proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party. As far as apprenticeship is concerned, Madam Minister, if the apprentices are 53, as my colleague Lisec has just told me that they are currently in the programme, I do not know if this is a success in four years. Not to say that we are in a transitional period and that the apprenticeship system could have if we had confirmed this proposal already in 2015 when we first proposed it. As regards measures for young farmers, Madam Minister, if there are any measures, I am interested in why, for a good year, the average age of farmers on Slovenian farms has increased. Everything you've listed holds in the sense that there have been some measures, but the results are different. The results are not what you would like, as you wrote them not only in the SMC Youth Programme before the 2014 elections, but also in the commitment within the Coalition Treaty. I have counted them several times, and I can say that more than 20% have not been achieved. That's what I'm [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u147	Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u148	As far as the statements in the coalition contract are concerned, it certainly is not true, and all that I have defined is in fact also the definition of measures exactly in accordance with the Coalition Treaty. Let me go back to drawing on the funds that you specifically highlighted. It is true, on some programmes – unfortunately, I cannot deliver results for each department as far as drawing is concerned, but let me stress that pumping is not only dependent on young people, but also depends on other stakeholders who can promote their employment and which are also part of European resource draw-up programmes. When we talk about apprenticeship, let me also appeal here to employers, especially to the chambers, to actively help us do this, because it is important to encourage young people, especially parents and families, to understand this positive connotation of apprenticeship and to encourage even faster development together with the participatory approach. However, we have committed ourselves to progressive development and, above all, quality assurance. This does not mean that it is simply feasible overnight. As far as the bad areas you mentioned, such as young farmers, various forms of employment, are concerned, you should know that it is a great success, however, that the number of unemployed young people is significantly reduced. In fact, we are one of the first three countries in Europe that has made this possible in the last three years. At the same time, it is also important to strengthen the forms of entrepreneurship of young people, because when we look at the structure of their employment, they are not only in short-term forms, but also in longer-term forms, even in self-employment, which is also the result of the promotion of entrepreneurship, we now call it, from kindergarten upwards. The commitment to create a supportive environment that will encourage young people is also important in the implementation of all youth programmes, and we are talking about local communities and different institutions, and NGOs are very helpful in doing so, and young people are using it. As regards the national programme that binds the youth field or youth organisation, I can say that some results are not yet the same as we would like them to be, and as we have committed ourselves, even because we have not yet achieved the desired active participation of young people in a way that is right with regard to the local and also the national part and institutional commitment to achieving results. However, the results are linked to a number of departments, so if you want a more explicit review, this should also be addressed to other ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u149	Mr. Jan Mahnic, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u150	Mr Vice-President, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the Minister's reply be discussed or, rather, that a debate be held on what has happened for young people and what has not been done in this mandate. Madam Minister, the fact that apprenticeship has some sort of weak appeal is your words. When I talk to entrepreneurs when I talk to young people, all apprenticeships see me as something positive and really sad if the referee says that apprenticeship is something bad, then this measure will not come to life because the minister from the biggest government party has done so. [[…]] I'm sorry that you haven't accepted this, but we've proposed a system three times that would actually drink into the water. Unfortunately, the results are the same as they are. I agree that when we talk about the Youth Guarantee, it is mostly at the Minister of the Ministry of Anji Kopač Mrak, but there are certainly measures that fall under your department, and this programme should be overwinded and looked at what is being financed in the first place. I don't know what kind of certificates that don't help young people in their employment, in their later search for employment or entry into the labour market, but I think that they're throwing money out the window, given that we got 9.6 million euros, and Ireland got 68.2 million euros. In short, the Ministry of Labour's fund-raising was unsuccessful in this segment, unfortunately. The project was prepared as it was, the money was as much as it was given what kind of project it was prepared. I hope that the next government will listen more to young people to take measures for young people. One of the measures that actually concerns the housing problems of young people or the resolution of young people will be, I think, on Wednesday at the plenary session of the National Assembly, where in the SDS we propose that empty state dwellings, which are immediately habitable, be placed on the Housing Fund and given to young and young families after non-profit rentals, can be redeemed after five years and counted. This, Madam Minister, is working for a possible month, with all the apparatus you have at the Ministry, or if it is necessary to include it, I think that, at least two ministries and your ministry run by Mrs Irena Majcen, this matter can be dealt with quickly. But unfortunately time was delayed, all the suggestions that came from our side were rejected, and today the result is the same as it is. 8 000 young people a year go abroad, grow old farmers in rural farms, there are no real measures, no apprenticeships and no school funding in accordance with [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u151	Although the Minister wanted to respond, this is unfortunately not possible under the rules of procedure, so we will decide on your proposal tomorrow in the context of the vote. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšić. Here you go, Mr. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister! One last time about the second track in the form of sent questions. You know very well that in Levica we advocate that Slovenia build a second track on its own without the participation of foreign capital. That's what we call the so-called plan B for the second track. If this plan B were to be implemented, once again I stress that we would maintain control of the second track, the revenues from the second track would be maintained in their own hands and so on. We estimate that record growth in Slovenia allows us to provide these additional 200 million euro capital by 2020 without additional debt. I have a feeling that the main obstacle to implementing this plan B is actually your ministry. During the referendum, if we remember, you promised that the project would be possible even without foreign capital, but now you are doing everything in some way to make it impossible to build another track without foreign capital. What am I talking about? On 23 January, the European Commission granted €109 million to Slovenia at the IPE Blending invitation, and the Secretary of State Leben also made a public promise that Slovenia would conclude a co-financing agreement on 23 January that would allow us to draw on European funds, even without the participation of Hungarian capital. But on March 6th, your secretary of state turned the board around again and said the following, quote: “We have proposed to the Commission that in the work that says that the financial contribution is provided by Slovenia and Hungary, Slovenia and another European country”. End of quote. It's just a disaster. You are actually proposing to the European Commission that Slovenia withdraw these €109 million if the National Assembly does not agree to Hungary's demands or one of the other European countries. Therefore, negotiations with Hungary are lost in advance, because why would Orban or any other stateman withdraw from his demands, whatever they are if he sees that the Slovenian government has no alternative or backup plan. I'm interested in two things: How can the Secretary of State advocate that Slovenia lose its European resources if it rejects the demands of Hungary or other European countries? Will you still have discussions with the European Commission despite the resignation of the Prime Minister? In these discussions, will you advocate a formulation for Slovenia to retain European funds, even if foreign capital replaces itself?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u153	Minister Peter Gasperšič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u154	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, too, Mr Tašner Vatovac, for the question raised. It is obvious that for the last time in this mandate, we are talking about the second track in this way as Minister and Member of Parliament, but surely the second track will not be the last word. Last but not least, I have answered a very similar question today and I am pleased to have the opportunity to reexplain this very important matter. You ask me according to plan B, and in doing so you somehow submit the solution that plan B is that Slovenia is financing the second track itself, in a classic way from the budget. Whoever offers this solution, does not know what it means, or deliberately deceives the public and wants to offer a solution that is not. I have already tried to be clear enough today, and also in the past, and obviously this is either not heard or unwilling to understand, so I will try to say again what budget funding would actually mean. Budget funding would mean that, in order to build a second track, the State should provide funding through budgetary debt, which would immediately constitute a direct increase in public debt in the given public limited circumstances, which is once again problematic in terms of the fiscal rule and all the constraints that we have committed ourselves to. On the other hand, even if we did, this would mean considerable expenditure from the budget for the construction of the second track, which on the other hand would immediately mean a shortage of these funds for other needs, not least for infrastructure needs – we know that they are very large – and for other resources, from education, health, the police, the military and so on. Therefore, the Government has drawn up with full responsibility a financial model which is also precisely defined by this law, the concessionary construction of this project, where the concessionary investor of 2TKK, under which this financial structure, which is composed, is very balanced, is established, from the capital deposits provided by the Republic of Slovenia and the participating Länder from the grants of around 250 million, we have practically achieved this with the activities so far, and in the remainder by borrowing through the European Investment Bank with, very important, a guarantee of the EFSI mechanism, the so-called Juncker Fund, which means that no guarantee will have to be given to the State for this debt. In short, everything is done in such a way that the taxpayer of Slovenia is at least burdened by the provision of the financial structure. On the other hand, the concession model means what is also defined in the law to provide revenue for the recovery of all the inputs needed to build the second track. These revenues are the transshipment fee at the port of Koper, the toll premium for freight vehicles at the section of the highway from Kopra to Šentrupert and the utility for rail infrastructure at this section. These are the revenues that the company will reimburse in the period of concession envisaged by the law for 45 years in connection with construction. Finally, this project will cost no taxpayers, as 2TKK will reimburse all costs with the revenue provided by the law and revenue from infrastructure users. We are therefore offering a solution that does not burden taxpayers, and you are offering a solution that will burden taxpayers in full or if it is possible to borrow the name of a civil initiative that speaks, The taxpayers do not give themselves, it would be better to call this initiative the taxpayers all lady. This is what is more here on this subject I really cannot say, the story is completely clear, transparent. Whoever says we don't need it, I repeat, doesn't know what he's talking about, or is deliberately deceiving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u155	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, please, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u156	I can think of that saying, as if I wanted a good morning for the deaf. Minister, the one who is deceiving is you, we have never claimed that the project would be entirely funded from the budget, on the contrary. We consider the financial structure to be fine, with the exception of the work concerning foreign capital, i.e. the foreign country for which you or your ministry, as well as Mr Dragonja, were already at the time of the referendum and argued that it is possible for foreign capital to change budgetary resources. Not to say that this would be to the detriment of other projects, both infrastructure and social, because we know that there is a surplus in the budget that, even in those years, Mr Dragonja himself said, could cover this, but in extreme force, we could reduce by 200 million the funds that you intend to give to NATO's commitments, but this is another story. Here I would only point out that the European Commission itself rejects the claims that foreign capital participation is necessary. On 27 January, the Directorate for Mobility and Transport of the European Commission made it clear in the communication: "In the period of construction, Hungarian support could be one of the many possible solutions to start funding. Of course, other solutions, other financial inputs, including national ones, can also be foreseen." End of quote. It is not that it would not be possible to carry out this project without Hungarian or other capital, but the question is whether we want it. I insist, or I would ask for an answer, whether, nevertheless, given that there were some positive signs when Mr Leben was in Brussels, we could negotiate with the European Commission to replace foreign capital with our own, domestic capital.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u157	Minister Gaszperšič, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I'm sorry if I didn't understand what you're actually proposing as a solution to the alternative, so Plan B, what would you see? If I understand that this is an exclusive budget, I apologize. As I understand you, you still think that 2TKK and the concession model are the right way, and the law in this sense is the right solution, only in the part where we have capital injections made up of Slovenia and the participating icy state, you think that this part would be missed. If so, this is a very different picture, but of course we can talk about what Hungary means to participate in this project, whether it is something that we should avoid, or whether it is something that benefits Slovenia. I am convinced that we are here establishing a strategic partnership that brings both participating countries essential strategic benefits in the development of both Luke Koper and the infrastructure we are building with this partnership and in the long-term development of logistics, which is why we are doing all this together, in fact. This contribution is, in fact, some of the benefits that this project and all this cooperation can generate for the entire 40, 45 years provided for in the concession period. Since you mentioned earlier that we are losing some control of infrastructure, I would like to say that this is not true. The law makes it clear that the supervision of infrastructure management is still under the control of SZ-Infrastructure. So, over train management, over maintenance, in short, all these railway traffic management powers are maintained in the Republic of Slovenia. It's only about how we're going to build this infrastructure and how we're going to pay it off on the cabin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u159	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u160	Thank you. After a good three years or perhaps more, it shows that we still need a general discussion about this, even because we feel that it is not too late or that something can be done. We know what the chronology of this project was, and I'm not going to renew it again because I've done it many times. As for the financial structure itself and the model, of course, 2TKK and such a way of building an anomaly, which, if I use that word, is special, given that no other infrastructure project is built in this way. However, the main mistake of such a methodology is, of course, to include foreign capital. This is not only a question of who will transport train compositions after the second stage, but it is also a question of the participation of investors in the company itself, so not only the sharing of profits, but also the sharing of management of this company and, say, the votes they will have on the Administrative Supervisory Board or any other body in the 2TDK. There's no way to ignore what it means to go into such a partnership. Even if we look at the case of Ine and Mol in Croatia, where such cooperation also results from some exacerbation of relations between the country and a long arbitral justification, who will actually remain the owner. We are talking about putting this line in the management of 2TKK for 40 and more years, although there are certain risks. We know that the negotiations with Hungary for the Interstate Treaty have now seen that the National Assembly has confirmed this form, and I am here afraid that such a story as we have seen with Teš 6 will happen again, so that you will come to the next Parliament with the text of this ratification law that Members will have to adopt, or you will say that there will be no second track. I think that these are too many risks for such a large infrastructure project to run in this way, and that we should try and negotiate everything with the European Commission in some way in order to allow such a financial structure to be repaired, to eliminate foreign capital. In particular, because of what we have seen with the referendum fiasco, how this project is actually managed from the very beginning, which is certainly not a good way to build it in a transparent way, especially in a cheap way. I'm afraid if we move on like this, we're going to overpay this project and not build it most rationally. I propose that we hold a general debate on this at one of the next meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u161	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr Marko Ferruga will ask Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc's question to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Minister, the Ministers and all the other "persistents"! I'd like to ask about the case concerning the Bono Medical Clinic in Novi Gorica. This ended quite strongly in Primorsk. I would like to understand the reasons why such a long-standing bureaucratic way should be handled. I think that's one of the positive things that happened there. Minister, I want to know: What are the concrete solutions to the current situation? Do you foresee any less bureaucratic, technocratic, legal, whatever we call them, things that could be set up as quickly as possible for bono ambulances – of course with all the rules they need to be, and, of course, doctors there who would like to do a pro bono – in order to have this as a support to the entire health system? I therefore ask from this city, Minister, what is your view of the solution to this particular matter, and perhaps this matter can also apply to any other initiatives that will arise on the basis of this, is said to be pro bono health outpatients. I think it could be another mosaic in solving health issues and all the other stuff that's in here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u163	Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u164	Thank you for the question, honourable Member Ferruga. Vice-Presidents, Members, Members, colleagues and colleagues! Why am I grateful for this question? Because there are two matters to be settled here. In fact, it is not a problem or a matter of establishing a bono ambulance itself, but it is a matter of granting the status of a humanitarian organisation to one of the founders of this pro bono ambulance. To be clear, allow me some introductory explanations. It is a sad fact that there are still people in Slovenia who, due to the various complex and insurmountable circumstances, remain without compulsory health insurance. This is why in European countries, as well as in us, they establish and operate for the bono outpatients, we have three in Slovenia, namely Ljubljana, Maribor and Koper. Also, this pro bono ambulance works, and I will talk about it a little later, in Primorsk, because the granting of humanitarian status to one of the founders has no direct link or is not a condition. Let me mention that the Ministry has always advocated the accessibility of health services for all, including unprotected persons. We know that in the new proposal of the law virtually everyone has compulsory health insurance in order to help function for a bono outpatient, we have been co-financed by programmes of assistance, advice and care for these people since 2013. It also includes pro bono outpatients who, for example, received €160,000 for their operations on the basis of the call for proposals. In addition, I should like to say that the Ministry also pays emergency health services for all persons who do not have this insurance. For example, in the past year, 600,000 money for health services has also been provided to these people from our Ministry. The Ministry of Health therefore does not establish a pro bono ambulance and does not give consent for their operation. The usual founders for the bono ambulance are health homes, the congregation, various humanitarian organizations and other associations. However, if one of the partners or society is engaged in humanitarian work, they may request to be granted the status of a humanitarian organisation. For the pro bono ambulance in Novi Gorica opened already in March 2016 and works and the Ministry of Health requested the granting of the status of the humanitarian organization at the end of July, but this status wants to have one of the founders, this is the Transvessolian Zombie Church of the Blessed Ringing, the House of Goodness. In accordance with the legislation in force, this is with the Humanitarian Organizations Act, we have a seven-member committee composed of various representatives of charities, representatives of the Social Chamber, the Ministry of Labour and Health. On the basis of the law, this seven-member commission has concluded that the applicant, according to the Transvessolian Zombie Church of the Blessed Ring, does not belong to legal entities fulfilling the conditions of Article 2 of the Humanitarian Organizations Act in order to obtain this status. The transverse zombie church of blissful ringing complained of this decision, the Administrative Court returned to the Ministry for re-decision, mainly in terms of procedural and substantive decision-making. Now for a little while, I will then tell you what this seven-member commission led to the fact that this organisation did not receive the status of a humanitarian organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Ferruga, will you request a supplement to your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u166	Thank you. I would like to hear the Minister's final answer to this question of mine. In fact, I am only interested in how we can come up with such initiatives – okay, it is clear to me that these NGOs must be registered, they must have some evidence and I do not know what, but nevertheless – I would like to hear from the Ministry if you are preparing for the establishment of a health ambulance voucher, some regulation, which would then allow others to make decisions, and which would allow them to say as easily and as quickly as possible as possible and as quickly as possible operationally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u168	I will say again: there are no obstacles to establishing a pro bono ambulance. The Ministry in this respect has no powers here. The Ministry of Health has this role, in accordance with the Humanitarian Organizations Act, that if one of these founders or associations wants to be granted the status of a humanitarian organisation, then this commission works. In this case, as I have said, the pro bono ambulance has been operational since 2016, I think since March. It was one of the founders, the Transvessolian Zombie Church of the Blessed Ringing, who asked herself to be granted the status of the humanitarian organization, and that was decided by the seven-member commission. But let me just tell you for a moment why the commission didn't decide to grant her this status as a humanitarian organization. Because despite our repeated requests to tell us or deliver what health programs and work plans they have to justify the status of the humanitarian organization, in the letters we received from the Czevessoljska Zombie Church of the Blessed Ringing, we have received that, I will quote, “House of Goodness, one of the constituents of the organizational unit of the Czevessoljska Zombie Church of the Blessed Ringing Church, where are the transverse writers with regional scribblings, overseas missions, labor, farm cooperatives, overseas artists, bells with holy bells and blessed scruples.” I tell you, I've asked you twice or three times to complete these applications. And then we were informed that in the context of the charitable and subordinate accompanying activities, they have registered activities: reproduction of plants, production of milk, pigs, production of spirit drinks, please, manufacture of underwear, production of mattresses, brushes and so on. I apologize, but indeed, with all due respect, we asked, and when we asked what would happen from the health programme, we were told on the one hand that they were implementing the programmes of the reference ambulances, the patronage service, the day care of the elderly and disabled children, shelters and asylum-seekers. And you know that the reference clinics are in health homes and in these. Indeed, it has not been possible substantively, although the Commission will now meet again, it is likely to call them again on the programme and decide again. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec will ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u170	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, other ministers, ministers, colleagues, colleagues, all of them a good greeting! With the end of the term coming up, I dared to look at this government's coalition contract in the field of health. I must say that she was very interesting, on two sides of A4, quite specific, I must admit, unlike a number of other departments, but I have two points to point out. For the first time, whether things are not realized or for the second time, they are realized so that they are worse for a Slovenian patient. Here you are saying: “the financial sustainability of compulsory health insurance”, we know what the situation is, “the abolition of voluntary supplementary health insurance”, we know what the situation is, “public procurement”, we probably don’t even know what the actual situation is, “the delimitation of public and private”, nothing happened, “the determination of the criteria”, we know that there’s not much going on, at least those who know what’s going on in this area with emergency centres, satellite emergency centres, dispatch centres and so on, “the granting of concessions”, completely missed, “the management of public health institutions”, lying bottomless, “corruption, zero tolerance”, and we all know what’s going on. In short, Madam Minister, it is obvious in the field of health that this mandate is not only the mandate of lost opportunities, but unfortunately for Slovenian patients even worse, so allow the distinguished minister to have some specific questions. When the Prime Minister announced his resignation on camera, he said that four of the five reform laws had been passed. Both me and the entire Slovenian public – I sat in the studio that day with Mr Loredan, who wondered for himself what those laws were. If doctors do not know what reform laws have been passed, how should Slovenian patients know? I want to know: What reform laws have been passed? Second thing. Yesterday we were informed that only 5 million advisory contracts were signed at your ministry. In this regard, I am interested in: What was done for these 5 million people in your ministry or how many people in the ministry did you forgive to get back these 5 million you outsourced to people who are part of the problem, not part of the solution we know from history? Finally, two more matters that I will discuss further below are waiting types and arrangements for the ratio of emergency centres, satellite emergency centres, helicopter emergency medical care, dispatch centres and emergency medical care. I have already asked you some written questions here, and I regret to say that there is nothing concrete about this area. So much for the intro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u172	Your Honor, thank you for asking. I am pleased to see that you have looked at the coalition agreement, but you may find that, apart from the Health and Health Insurance Act, which was not adopted in three years of long-term coordination, 100 % has practically been realized. And I'm going to write it down, even though I have to say that you didn't even announce this question, but still, that's why I'm going to answer what I can. You said that “the financial stability of the financing of health care” was introduced in this assembly by the Law on Medical Services and the Intervention Act for the Rehabilitation of Public Institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. In order to remedy past debts and debts, this government has committed €136 million, and as you know, the rehabilitations are ongoing and all hospitals are, 15 of them, obliged to prepare very detailed rehabilitation programmes. Some, among them I can mention Izola General Hospital, are practically operating positively under the current director's mandate all these years. Furthermore, in agreement with the Ministry of Finance with the amendment of the Medical Service Act, 80 million discharges of funding from the Institute of Health Insurance have been carried out, namely those services which do not belong to the financing of our rights or compulsory health insurance services. As you know, there were already 23 million transfers in last year, 40 million in this year, 60 in the next year and 80 million in the next year. This would relieve health treasury expenditure, which is part of the financing of the state budget, in which the time of the crisis was unselectively transferred to the health treasury and from the revenue from our services. Further provision is made for further transfer of funding to so-called scientific research activities or tertiary under the proposal of the CFSP-1. Therefore, even in the CFSP proposal-1, the structure and method of financing health expenditure is substantially changing, in the long run, where this percentage rises to 7% from the lowest share of the budget from the current 3%. At the same time, as you mentioned, in this proposal, there is also the abolition or transformation of supplementary health insurance, which would generate at least 50 million additional resources due to unnecessary operating costs in this insurance, which is actually not the right insurance, because we know that each service as a percentage is paid from our contributions and from the supplementary. Furthermore, the distinction between public and private under the coalition agreement. This has brought in the novels of the Health Activity Act, which has also been coordinated for almost three years. There has been as much variation as in the current situation due to the lack of doctors in the Slovenian space, because we know that we are below the average of a thousand inhabitants. A transparent legal way of granting work permits and concessions has also been introduced. These will no longer be and will depend, not on the desires of individuals, but on the needs of the population. Thus, this coalition requirement has also been met – the granting of concessions in a transparent manner. There's been a lot of talk about corruption. And I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Lisec, will you request a supplement to your answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u174	Thank you. As a matter of fact, the Secretary-General, what you've done, you've done a bad thing. You have always boasted, for example, about the Law on Patient Rights, how this great, solution is very necessary, a top-notch product. But we see in practice, at least those who unfortunately go to a secondary and tertiary level, how stupid this thing is. Regarding concessions, today's article, a private pharmacy filed criminal charges against the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana for issuing an alleged illegal consent to one of the pharmacies. Let us leave aside the management of public institutions, where the vast majority of this bottomless bag was created in your mandate. Let us let corruption and public procurement do nothing. I'm going to go on those two key issues that I didn't solve in the first part. That's the definition of criteria. In 2015, when establishing emergency medical care, you said: “When the dispatch centre is established, satellite emergency centres will be established immediately after that.” Nothing has been done to date except that three quarters of what was said to be done within three months was done by the dispatcher center. He's not talking about satellite emergency centers, he's not talking about satellite emergency centers. Here I have a list – waiting for ambulances and operations, a respected minister who is the fruit of your work; and not your predecessors. All awaiting first review for 13 specialist outpatients, 1. 1. 2017 is a 27 % increase relative to 1. Ten. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. All waiting for 48 services, 42% growth in your mandate; of this over the allowed waiting period, 83% increase. Dear Minister, these are real things that do not come from my head, but from the data of the National Institute of Public Health. Madam Minister, once again, I regret to note that this mandate in your field has made it possible for many skeletons to fall from the closets in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Minister Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u176	Thank you. Unfortunately, it will be too little time to answer everything and show graphs, because these are data that are not used properly, the rule; but I will not let go of why. Perhaps only with regard to the published information that the Ministry of Health has given EUR 5.6 million to the Advisory Contracts in this mandate; this is not the case. The advisory contracts themselves were 278 thousand and something. The fact is that, given the definition given by the Ministry of the Interior, 18. 9. 2014 where it says that advisory contracts are all those contracts which by definition include intellectual services. But what was involved in this issue at the Ministry of Health? All design for all investments in all hospitals and the entire public network in Slovenia in this mandate. All building controls that we are obliged to carry out in accordance with the Construction Act, that we do not have any additional financial assets to make investments properly. These are the key investment issues. According to this definition of MNZ, colleagues also gave all these things. As I said, there are those, if you understand, who most probably understand, consulting contracts according to this data for EUR 278,000. But let me ask you something else about these waiting days, why I said so. When I took over the resort, these waiting periods were guided by the fact that at least 15% of the operators were not reported at all, not by operators but also by services. I want to show you two graphs of what happened; what you want to assign to me and what happened in January. True, on January 21st, the Law on Patient Rights began to be applied, which will show our waiting lists more systematically and transparently. And what happened in January 2018? We've detected a large number of orders, it's written in the waiting book, because 460 thousand orders were received and only 360 thousand passengers were issued in January. But there are three reasons. Because time does not allow me, but here you can see what has happened in all these years.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Fox, will you request a procedural request? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u178	Thank you. I'll start at the end. The Minister said that there was not enough time to answer; therefore, it would be appropriate to discuss at the next meeting, if any, what I was asking, the current state of affairs in the field of waiting periods and other health events. Because it's obvious that the Minister has some of her own information, and here are the official information that is not my data. Once again, the source is the National Institute for Public Health, waiting for ambulances and operations. Catastrophe numbers, if we look at it, for a Slovenian patient. The second thing you were talking about, however, I hope that you are not serious about it or that I misunderstood, but now that the doctors at the primary level are obviously weak because they hope, they allow — until there is a new law forbidding them or criminally sanctioning them — to give orders for a secondary level. As far as waiting times are concerned, if there were no real criteria before, that is likely to be the future. As far as the Law on Patient Rights is concerned, it's absolutely urgent. Dear Minister, I, once again, regrettably saw how pointless the action was. You can write 16 stages of urgency, or go to a waiting room, such as an emergency center or a pediatric clinic, and you will see people there what a stage of urgency means to them. That it's not only that half an hour, it's a key problem that you've set yourself up, but there are many more problems that are open. Dear Minister, I think it is right to speak even more broadly about your context, about the management of public institutions, as you said, what has been done, what has been done in the area of corruption and public procurement. You said $5.6 million for advisory contracts. I'm looking at the Health Department again. Why is it that today your pioneer service, probably composed of several people, did not make an official denial or demand correction regarding this information? I come from public information. If you think that public information is not correct, under the Media Act there are all reasons to reject it. So don't be mad at me here, but at those of your associates who obviously don't know what the consulting contracts are or what the media have been asking. Madam Minister, once again, I think they should be told about the health situation. You've taken pictures of the openings of the emergency centres, not everything is arranged as it should be. When the Emergency Medical Service Regulations were adopted, you said that the dispatch service would be operational immediately, on the basis of this immediate helicopter emergency medical care; and we were just waiting for certain minorities and we would establish a regulation on satellite emergency centres that would soon be operational. This is a 2015 story, we are now in March 2018, and only on our knees can we ask when we will get satellite emergency centres; obviously under another minister or minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 20 March 2018, in the framework of the votes. Mr Jožef Horvat will ask the Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnikar and the Minister of Finance mags. Matei Vranictor Erman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister of Finance, distinguished Minister of Public Administration! The latest amendment to the Community Financing Act has set for this year the amount of funds to co-finance investments over a transitional period of 3 % in the form of grants and 3 % in the form of reimbursements for each municipality. This is my starting point in the oral question in which I want to solve the acute current problem of Slovenian municipalities with you. The heavy snowfall in February and early March resulted in an enormous increase in the costs of municipalities to carry out winter service activities. In most Slovene municipalities, which were exposed to extraordinary weather events, the cost of winter service was higher than 100% in terms of planned funds in the budgets of individual municipalities. The municipalities planned financial resources according to the costs of the last few years when snowfalls were in normal, average quantities. Their situation is now inconclusive because they do not have the financial resources to pay for the costs incurred in the winter service. On 13 March this year, the Club of Mayors and Councillors of New Slovenia addressed a written letter to the President of the Government, proposing that the Ministry of Finance should at least partially resolve the situation by turning 3% of the funds into grants as of this year in the 10th Article of the Law on Community Financing. We know that many municipalities of these so-called repayable funds, although they do not go into the debt quota, do not benefit, or only partially, because they have to be returned within ten years. This possibility has been given to the congregations in recent years, but some municipalities may not be able to recover in the future, so they prefer to quit. In the event that they listen to the municipalities, part of their own funds allocated to the municipalities for investment would shift the municipalities to pay the costs of winter service and cover the investments by means that would be converted by amending the law from refunds to grants. My question, Madam Minister and Minister: How will you proceed with the proposal I have presented? The point is that together we need to find solutions to the acute problem that the congregations face. Thank you so much for your willingness.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Minister Boris Koprivnikar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u182	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, Member, for the question. In short, the Minister of Finance can fill me in. We well know that the congregations have two sources, their own resources, and the average. They share about half the municipal income. For the performance of mandatory tasks, including winter services, the municipality has a certain average. From 2015 to this year it increased from 519 to 551 and in the following year almost to 560 euros. There are also grants from European projects available to municipalities. You yourself mention – investment funds, from the funds of coherent regional development, also have the possibility of very favourable or interest-free debt. These funds are targeted and know exactly what objectives they must be for. If these funds were to be channelled between the means to carry out the mandatory tasks of the municipalities, there would be an unintended use of funds. In doing so, however, we need to take into account our efforts to follow the actual cost of the congregations, and we are also amending the Law on the Financing of the Congregations. We must bear in mind that the congregations themselves plan their own spending; and we do not act in accordance with the cost principle. For example, in the case of miles of winter, the municipalities do not refund these funds, and in the case of difficult winters they do not have the basis for requiring additional funds. It is the planning of congregations that adjust to the opposite. And I know that this situation is currently difficult, but according to the 2016 final accounts, municipalities show almost 50 million surpluses. I think they have the resources to solve this situation. So much for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mag. Matthew Vranick Erman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for asking. Unfortunately, the problem is not as simple as it sounds. It goes on one side for the 34 million planned in the A balance sheet. This is an investment transfer which is intended for municipalities under Article 21 of the Law on the Financing of Communities; whereas reimbursements are planned in the B balance sheet. In line with budgetary planning, transfers between A and B of the balance sheet are not possible, which means, in other words, that if we want to increase the non-refundable transfer to investment investment municipalities, these 34 million euros should be disbursed elsewhere. I would like to point out that even after the final accounts for 2017, the municipalities show more than €25 million in surplus. And even when we talk about the investment expenditure of municipalities, investment expenditure under Article 21 of the Law on the financing of municipalities is only part of the funds allocated to the municipalities for investments. As an example, last year the municipalities received from the integrated budget of non-refundable investment transfers for a good 56 million and an additional nearly 54 million for European projects or European funds. This year, integral resources are planned at a higher level and in a significantly higher amount, European funds that can be used or transferred through the state budget to municipal budgets. We estimate that investment in municipalities is sufficient. I understand that in the electoral year we would want more for municipal administrations or mayors, but the trend in recent years shows that such transfers have improved. This will have to continue in the future. However, in the state budget, when we talk about transfers from the state budget, we need to deal with all recipients of funds from the state budget in a balanced way. Such a move in relation to the congregations would mean that someone else’s 34 million should somehow be taken away. However, in the case of the coverage of unforeseen costs, as well as the state budget, municipal budgets should also plan reserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u185	Ambassador Joseph Horvath, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for your time, Madam Minister, Mr Minister. We all know that municipalities have less and less funding available for development projects. Now I am not going to talk about the implementation of the operational programme of cohesion policy, because we are going there in a very bad way. There are virtually no investments in the municipalities; well, perhaps for the city’s municipalities. In small, rural municipalities, look on the ground, there is virtually no investment, as most of the budget expenditure is intended for the implementation of statutory obligations. The biggest problem is that over the last few years, many Slovenian municipalities have been in a very unenviable position because of the headship, which is significantly lower than necessary. Many municipalities are thus left with the sole source of investment only for the co-financing provided for in Article 21 of the Law on the Financing of the Communities. But this year we are really talking about an enormous increase in costs due to the implementation of the winter service. Mr Minister, what you said was that municipalities don't return money during the miles of winter; of course, but they don't transfer it to the next year. We both know how the budget works. I want to know: According to the letter I mentioned to the Prime Minister of the Government, will you inform the congregations that you will help them? In particular, you, Minister Koprivnikar, are also the minister responsible for local self-government. I am surprised, however, that we have always received the information provided by Members, and I apologize for the fact that the congregations still have too much surplus. Ask the mayors why this surplus is. Moreover, Minister Koprivnikar, if I have correctly heard, you have said 50 million surpluses, Madam Minister of Finance 25. [[advertising from the hall]] Okay, but the numbers are different. Maybe I was too naive; I was hoping that only a small amount of government attention would be given to solving the acute problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u187	Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u188	Thank you for this opportunity. I think that's what you're listening to. This is shown by the actual state of the congregations. Debt is declining, as you say, investments are gradually increasing. The agreement referred to above for co-financing in 2018 and 2019 also has 3 % of grants and 3 % of refunds. In 2020-2021, they have 4% of grants and 6% in 2024 and beyond. A precise model has also been agreed with the municipalities as to how this share of grants can be increased if this economic situation is actually allowed. At the same time, I must also point out that the debt decreases, that the structure of municipal finances improves, that revenue increases. The situation in the congregations is not so bad that it goes on for the better. That's exactly why we don't think it's as catastrophic as you're talking right now. It is true, however, that the amount of precipitation is high this year, but this is not a natural disaster, which may also lead to an apology for some additional funding. This is just one of the many tasks that municipalities carry out with their own directors or through contracts with subcontractors. That's all I can explain. But the fact is that the financial situation of the municipalities is gradually improving as we look at both investments and surpluses, and in particular the indebtedness of the municipalities is decreasing.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u189	Minister of Finance Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u190	Thank you very much for this opportunity. To what has already been said by the Minister of Public Administration, I would like to add further information on the investment expenditure of municipalities in last year. The final accounts of the municipalities for last year have already been selected and the municipalities have recorded investment expenditure of 510 million and a half in their budgets. 510 million and a half. Therefore, it will not hold data that only an investment transfer, which amounted to about 30 million euros last year, remains for investment municipalities. And it must be said that the municipalities are making use of this return on investment transfer. It is true that not a hundred percent, but more than 20 million of this money was distributed or spent last year. This year's data are not yet collected from all the congregations, but the congregations are planning for a billion investment expenditure, for a billion dollars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u191	Ambassador Joseph Horvat, you have the floor for a procedural proposal for the National Assembly to hold a discussion on the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mr President of the National Assembly. I thank the Minister and the Minister for the figures and data provided. In a way, you took me, and the Slovenian public, away from the problem. I was talking about an acute problem, it's an enormous increase in the cost of winter service. I must say, I was really expecting a little more preparation, but nothing is lost yet. You have a lot of time and a lot of paper to respond to the invitation of the Mayors and Saints Club of New Slovenia with a solution; not with statistics, but with a solution. As I see, the General Secretariat of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has just resigned this call from our club of mayors and saints to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Public Administration. I'm glad that investments are about half a billion euros, I'm glad. But the problem is always when we look at the Eastern cohesion region and the Western cohesion region. The problem is that the city’s municipalities are financially strong; smaller and rural municipalities are weak here. There is a problem here, and that should be heard more. We will probably never see the congregations having such a strong negotiator with the government, as strong a negotiator as Mr Strucklel. I'm not gonna say it wasn't a problem finding 250 million, but it just happened to be 250 million. When we talk about congregations here — and the congregations are all of us — each of us lives in a congregation. Now some may also feel that the problem is that we have too many and too few congregations. No, we don't have too many, and they're not too small, let's say in Austria. But you know that we've always had quite a heated debate when we talked about the so-called chieftain and we found that the chieftain is practically not enough for the municipalities to fund those tasks they get through the law. Thank you both for this dialogue, but I really look forward to what you will respond to the invitation of the Mayors and Saints of New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u193	Now I must most likely use the same valet as my colleague Jurša. I gave the floor to call for a general debate. I didn't hear that. [[advertising from the hall]] It's not exactly the default. We're not gonna vote on this, okay. We know there's never gonna be a debate. [[advertising from the hall]] No, you don't. And we didn't do anything there either. Vice-President of the National Assembly and Ambassador Primož Hainz, you have the floor to request an answer from the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mrs Irene Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to ministers and ministers! Until Mr Chuš arrived, there were the same number of ministers and Members here. Well, now it's getting too high; it won't be long either, I see. I believe that the question for the last session is whether it makes sense to ask a question or not because we cannot solve all the problems that are in life. But in the end, I decided to ask a question that people have been referring to the Group of Members for some time. This is a matter of high-level owners. This is not a question of my parliamentary district, Vrhnika, Log, Dragomer and Borovnica, as my colleague asked me, but it is a question that touches this congregation or this constituency because it is a common question. The issue of high-level owners in relation to building managers is that they are required by law in a large number of apartments. Sometimes it feels like I share it myself because I know the thing from the inside that the reserve fund managed by the manager is somehow alienated from the people. It's not real control. It feels like the manager's doing what he wants. He's a signatory, he's the one with it. People often say: We have invested in something that we have not agreed on, and then additionally sometimes this money simply does not exist. This has been described in newspapers, Lenart, Postojna, Atrium Celje, and other examples suggest this. The simple question is asked, Mrs. Irena Majcen: How can we control or protect high - ranking owners from those who do their jobs improperly? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u195	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u196	Dear President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, honourable Member and honourable Members! Mr Primož Hainz, honourable Member, thank you for the question. The Real Law Code provides that level-level owners in buildings with more than eight individual parts and more than two owners are obliged to establish a reserve fund. The assets of the reserve fund are defined as the total assets of the floor owners managed separately by the manager in the special account. If one of the floor owners fails to contribute to the reserve fund, it is incumbent on the manager to invite him in writing to pay or recover. The Housing Law, which is the law that belongs to the Ministry of Environment and Space, provides in Article 43 that the senior owners in the contract for the provision of administrative services may provide that the manager of the reserve fund may only raise funds together with one of the top-level owners. In practice, there are few such requirements; in multi-housing buildings, the consensus of high-level owners is often questionable, is not achieved, and in this work the owners themselves can do a great deal. In addition, the Housing Law has a number of safeguards regarding the reserve fund and the conduct of the company. Under Article 42, the administrator must ensure that all payments to the reserve fund are kept in a special transaction account. If the manager makes payments to the floor owners through his transaction account, he shall, within 10 days from the payment of each floor owner, take the reserve fund’s assets to the reserve fund’s transaction account. If the manager acts contrary to Article 42 of the Housing Law, the apartment inspector may also deepen it. The law further specifies the way in which the reserve fund is managed, as well as the intentional use of funds, limits enforcement to the reserve fund's assets, since enforcement is only permitted for payment of legal obligations entered into in accordance with the prescribed purposes for which the reserve fund may be used. The assets of the reserve fund are also not part of the manager's bankruptcy weight and cannot be cut off by creditors' administrators in the enforcement procedure. The manager is obliged to report to the floor owners on the state of the reserve fund assets; each floor owner must submit a monthly statement of costs, including the state of the reserve fund for the building. In accordance with Article 65 of the Housing Law, the administrator must once a month provide each floor owner with access to contracts, bookkeeping documents and the status of the multi-household reserve fund. If the manager violates that provision, the resident inspector may raise the costs of the procedure against him. The administrators shall be subject to all controls generally applicable in the Republic of Slovenia. The audit of the financial transactions of a particular entity shall therefore be carried out by the audit organisations authorised. The audit may also be ordered if it is not prescribed or expressly required by law. Important owners may appoint a Supervisory Board, which is the right of senior owners, whose main task is to supervise the work of the manager, must be aware that the owners are primarily responsible for their property or property. The vast majority of managers carry out their business properly and in accordance with legislation and contracts concluded. Cooperation with managers without major shocks and dissatisfaction runs in facilities where the level-holders are active and responsible, regularly attend the assemblies of the high-level owners, appoint supervisory committees and regularly check and supervise the implementation of the decisions adopted. More, perhaps, in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u197	Vice-President of the National Assembly and Ambassador Primož Hainz, you have the floor to explain the request.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u198	Thank you very much for your answer. I expected a similar response, but in practice they tell or write the following. For the first time that inspection services do not provide; for the second time, the question of practice is indeed sometimes a little I know that the key owners of the control council have, but this is so, the assembly of tenants gets, then they are inconclusive, then they convene another meeting. [[…]] This meeting is then usually somewhere between Christmas and New Year's Eve, so only those things that the manager really agreed to come in for half an hour; and they agree that everything is fine. I know it's a question of practice, not a question of theory, but of course. Do you have any other ideas on how to protect yourself from high-level owners? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u199	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u200	Thank you. If, for any reason, the senior owners of managers offered on the market do not trust them, they shall have the opportunity and the right to organise themselves as a community of owners. In such a case, they shall be managed by themselves as a legal person and may open an account in their own name and thereby avoid any risk associated with the external administrator. But this is hard to reach in cases where there is no conclusion at these gatherings. Property, on the one hand, brings some benefits and, on the other hand, property is binding. Unfortunately, there is no law to prevent any criminal acts committed by some administrators, such as Atrium Celje, Lenart, Postojna. However, when drafting new housing legislation, we want to lay new foundations, which would make the level-holders more secure, while at the same time having greater responsibility for managing their property or co-ownership. The reflections are aimed at establishing a legal entity of the community of grass-roots owners who will be able to open a transaction account at their own expense to raise the funds of the reserve fund for its multi-entity building. The funds will be managed by a Community representative who will be one of the top owners or administrators if the owner community so decides. It is true, however, that this draft will go to a public debate in the autumn and that some fresh idea may come from users. Aware of this problem, we wanted to change the Housing Law more in a small part, but it was these associations of top-level owners that were unhappy with the solution, so there were no interventions; we withdrew those solutions. The task remains open to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u201	Ambassador Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc and Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u202	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I would not, but I have to; first, I will be rewarded with the reply of the Minister, who gave it to Ambassador Ferruga regarding the pro bono outpatients in Nova Gorica. She let me down deeply because she couldn't even pronounce the name of a charity that took care of poor patients instead. The Court has thus determined that this charitable organisation has been discriminated against by your Ministry. Please don't be so demeaning and ignorant and ask questions. But let's move on to my question that I'm going to ask both of you. You know that on 7 February, we had a 39th urgent meeting of the Health Committee, which addressed the topic of legalisation of cannabis, use and production for medical purposes, is said to be unrealised conclusions by the Ministry of Health. We have already unanimously instructed the Ministry of Health, on the Committee on Health as the Ministry of Labour in October 2016, to prepare appropriate grounds for the treatment of cannabis as a medicinal product and appropriate legal bases for the production and processing of cannabis for medical purposes in Slovenia. Of course, the Ministry is unable or unwilling to implement these measures. And in the light of that, we have invited certain medical professionals, such as Dr. Neubauer from the Paediatric Clinic. Just today, read what good results they have in the treatment of epilepsy. Of the 80 patients, only half improved, 20% of the children had no more seizures. Prof. Dr. Červekov, the oncologist who made the treatment guidelines, and Dr. Nolimal. I'll stop here. At the outset, Dr Nolimal stressed that he was giving an opinion on his own behalf and not on behalf of the authority in which he was employed, which was the National Institute for Public Health. This is also evident from the magnetogram of the session. Although attending the meeting in his spare time and on his own behalf, he was involved in a mobbinga with the threat of termination of his working relationship. And that's why I'm interested because my minute is running: Are you aware of the developments at the National Institute for Public Health and the pressures exerted on employees? Do you agree with the position of the National Institute for Public Health that public servants working there may not represent positions which are not in line with the official views of that body? Are you aware of the conduct of the National Institute for Public Health, which prohibits public servants from working professionally in areas for which they are specialised? Are similar practices with pressure on public servants also implemented at your Ministry of Health? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Minister Boris Koprivnikar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u204	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Member! I'd like to start with just one framework, and then I'll be more specific. I will not judge the content itself; but the fact is that in public institutions, labour relations and rights are regulated by the Labour Relations Act, not by official legislation. As official legislation applies to state authorities and local authorities, the Public Servants Act applies here, that is the difference. Staff law does not regulate the expression of an opinion in its free time or outside its time, the law in question is not governed by it. Of course, we must respect the constitutional right to freedom of expression, which gives each individual the right to express his or her opinion. However, the law provides that a public servant must comply with the rules of his field, collective agreements, employment contracts, general acts and codes of ethics in the performance of his work. The worker must take into account, as the Labour Relations Act states in Article 34, the requirements and instructions of employers in respect of compliance with contractual and other obligations of the employment relationship; and in Article 37, the worker is obliged to refrain from any conduct which, depending on the nature of the work performed by the employer, is materially or morally harmful and which could harm the employer’s interests. This is a general legal framework. However, I cannot judge the specific content that you have given, because I do not know what the possible internal acts or instructions and the employer's commitments are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Minister Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u206	Thank you. Allow me, however, to reply in the introduction to a few sentences on what honourable Member Violet Tomić said and what she does not quite hold. With regard to Mr Ferruga's previous question, I have only mentioned the facts. We have not received the reasoned content despite repeated calls to grant this organisation the status of a humanitarian organisation. And for the ambulance's bono, they work and they're the founders of others. With regard to the second question, too, this. The Ministry and the Government have adopted an amendment to the regulation to ensure that in all those cases where medical indications exist, some of you have also mentioned the possibility and doctors prescribe the use of hemp or, if you want, hemp sticks on prescription. As I know, since I spoke to the doctors of the Oncology Institute, there is no problem that, say, patients get it on prescription when treating cancer; and so is probably for children with seizures, as you mentioned. At least I have information because I asked doctors to prescribe these prescriptions where necessary, which is provided by a government regulation; what the Ministry has prepared and adopted. Now to answer the specific question of what was going on at this meeting of the Committee of the National Health Council. You all know that the National Institute for Public Health is an independent public institution run by a director who organises, coordinates work processes, and is also responsible for the professionalism, business and legality of the work of the institution. The National Institute is, of course, obliged to respect, as my colleague Koprivnikar mentioned, all applicable labour legislation, in accordance with this to prepare appropriate internal acts or rules of conduct for its employees. For this reason, as Minister of Health, I cannot be defined for specific internal human resources procedures at the National Institute of Public Health because it is an independent institution. However, I am in favour of being able to answer your esteemed question, asking for explanations or for written answers from the National Institute for Public Health. Now let me read and quote their answer. But since I'm obviously running out of time, I'm going to say their answer, quote it in part two.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mrs. Violeta Tomić, will you request a further reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u208	Thank you, Minister. We're not gonna waste time on things we'll never meet. At least we should say the name of the humanitarian organisation correctly. You were talking about the rivets on the recipe. We don't talk about that either. I'm afraid we're not going into the details. I would like to know in particular – Dr. Nolimal received a warning about the termination of the employment contract. This warning states that a public servant, I quote, "by means of presentation during the presentation of a personal opinion, violated his contractual and other obligations in the working relationship." In short, he violated them by giving his own opinion, which is different from that of the employer. They also gave him a written warning in legal instruction that, if a written warning has been given within one year, the contract of employment will be terminated for false reasons. Here again I would like to ask the Minister of Public Administration exactly: Is it illegal for public servants to have a different opinion and position from that of the employer? Is the participation of public servants in discussions, meetings and round tables from their professional field in their own name illegal in their own time and may be the reason for the termination of the employment relationship? This is of interest to me; however, I could mention many more of the bullying of all those who try to provide patients with medicines from, again, natural cannabis. We don't even talk about synthetic canabinoids, because studies show they don't even help to be harmful. Domestic production and processing is a topic that we have adopted on this committee; however, this time we are talking about labour infringements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Maybe Mr. Koprivnik first? No, no, no. Good. Mrs. Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u210	Thank you for your word and for the additional question. I will now, in fact, allow, quote the response of the National Institute for Public Health related to this issue on which we have asked for an opinion. I quote: “We have received your questions regarding the organisation of work and communication with the public at the National Institute for Public Health. We strongly reject the allegations that the National Institute for Public Health is exerting pressure on employees. The National Institute for Public Health shall organise work in accordance with the tasks performed at the highest professional level and in accordance with the internal acts governing working procedures. Public servants who are bound by the National Institute for Public Health may, on their own time, deliver their own opinions in the same way as all other citizens, irrespective of whether their personal opinions differ from that of the employer, in this case the National Institute for Public Health. The latter is not normal, as the expert opinions of the National Institute for Public Health are created by the most qualified experts in the individual field and therefore represent a credible source for other employees. However, if they refer to the National Institute for Public Health when communicating with the public, they must respect the internal act, this is the instruction on the provision of information to the public, which has been in force since 4 January 2016. The National Institute for Public Health has in no way banned any of its employees from work, but they are adequately allocated to individual professional areas of work for which they are trained and in line with the guidance of the National Institute for Public Health. The spectrum of tasks performed by the National Institute for Public Health as the only health tertiary institution in the field of public health is extremely broad; only a certain number of professionals are adequately trained; therefore, it is a difficult task for the National Institute of Public Health to organise the work properly.” This was the answer to the specific questions posed to the National Institute’s management. And also the answer to the question of staff at the Ministry of Health. Let me say, as has already been mentioned, that all civil servants are committed to the labour law and to the code of conduct of public servants, as explained earlier by colleague Boris Koprivnikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mrs. Violeta Tomic, please, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u212	Of course we have to discuss this. There must be something missing at the National Institute for Public Health. In the beginning, Dr. Nolimal said that he would give his own opinion and not the opinion of the organization in which he was employed. And that's supposed to be a violation. Minister Koprivnikar said that everything is okay if you have your own opinion differently, it's allowed. However, from where, then, a reminder before the termination of the employment relationship with the threat that, in the event that a further breach of the contractual obligation occurs within one year of the service of a written warning, the contract of employment will be terminated for false reasons. There's obviously been no violation here, and there's something wrong. Now you tell me how this Parliament should work if Members refer to the committees to which we invite the experts who are being punished for saying their expert opinion. Members would like to know their opinion, because we are not all medical experts. And after the committee has decided unanimously and ordered the Ministry to do so and to do so, the Ministry peacefully ignores the legislative body and says, "No, we will not do it in our pocket." And if I go further, the two coalition partners SMC and SD will prepare a legislative proposal to regulate this issue, we, the opposition Left, can only nod because we know that we are always rejected. And your ministers, the coalition ministers, say, "No, we're not going to do this." What are we going to do in this national convention?Oh, my God! What government does; of course, it has fallen now, but it should probably have been four years ago; why Members of the National Assembly, forgive us for allowing ourselves to be bullied, wasting our time, experts, employees, citizens and all together. It's a farce. And it's because of this farce that I want to have a conversation and a debate at the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Mr Uroš Prikl will ask the Minister of Finance of Magi. Matei Vranictor Erman. Here you go, Mr. Prickl.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr President. A nice greeting for both Members of Parliament and all four Ministers! Dear Mrs Vraničar, this is the last time in the composition of this National Assembly, is conducting an institution for the question of Parliament, and statistics are expected to show that I have addressed it most of the time to you. This time I am talking about the New Ljubljana Bank, because of the second large state bank – the New Maribor Credit Bank unfortunately I can no longer. Recently, Nova Ljubljanska banka paid little less than €1.5 million on the basis of one of the judgments submitted by Privredna banka Zagreb and Zagrebačka banka due to the old foreign exchange deposits of the Croatian savers of the Ljubljana Bank, which were transferred to these two banks. The government has always advocated the position – and it is right to do so – that for any payments made by the New Ljubljana Bank on the basis of the judgments of the Croatian courts concerning the transferred foreign exchange deposits there is, of course, no legal basis. There is no legal basis for the European acquis and also for Slovenian legislation in this area. It makes me feel like I'm, you're not gonna believe, a whole bunch of different questions. Firstly, what could €1.5 million do with this money in favour of loans from natural persons, loans from legal persons? What could be done with this money if it was spent on social transfers or something like that? This way I can, I will use the parable, just shoot myself in the knee, because we know with such a measure, with such action to the New Ljubljana Bank in case of sale – and I would like to personally wish that such sale by the New Ljubljana Bank would not take place at the final stage – even lower the price and make a bad journey for the so-called privatisation of this bank. Knowing that there is a discussion in the National Assembly, as well as a broader discussion of the possibility of enacting a law that will regulate this area, the way to law is still a long one, and action must be taken earlier. I would ask you kindly, but without knowing what corporate governance means, I know what direct integration or indirect policy integration into economic operators means. Now, the question is: How does the Government, as the Assembly of the Slovenian State Holding Company, which represents the rights of the Republic of Slovenia as the sole shareholder of the New Ljubljana Bank, view the decision of the NLB administration to pay the amount? What does she intend to do in the future, what is her view that there will never again be similar situations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Madam Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u216	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for asking. We also certainly agree with the honourable Member that the issue of transfer of foreign exchange deposits is a hereditary issue to be addressed in accordance with the Agreement on Succession Issues and the Memorandum of Understanding concluded in 2013. Slovenia has been actively working to resolve this issue all the time, but unfortunately it has not been possible to reach an agreement between the successor countries in all the years since the signing of the Succession Agreement. I have already mentioned the Memorandum of Understanding on the basis of which Croatia has committed itself to ensuring that all legal proceedings before Croatian courts regarding the transferred foreign deposits are brought to an end by the final resolution of the transferred foreign deposits, but unfortunately it does not respect this international commitment. In view of this situation, the government reaffirmed its position so far in February that such judgments in Slovenia do not have a legal basis, are contrary to the Slovenian legal order and to the international treaties which Slovenia has concluded; and thus cannot be subject to enforcement. Of course, in this way we can only influence the situation in Slovenia, while in the case of enforcement in other countries it is necessary to act in different ways. And very intensive discussions are under way at the professional and political level at this time to ensure that such events, which are not in line with the Slovenian legal order, would no longer occur. The way is more, it is necessary to choose the one that will give a quick and concrete result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Uroš Prikl, will you request a further reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Minister, for trying to answer my question. Of course you've repeated some things. I must say and admit that I agree that the issue of succession and respect for the memorandum from five years ago is a problem for my vision and probably also for a wider vision. This cannot be the subject of executions either here or abroad. But I asked you very specifically: What does the Government intend to do, and how does it intend to look at and act in the future, especially to avoid such payments? We all agree, I, there are very few of us in this room, but if you ask the general public and those who get to know each other very well, they will be able to tell you that there is no legal basis here. Thus, in the field of international law, I speak for enforcement, and also for the payment of such payments, under quotations, penalties and in the field of Slovenian legislation. That's why I'm really interested: What does the Government think, and I will say very simply how does the government, as a congregation through SDH, prevent this from happening? Once it's a million, next time it'll be a few hundred thousand euros, and eventually it'll come together. And what are we gonna do about it? Like I said before, shush on your knees. The new Ljubljana Bank has been recapitalised with a large amount; we are talking in billions. It's certainly not right to cancel this money, it's taxpayers' money. If we are finally going to sell this bank, we are going to sell it at a good price; if we are going to keep it, we should, however, give it as a competent and appropriate bank to keep it in our hands and manage it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Matthew Vranick Erman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u220	Thank you very much. The government has so far not taken concrete action as the Slovenian National Holding Assembly; however, as a government, it has adopted a very clear position on the illegality of such decisions and has also informed SDH and the New Ljubljana Bank. It is very difficult to fight something that you basically claim does not exist or must not exist. However, I certainly agree with you that the state capital investment in NLB needs to be protected, and that is also what I have mentioned in principle in recent weeks, and we will be working in this direction in the coming weeks. In the interest of the protection of Slovenian interests, I cannot speak more about the measures until they have been finalized. However, since you were still specifically asking how this money could help people in social distress, let me mention once again that the payments made by Nova Ljubljanska Banka are not payments from public funds; while public funds are used to help people in social distress. For these funds, spending rights or opportunities are guaranteed in the State budget and are also implemented in accordance with the financial framework adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Uroš Prikl, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u222	Just so I'm not misunderstood. It is clear to me from what title are the funds for public transfers. I know this problem well enough, and I know it can't come directly from the state bank. But if this bank behaved more rationally, perhaps some credit would be more granted to the natural and legal person, some new job would be created, some housing problem could be solved as well, and there would be no need for so much pressure on the budget allocated to social transfers. I welcome this position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the only right thing to do to protect vital interests, Slovenian interests, where management of the New Ljubljana Bank, which I hope will remain in state ownership for a long time. However, I would strongly recommend not only that the matter remains in the position, at the declaration level; but that the leadership of the New Ljubljana Bank is also very clearly and visually determined or directed by the fact that there is no other term, or that there is no escapade in the payment of such or other judgments. However, since my question is one of the last and if there is also a debate on previous issues, there is probably not enough time for my question in this mandate, so this time I will not ask for a procedural proposal to have a general debate. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u223	Thank you very much. I understand, but it was pure abuse. Mr Andrej Čuš will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc and the Minister of Finance mags. Matei Vranictor Erman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, as many of us as we are here! Where do I start? I will not jump into the past myself, because it has been said enough, even at the last few meetings of the National Assembly. As far as I'm aware, the construction of the Ptuj Emergency Center has come before some obstacles. I must say that it seems to me that everything is already going on with the aim of not getting an emergency centre, even though such a political decision has been taken in this national assembly. As far as I am aware, we have collected financial resources from NGOs, economies, hospitals with their own resources, transfers of funds between the Ptuj Retirement House and the Ptuj General Hospital and land exchange, if we add to this the contribution of local communities, I think that only contracts and conclusions of municipal councils of the Municipality of Podolohnik and Destrnik are missing. We are talking about €15 000. If it's not possible to guarantee otherwise, tell me, we'll take the credit on the bank and we'll bet ourselves that it starts to build because we really have enough already. That's what I'm interested in. A few days ago, there was a meeting where you were attended by four members of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in addition to the two ministers to whom I ask the question, also Minister of Labour and Minister Žmavc, Ptujčan. Nothing was said in public about this meeting. Before continuing or in the second round, I would like to ask you: Can you tell us what the final conclusions of this meeting were for us to know how to organize ourselves? You need to know that people in the Lower Podravje are getting a little tired and say they're coming for us and they're taking us out. I think they're right if they do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u226	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Hearst. It is true, we are slowly becoming, too, tired of this dimension of the issue of the construction of the emergency centre. I made a promise, as you mentioned, in accordance with the methodology of July 2015. At that time, money was also provided in the then budget for the type of emergency centre, at a total of EUR 2.5 million; of which EUR 1.9 million was the Ministry of Health and EUR 584 thousand and several others were the General Hospital of Ptuj. I wouldn't repeat all history because I think we know her more than we do. Perhaps there is only one more fact that we received a new investment programme in October 2017, where the estimated investment value was little less than €3.4 million. From 2.5 million, this estimated value has now increased to 3.4 million. What have we been going around all this time? This was the problem with the participation of General Hospital Ptuj. At the original value would be EUR 585,000, in the second part, where the value is increased and where General Hospital Ptuj 850 thousand Euros cannot be attributed to the eligible costs of building the Ptuj Emergency Centre. You have jumped to help at the local level to establish an appropriate financial structure in order to finally confirm the conclusion of this revised investment programme, which must also be agreed by the government, because it exceeds the value of this investment by more than 20%. That's why I held a meeting at the Ministry of Health on the ministerial level, because this long yoke of snake has been dragging too long. Now I'm going to take a look at what we've come up with. Indeed, there was a colleague of Matthew, colleague Anja, Mr Koprivnikar sent the director of the Directorate, and Mr Žmavc. It was found that the surplus of income over the expenditure of the Ptuj House of Older Citizens could not be transferred to a budget of EUR 640 000, as estimated by the value of the land that the General Hospital Ptuj as an administrator would have waived in the management of the House of Older Persons because it is owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Only the controller would be replaced and therefore cannot obtain a payment transfer. That was the first conclusion that there was no legal basis. The second conclusion and the conclusion adopted at the same time is that, according to our information, there were not yet three co-financing contracts for municipalities that day; as I hear now, only two. I believe that if the problem is that they're going to make an effort to get those two more so that we can finally close the case, draw a decision and go to the government with this amendment. At the same time, it is necessary to say that, in addition to all the funds collected, the local community – EUR 300,000, the donation of economists – EUR 320 000, the share of the General Hospital Ptuj – little less than 230 000, will now have to be found by the Ministry of Health, in addition to the funds already reserved, only to find the missing portion of this surplus in the future, which is just over EUR 640 thousand. I believe and I heartily wish to receive the two contracts mentioned above, we practically have a decision to make very quickly and go to the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Hear, will you request a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u228	I have to say, I almost had a stroke, if I say so in my own way, not because of your response, but because of the facts you listed. Three years ago, two years ago and until now, as regards the transfer of financial resources from the surplus of the home pensioners to the General Hospital of Ptuj and the exchange of funds, everything was generally known and said that everything was agreed that there was no problem. We have said this several times, and I must say that the party who runs the Ministry of Labour has made this clear in the local press several times that they have made this clear and that this is their proposal. These facts that you've told us are putting a whole new dimension to this project, and apparently someone was holding figs in their pocket. I can't do anything but call the mayor of Podlochnik Municipality and the Corporal to arrange these contracts as soon as possible. The community of Circulana, if I'm not mistaken, did so days ago, at least according to my information from the public institute General Hospital Ptuj. But how do we get to those 640 thousand euros that we always thought we had? In view of the way we have done it; from the fact that the youth council has organised 090-line, not a conversation with girls, but a donation number; that we have raised funds from economists and could also list, until the municipal budgets fall, we have to do something because time is gone, Madam Minister. Tell me, you or Mrs. Minister of Finance: Where do we find these reserves now?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Mag. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Allow me a brief introduction, then my colleague will complete it. The Ministry of Finance shall monitor this project at all times from the point of view of its financial planning, in accordance with public financial rules. Such an investment must be planned in full and at the same time dynamics after individual years. In view of the projected consumption in 2018 and 2019, it was also confirmed at the meeting last week that the funds planned in the budgets already adopted were sufficient. Even if there had been a transfer of the surplus of revenue over the expenditure of the Ptuj House of Older Citizens to the state budget, this could not have been intended for this concrete investment, as these resources would only be needed in 2020. Since the budget for 2020 has not yet been adopted, but will begin to be prepared, this amount of 640 000 has been recorded as the necessary investment funds at the Ministry of Health and will also be provided under budgetary planning. The rest is a matter of technique and also the conclusion of this amendment of the investment programme, which will also have to determine in more detail the dynamics of the use of funds. Once again, in accordance with the public financial rules, funds must be provided year after year, according to how consumption is planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u232	The problem is that from the core investment programme to what we received, the October 2017 innovation, this is a few months ago, this value has increased by more than a million, a million 100. And something else needs to be said very clearly, for the C-type emergency centre, 2.5 million would be sufficient to measure the value. The fact is that General Hospital Ptuj wants to arrange more basement rooms, hopes and other things along with the novelties. This is in the light of the funds provided for in Type C, the cases have moved, we could have tendered long ago if we had held the original value. However, the final amendment came in October with these additional requirements and resources. This has complicated matters in the story, which will mean that further money will have to be provided in order to equip the first floor, which is now part of this project.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister and Minister, colleague and colleague! The Minister and I have already exchanged one written question on the subject of the demands of the inhabitants and residents of Šostjanje that, due to the presence of a large thermal power plant, certain matters are regulated in their place. That I do not raise the question of the rent that is separately discussed by the congregation; and, if I understand correctly, they are, together with the polluter who would be the first to pay it in some agreement, if I understand correctly, in connection with the replacement of building plots. We have at least two key questions here. One question is and remains: When will it, and why not, begin to prepare a law on the gradual closure of the coal mine, which is in fact a key law to ensure an appropriate, in particular environmental remediation intervention into space? On the other hand, what is more urgent and which is not related again to some strategic documents is the restoration of the ventilation shafts that are necessary to preserve or even allow for some serious quality of life in the congregation. This is related somewhere between the two is the issue of the arrangement of the banks of the Sořmir Lake and some of the stories mainly addressed at the moment by the Civil Initiative of Šostjanj as well as the local community of Šostanj Municipality. And it's not a question of neglect. Those who have been, and you have also been, Mr Minister, in Šostanje, know that the presence of the thermal power plant Šostjanj is an exceptional intervention in the landscape, the life of people, the quality of air; in particular it limits in the important part of the development potential, including tourism. It does not matter; as long as the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj or Holding Slovenian power plants and all connected plants act as socially responsible companies and can interact with the environment. This moment of this feeling, of course, is not and it is difficult for us to satisfy ourselves, including those who represent these people, with the answer that the rehabilitation of the vents will have to wait; they will have to live as they live. And it is also difficult for them to give up themselves or for all of us together to give up the development opportunities that the more accelerated targeting of the area's rehabilitation issue, which is degraded due to the presence of these energy facilities, should be addressed as soon as possible. And in this respect, since it is not a matter of specific strategic or legal changes, it can go into ongoing business; however, I would ask for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u236	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Thank you, too, Mr Jan Škobernet, for the question raised. It is true that in October we answered this question in your written parliamentary question. And here you have highlighted certain specific issues. Before I answer that, I'd like to say something in general. Of course, each facility with environmental impacts must operate in accordance with the environmental permits issued, under which conditions, within what framework, these environmental impacts must be located. I am convinced that TEŠ as well as the coal mine ensure this operation in accordance with environmental permits issued. Of course, this does not mean that these environmental impacts are not respected, but are within the limits set. The control itself of how these licensing provisions are respected is regulated under the Environmental Protection Act and then regulated by a competent inspection. Longer-term, longer-term issues are also dealt with by the Mining Act, which also regulates the conditions for issuing concessions. Under these concession contracts, it is also stipulated that the concessionaire must recover all damage caused by the operation of its facilities and facilities to third parties and that it must ensure that the opposite and definitive environmental recovery is carried out and address the consequences of the mining operations. The provisions of the Mining Act must also be respected. This is so, in principle, everything on paper is well arranged; in practice, I am also aware of a certain dissatisfaction. This is mainly due to the suspension of payments of agreed compensations or compensations for environmental burdens. With the Municipality of Šostjanje, I understand, there will be an agreement; unfortunately there is not yet a Velenje municipality, and I am sure it will. With regard to your question, when will this be regulated by some relevant law on closure? We are in the energy concept that was adopted in the Government, which has now been forwarded to the National Assembly, but I must say that I do not know whether he will see through these procedures any vote in the National Assembly to be confirmed; but we have included one sentence there to prepare everything necessary for the transition to a low-carbon society to be controlled. This means that we will also have to resolve all issues concerning the cessation of the operation of these fossil fuels-acting energy plants, including the Šostanj Termoelectrica and Velenje Coal. But this is some sort of thing that's planned for the future. We have indeed not dealt with this issue in this mandate, but I am sure that this will have to be put on the table in the next term and that the preparation of such legislation will also be sought. With regard to specific questions about the rehabilitation of ventilation shafts, the regulation of the shores of the Držmir Lake, unfortunately, I cannot give you a concrete answer here. I hope and hope that TES and Velenje Coal know this matter, because it is also about the ventilation shafts and the problem of possession and all that is involved. I hope that both companies will also be properly regulated on the ground, as they must eventually do in accordance with the signed contracts. But in more detail, of course, you can write [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferluga will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić. Here you go, Mr. Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u238	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the ministers, to the minister and to all the other supporters! I'd like to ask my dear minister: How does Dars, or what vision does Dars have in addition to the Ministry of Infrastructure, in the development of anti-terrestrial, non-snow protection projects on the coastal highway, which I have been a faithful user for the past four years? You probably also know well that at the section from the Lazy to Permanent there exist and are deadlocks due to the winding application. You won't believe it, there's also one of our two windmills. I'm making an appeal to you if you could, and it would be possible to do so as soon as possible, because in fact, a good part of the highway on that part will stop. It might be wise to start thinking about putting anti-aircraft protection on that part of the road. But I know, because it's been a struggle for 10 years, and Mr. German has been fighting on the Vipav highway, where this anti-aircraft protection is supposed to take place. Since this process has been going on for 10 years, I'm afraid it's going to be the same on this part. Please or I appeal to you, Minister, if possible on these sections that are loaded, you know this because this is a very large movement of trucks also from Luka Koper; from the Vipava side and the Koper side. I hope Dars has seen it for the last 10, 15 years and is about to make some sort of recovery. At least in a few sections, it's impossible to drive when these snowstorms start. There, too, the highway work itself cannot drive away the snow so quickly, for it is so reliable. There would certainly be more need for wind protection than anywhere else in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u240	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, too, honourable Member Mark Ferruga, for the question raised. This will be one of our last exchanges in this form as a Member and Minister. Most of the time we talked about the second track, and today we're going to have a little different problem. As I understand from the question raised, you are concerned or troubled here, and I agree with that, snowy applications on the coastline of the highway. Here the problem is different from what we have on the so-called Vipava leg, where there are really dangerous storm strikes and wind protection is done there. This is what we have been able to do in this mandate for a long time, and this has really been a long time, and we have managed to move this year to set up test fields with which we will verify on the ground these solutions, which have been made on the basis of accounting models. I am optimistic that on the ground too, in practice, this solution will be confirmed so that a final recovery can be carried out next year. The windshield on the coastline is not such a problem as to stop traffic, such as on a vipava leg. Traffic is not stopped due to wind, except in exceptional cases where, for reasons of safety, any intervention in the tunnel, Kastelec, traffic is shut down through the tunnel itself. This is in exceptional cases where a storm blows with a certain great force through the tunnel, in which case, due to the safety of any intervention in the event of an accident, this tunnel shall be closed. However, even in this case, as I have information, Dars will try to solve these issues by purchasing suitable ventilation equipment and so on. As far as snow is concerned, I am aware that this is a major problem, because these applications can also be in perfectly good weather when the rest of the highway is dry, land. And then you come to these areas where the wind refers to the dry snow from the nearby fields, and these applications can also be quite thick and dangerous. Many drivers may also be surprised because this is also happening in good weather. In these areas, Dars once had certain solutions for slowing the wind, stopping it, and putting the snow in front of the highway; and not in the driver’s seat. Then Dars removed this protection because he had no business with the owners of these lands. Today I also checked on Dars, where these issues are aware and will, I am counting on them, in the coming years and address them appropriately with some solutions to such obstacles, which will ensure the snow removal on the surfaces ahead of the highway, not on the highway itself. That's all I can tell you right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Čuš will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr. Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u242	Thanks again. Madam Minister, in the process of fighting to close trade on Sundays, at least I have learned something in person about social dialogue, dialogue between trade unions and in general about the way it is going. I have to say that personal experience is not the best, so I don't envy you. But I have to say, I don't care if I'm thinking a little bit, a little bit about the dilemma and the questions I'm having. In Slovenia we have the Minimum Wage Act, the minimum wage that is set. I do not understand that, on the other hand, we have in some collective agreements; for example, if we go to a collective contract for railway activity, under this collective agreement the minimum wage for payment of EUR 313 gross for the whole month of work is allowed. I want to know: How, then, is it even possible for the Ministry of Labour to register or approve such collective agreements, even though we know that they are completely contrary to the applicable Minimum Wages Act and, at the final stage, they are also contrary to the Constitution? Slovenia is supposed to be a social, legal state, but I do not see myself working for EUR 313 gross per month. I think it's tragic. The question of perspective is what pensions will be given to people who work for such low wages. However, if I continue and go to trade activity and Annex 3 there are also many signs and problems that have come about with this rotten compromise, which almost all Members have said is problematic; but since this is a social agreement, this must be taken into account. But we can see that after three months, merchants and traders are in a worse position, moving them from Celje to Bled, Maribor to Ljubljana, on Sundays, and could still be listed. Really amazing anomalies. They must sign declarations that they do not have children by the age of three, they do not count overtime, they do not pay Sunday work as they should. Whom can merchants and merchants turn to? Probably for inspection. So far, I have not seen any announcements to be taken seriously by the inspection services. I have heard, however, that the New Trade and Trade Union of Slovenia intends to file an action or legal dispute with regard to Annex 3 to this collective agreement this week. It's probably going to be at the Labour Court in Maribor. Unfortunately, I do not have all the information, but the only solution we are defending is that trade closes with the law; because we see that the annex that has been adopted has been compromised and has made more problems for everyone in the industry, and it is also not comprehensive and does not take into account the public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u244	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Thank you, Member of the Council, for the question which is my last and final question today in this term. If you ask me about the supervision of traders and the implementation of the annex to the collective agreement, it is the responsibility of the inspectorate. He will supervise the inspectorate, including for most of the activities he has the authority to supervise; unless otherwise provided for by law. At the same time, in addition to the laws, he is also responsible for overseeing the implementation of other rules, collective agreements and general acts. The Slovenian Labour Inspectorate carried out 7 000 649 inspections in the field of labour relations in 2017 and found a total of 11 000 363 infringements, of which 963 violations were committed in trade activities. The controls shall be carried out mainly in the form of exceptional controls which check the particulars of the applications received, without recording the reports by type of infringement alleged, since one application may relate to several infringements or to several areas. They don't have the statistics you mentioned. All applications received in respect of the subject matter will be dealt with and, in the case of infringements identified, act in accordance with the powers. All inspection services must provide a work programme and, on the basis of a risk assessment, provide for what their activities will be. On the basis of this risk assessment and in line with the inspectorate’s programming guidelines in 2018, they are also planning to tighten the supervision of employers in trade activities, so several findings regarding the annex you are mentioning with Annex 3 to the Collective Trade Agreement will be possible to make after the appropriate controls have been carried out. As far as the first part of the question is concerned, when you asked it, how is it possible that under collective agreements there are lower tariff classes; this is part of the problem. Collective agreements are within the competence of the social partners at the level of the industry and the fact is that minimum wages must be guaranteed to all. The problem with sub-tariff classes is that there are certain jobs where they can be systemised for different types of work to be equal. For example, 5, 6, 7 tariff classes are below the minimum wage and in the end they are all entitled to a minimum wage. And that's the problem with the generality of the salary scale. The fact is that the pay model itself on collective agreements, historically speaking, is not the best. However, the analysis showed when we looked at different other models, that the fact that the best pay models in Europe, when compared, are actually those where the unions are very strong and agree on a lot at the collective level. The social dialogue, as you yourself have found, has its specifics, but social dialogue is one of the foundations for the normal development of society without major conflicts in a consensual society such as Slovenia. It is clear, however, that it is important that each party entering this dialogue also bears part of the responsibility for the decisions taken; and that all of us, when we negotiate on any matter, are also aware of this. It's hard to judge what you've agreed to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u246	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dearly-respected Minister! Just before the parliamentary elections, this was only 7 March this year, when it was already too late to carry out the parliamentary procedure, you sent coalition partners to coordinate the Proposal for a Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. In the accompanying letter, you stated that you had only recently aligned it with the Economic and Social Council. Although you had been available for four years to draft the law, it was not until February 2017 that the draft law was prepared, without the coalition MPs having seen it before when it was given to public hearing. This week's proposal for a law came under attack in the public eye. It was not until the end of last year that the coalition partners received your proposal for the first time, but it was not yet coordinated in the Economic and Social Council. It was precisely because of the slowness of the Ministry's procedures in the drafting of the law that I proposed at the end of December to prepare, in due time, at least changes in the area of the abolition of supplementary health insurance; however, this has not been done. That's why I want to know: Why did you not prepare the termination of the supplementary health insurance in time, since it was a key project for your client? On several occasions in my oral questions, you have argued that all citizens, regardless of their property status, have access to compulsory health insurance rights. Of course it doesn't, so I ask you again: What will you do in the rest of the time to the elections to ensure that all citizens have access to compulsory insurance, including low-income persons, for example, with 332 euros of monthly income that cannot afford supplementary health insurance? I take it the patient's needs were neglected during your term of office. This is also proved by some data. The 2017 report on social justice in the countries of the European Union shows that access to health services in Slovenia has deteriorated according to the previous year and is even worse given 2011. Slovenia ranked 18th among the 28 countries of the European Union in 2017 with regard to access to health services. According to the number of years of healthy life, which shows the quality of treatment itself or access to treatment, Slovenia has become a poor 20th place among the countries of the European Union. The results for 2017 are lower than for 2008, 2011, 2015 and 2016. Because I'm running out of time, I'm asking for this part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u248	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Madam Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, Member and colleague of the government! Thank you for that question. Allow me to begin by telling you how coordination has been carried out with a really large and challenging Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. You all know that virtually no minister has ever been able to prepare him in Slovenia alone, but to bring him in line to the extent that we have managed. Let me say that we have been actively coordinating this law for 17 months. You rightly mentioned, the law was in public debate from 1 February to including 19 March. It must be said that before that, it was addressed by the top of the coalition, including certain professional colleagues, which then happened at least twice. As part of the public debate, in a month and a half, we have received more than 400 different responses and proposals from the general and professional public. In addition to these coordinations, reviewing these proposals, finalising the law itself, the law was also coordinated within the framework of the negotiating group of the Economic and Social Council, which was also appointed for these purposes for the first time at the ESS meeting on 21 February 2017, where we also presented a proposal for a law at this ESS meeting. The Economic and Social Council negotiating group met seven times during the period from 1 March to 11 April 2017, a bad month and a half. We practically had intensive coordination every week. I must say that unfortunately, the negotiating part of this group was not attended by employers until the last meetings. Further coordination with this Economic and Social Council Group was carried out in December 2017 and in January and February 2018. In addition to all these coordinations, the Ministry coordinated the law with a number of other stakeholders throughout last year and also at the beginning of this year. Let me mention here in particular the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the Institute for Health Insurance, the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, the Association of Pensioners' Associations and could also be listed. What is also very important is that we have had very long-term, painful coordination with the Ministry of Finance. You know that from our initial proposal to that law, which was in public debate, this medical compensation or supplement was very different; this has led to very intensive coordination with the Ministry of Finance for more than half a year. As far as the coalition is concerned, I have already mentioned that it was only March 7th. It was forwarded in December 2017, on the basis of that intervention, we also held a coordination meeting on 17 January, due to holidays. In this coordination, it was agreed to make written comments by coalition parties. When we received these comments, we re-examined the law, introduced some amendments, and then practically gave a copy on 7 March, when the ministry also responded to the comments received. However, I will continue to answer why we did not approach only with amendments to the law to abolish supplementary health insurance; unfortunately, this cannot be done for two reasons. One is substantive, namely that today we have paid each service in part, in a certain percentage of the compulsory insurance contributions; and partly of the supplementary insurance. Therefore, it is not possible to prepare only changes to the law in such a way that we do not at the same time change the whole part of the law relating to rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, please, you have a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u250	You must have heard too much. I mentioned that at the end of last year, we received your proposal to the coalition partners for the first time, but it has not yet been coordinated in the Economic and Social Council. I said the end of the year, not December 2017, which is the same. Why did I even address that question? Because the President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, blamed the coalition partner on the last edition of the Target for failing coordination, which, of course, is not true because he was unable to cut your coordination with the Ministry of Finance for a year. There was a major setback and also a delay. I would also like to ask you two questions about two things that I asked you at the previous meeting of the National Assembly. You have now argued that patients who cannot breathe without additional oxygen should have an electric appliance and also an oxygen bomb from compulsory health insurance. I checked again, that's not true. That's why I'm asking you again: Will you give an initiative to extend the rights of compulsory health insurance? This oxygen bomb is quite expensive and is a problem for those with no money to give 58 euros each month to have an oxygen bomb on them just in case. And the next thing I asked you about was: What have you done about the unethical medical treatment of a severely ill hospital in the Clinical Department for Pulmonary Diseases and Allergy UKC Ljubljana or at UKC Ljubljana? Then I asked you to check this out and ask for professional supervision of the work of both institutions. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mary Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u252	Thank you, too, for this additional question. I'll start at the back. I have already explained at a previous meeting of the National Assembly where I said that the personal physician is the one who determines what belongs to the health condition of the insured person who has respiratory problems within the framework of the right to medical devices; whether it is an oxygen concentrator, a respiratory pressure maintenance apparatus, a mechanical ventilation apparatus or a positive-pressure breathing support apparatus. I have to say, as promised, that I've put a search into the UKC, given the information you've given me, that it's a lady, aged 80, and a date. As soon as I get a response from the UKC, I will see the situation, if necessary, put in place appropriate measures or administrative controls and inform you. Just what I promised, I'll do. And with regard to what you asked, promoters and the extension of rights; they are being prepared and confirmed by the Assembly of the Health Insurance Institute, because today we have this in their Compulsory Health Insurance Rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u254	Thank you very much. I have not received all the answers to my questions, which is why I would also like to receive written answers to other questions that you have not answered. And at the same time, let me tell you that at least in these six months, as long as it takes for the new government to come, what to do for the patients as well. This means that these problems are solved to address the unacceptable long waiting lines that endanger patients; for an initiative that can be given to the Health Insurance Authority when it comes to extending the rights of compulsory health insurance. This is about the needs of patients, and this is exactly what I have missed all along in your work, that patients have been in the background all the time, while the aim of the healthcare system must be to maintain and care for human health. And it wasn't. I hope that these six months will not only be waiting for the end, but something will happen as well. However, I apologize for not making a procedural proposal. I hope that this will be useful, as I have just said, and that something will happen at the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u255	Thank you very much. This, of course, was not procedural, as you yourself have found. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u256	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, it is our honour to conclude the questions raised by Members in this mandate; what would be a better topic than the recording of the right to drinking water in the Constitution. At its 37th extraordinary meeting on 25 November 2016, the National Assembly announced the Decree declaring the Constitutional Act supplementing III. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and this act have also taken the last step in recording the right to drinking water in our Constitution. But this record alone won't bring anything. It is crucial that this record, this amendment to the Constitution, requires extensive legislative changes, which will also align the existing legal order of the Republic of Slovenia with the new 70.a. of the Constitution and thus secure water in practice. Although almost 16 months have passed since the adoption of this decree, as far as I understand and note, the Ministry has not yet made any concrete relevant legislative changes to regulate or adapt the constitutional amendment in the field. We know what the situation with water resources is, what water depletion means, and what the pressures are for the economic use of such water resources. And as we know, the changes in the Constitution have mainly gone in the direction of water and water, as such, to serve primarily the supply of drinking water to the population. That's why I have two very specific questions: When or until will the Ministry draw up appropriate legislation that will also protect water in practice? Does the Republic of Slovenia, at European Union level, actively advocate legislation, directives and so forth that all Member States will commit themselves to ensuring the right to drinking water for all European Union citizens and that the exploitation of drinking water resources for the purpose of supplying the population would be considered as a priority, i.e. before being used for commercial purposes?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u258	Mr. President-in-Office. Dear Member, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, thank you for the question. It is true that the right to water enshrined in the Constitution is an important milestone in the operation and supply of water to our inhabitants, so the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also established an interdepartmental working group to harmonise legislation with the record of the right to drinking water in the Constitution. The Ministry of Environment and Space also participates in this group. Surely we have an important part of the legislation that needs to be adapted to this amendment. However, this working group has encountered some open issues in its work related to the exercise of the constitutional right to drinking water, in particular with regard to Article 70a, paragraph 4, of the Constitution. These open issues relate mainly to the way in which drinking water is supplied to the population, since the record of direct and non-profit provision of public care by the State, but through the self-government communities, has a good impact on the economic services system, the protection of the environment, including the provision of drinking water to the population. And other legal areas, water management, local self-government, finance. As a result, this Interdepartmental Working Group addressed a number of views and questions to the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly, as the continuation of the work of the Interdepartmental Working Group depends on clarifying these issues and views. It has been quite a while now, and once the Working Group of the Constitutional Commission has received the answers to its views and questions, the Group, the other ministries and the ILO will be able to continue their work, that is to draw up appropriate legislation. In our ministry, we have already prepared some professional bases, they are in the drafting phase, and the final preparation would go after receiving this response. We have also joined the drafting of a completely new law on economic public services, including the law on environmental protection. These two laws were also created due to other needs, such as the Court of Auditors' audit, the commitments made in response to the reports. However, in the light of the Constitutional Law, particular attention should be paid in particular to infrastructure issues and price control in the provision of drinking water. Otherwise, in the Waters Act, the provision of drinking water is relatively adequately resolved, including awarded concessions. During a four-year or three-and-a-half term of office, we have granted several concessions, as well as in the past. For all concessions, there is a special article on the possibility that if the supply of drinking water is disrupted, this concession may also be terminated. There is no drinking water at all; in terms of whether it is the interest of someone to draw it or supply it to the inhabitants or what happens if there is a shortage; this is not a priority exercise. On the other hand, we are on the path of economic public services, concerned about how to do this in a way that is appropriate and consistent with the Constitution. At the level of the European Union, a draft Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the quality of water intended for human consumption was launched in February this year. This is a matter of recasting this Directive. The aim of the Directive is to regulate the quality of water intended for human consumption in order to protect human health from the harmful effects of any contamination of water intended for human consumption by ensuring that it is health-friendly and clean. Notwithstanding this regulatory framework, the proposal for a revised directive also touches on the issue of the right to drinking water. Here the Republic of Slovenia is included in the consideration of the draft directive in terms of water quality, as well as other issues covered by the revised Directive. The Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Environment and Space is therefore involved in this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, please, request a complete response.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u260	Thank you. I'd only have a few questions: How exactly did the fourth paragraph of Article 70a of the Constitution intervene in the field of economic public services? Where are these intersections, if I understand precisely in this dictatorship, that the State ensures that the population is provided through self-governing local communities directly and without profit? And second of all, I want to know: When did the working group on the Constitutional Law start working, and then when did it also address the working group of the Constitutional Commission? As it is said, in the Constitutional Law, in the second section, it was clear that the government must do so within eighteen months of its entry into force. In any event, this deadline would have expired at the end of the term of office, so I would have asked for this supplement. How does the Constitutional Law cut with economic services, and when did this working group start working?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u262	I am not trained enough to explain these concerns addressed by the group to the Constitutional Commission. I think that this can be answered in writing and we can deliver this answer to you. It would also be difficult to talk about the dates on which it was established; but I think it is a few months after the adoption of the law; and it is also a few months since this issue was addressed to the Constitutional Commission. Dear Member, Dr Matej Vatovec, I propose that we respond to you in writing and that the data be relevant and correct. I would say, however, that the law on public economic services in the environment is supposed to be a new law, ready for a new one. While we have participated in one part in the Economic Public Services Act, which is now being put into the procedure by the Ministry, it saves other components other than environmental ones. On the environmental front, however, it is our job to prepare a new law. We know that in addition to drinking water, public environmental services are also the care of residents when it comes to municipal cleaning facilities, waste collection, and waste treatment. We have the task of resolving all these issues with this law, especially when we are also talking about price policy; here I recognize that we are particularly being warned by the Court of Auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Dr. Tashner Vatovec, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u264	It'll be procedural. I request a general discussion at one of the following meetings. At the same time, I will ask the Minister, if possible, to answer these questions in writing. Once again, I would like to stress the importance of the Constitutional Law and Article 70, especially in the light of the fact that it has made a major breakthrough, that it has primarily defined water as something that should serve residents and residents, that drinking water is, of course, intended for drinking, cooking and supplying households; and that it is not market goods. Secondly, this public service is provided directly and without profit. As the mandate is thus to expire, the deadline set by the law itself for implementation or for reforming the relevant legislation, which will also play a key role, is also to protect the further depletion of water resources, in particular by limiting concessions. I think that, in the end of this mandate, it would be right to speak and in this way also provide some guidance for a magnetogram for possible next steps. However, we certainly expect concrete movements to take place at this time. I think it's something we can understand as some kind of running business. Water is absolutely liquid, but it is also very important and therefore I propose that this debate be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-19-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u265	Thank you very much. I thank the ministers and ministers for the answers they have given! I hereby end the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue tomorrow, 20 March 2018, by vote. I am also adjourning the 39th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. All of you have a nice night together!
