ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the second session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: I myself have been excused since 2 p.m.; Monika Gregorčič, mag. Andrej Shircelj, mag. Carmen Furman, just Bevk from 3 p.m. on, Dr. Franc Trček, Marijan Pojbič, Franz Breznik, Mateja Udovč until 12 noon, Victory Jelinčič Nobleni, Violeta Tomić, Nataša Sukić, Miha Kordiš and Jani Prednik. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 23. This is the annual report of the Ombudsman of Human Rights of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2017 on the 13th Annual Report of the Ombudsman of Human Rights of the Republic of Slovenia. The 23rd regular annual report was submitted to the National Assembly by the Ombudsman. I give the floor to the Ombudsman of Human Rights to Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer for further explanation and at the same time welcome you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and, of course, all guests invited, especially the Minister, all Secretary of State and Secretary of State! Today is exactly three months until the end of my six-year term. What does the Ombudsman say about the annual report he gives to the National Assembly? It points to the state of human rights, assesses how it is in the country. So this time it is 2017, although we are already somehow at the end of 2018, when the report for this year is well written. What's the stat? Some say that statistics are not the most important, but surely it must be said that the Keeper faces at least 10,000 calls each year. It is the calls of people who are desperate, disappointed, in need of help; and our professional colleagues talk to them extensively; therefore, it is a well - done work for those who call on us. We get about 16,000 different documents. This also points to the state of human rights and to the warning of violations by those who write or call us, of course, by the most modern electronic mail, but also by another. We visit places in Slovenia. We do business in one of the congregations each month. This is a very important activity of the Guardian, and so we meet some 300, 400 people. I have received just as many of them in these six years on my own in the seat, and much more of my colleagues and colleagues. And we are seriously considering around 4,000 initiatives a year, which also shows our very extensive work. The novelty of our law; allow those who were in the previous reference and voted for it to also thank you, because after 22 years we have received it and thus expanded our institution. With 1. 1st of next year, it will work by having four organisational units. So far, since the amendment of Law three: Child protection as a very important, that is to say, assistance to unheard children; the State Preventive Mechanism, which I will present in the second part; the Human Rights Council, which helps every Ombudsman to hear wider warnings from the community, is his advisory body. And on January 1st, we'll get the Center for Human Rights. I can say that we have just recently also asked for status A in view of the extension of the institution, because so far we have only had status B, i.e. observers. How do we work? We are working as I have already said, so we are seriously considering all the initiatives that will come to us, but not just that. We are also addressing broader issues, those that are important to many people who are being violated by human rights, and we are also responding to what the media are reporting and to what is happening in our country. These are broader questions. If I tell you that we take off every year or attend 500 events, it is also an indicator of our work. We're a lot on the ground, and we're gonna run a lot of projects. What do we find? It is not enough time to present to you the 425 pages of a long annual report, which in no way manages to be shorter, because we have much to say. Good and responsible management is essential. Unfortunately, there is still a poor governance in the country between violations and offenders. There's not a lot of money around here. It always stops at financials. You'll be talking about the budget soon. Good governance is more; what you do, not because you have to, but because you feel that way and because you're not an official. Disposal of any delay. You have also talked recently about how some procedures are too long, and it is precisely those who should be short because they decide on human rights of the weak. Therefore, we remind ourselves of the backlogs of the Ministry of Labour, which are still too long and which I hope will be cut short. Also in the judiciary, in the administration, and unfortunately also in the inspection. How can people trust that jobs work if their solutions come so late? Interresor cooperation, extremely weak point. When it's working and it's got to work, there's still a way to go. When it takes two or three, we ask ourselves why they place responsibility on each other. Because that's the easiest thing to do. Human resources deficits. We're talking about broad government, that every day there are a lot more employees. But why aren't they exactly where we should act as control mechanisms? These are, in particular, inspection services. It's time for reinforcements. There's not much time left to talk about prevention in particular. At times, it is important for our citizens and those with us to know that these supervisory services are working quickly, for this means a good message to future violators – so that they are not paid. I am often asked, including you, the letters are always addressed to me by people who wonder if we are still a legal and social state; and immediately we fall into the question of poverty. Unfortunately, she's still there, and that's in the weakest. That is why you often decide what social assistance should be, what minimum wages should be, and how to experience when people get a job, like to work and be paid justly for it. Legislation must also be harmonised. How many times do we hear about the fact that marriages are too much to accumulate to be accepted? But they must be accepted in a delicate manner, with the right hand, so that they do not complain to the Constitutional Court and that they will be immediately accompanied by sub-legal acts. Who and what are we exposing? We show respect for everyone, given the differences that must enrich us — faith, sex, material condition, conviction. Everyone is worthy of respect. Non-discrimination between persons with disabilities, Roma, national communities, children and the elderly. We have even dedicated this year to the elderly, and we are always talking about children, not only on the day of the child, but throughout the year, because they share too often the fate of their parents, including those who get divorced and who are not at all able to decide whose child is going to be, and the child in the sense of Solomon’s judgment is in no way able to share. The following matter, which is present every year in our report, is certainly the ethics of the public word. Words hurt, words hurt. I won't talk about it much. I've often been asked why I don't respond to everything. I can't, there are mechanisms, even in the National Assembly, that have to work. There was talk of an ethical code, we were wondering if it would change anything. Limitation of personal freedom; yet how does it touch anyone limited to it? There's still overcrowding in prisons. It takes work for the convicts, because only if they work can we expect different, better ones to come out of prisons so that they can join the society of equal people. The rights of prison employees must not be forgotten. These too are often in serious trouble, and sometimes we overlook them. Forensics works, but we still have a lot of problems in Slovenia with people who have so many mental health problems. And I am not talking about the disgraceful situation in special protected departments in special welfare institutions. Every day I get requests for why someone has to lie in the hallway and when they'll have a decent life. There are foreigners, unaccompanied minors and asylum procedures. They're all human beings, they all deserve the rights, the speedy procedures and the country's answers to the questions when they come to us. Justice, we are not just talking about the time that has been cut short, and it is commendable; we can also talk about quality and trust in our courts, which must work in such a way that the public can say – Justice has won, justice has eyes tied up and it has judged. And how do we do that? How do people get the free legal aid they need? Almost anyone would need it. A lot of things are written down so complicated that a person doesn't even understand them with a college education. We have submitted eight requests for constitutionality assessment, in the last year two, in the role of amicus curiae, we have even entered the European Court of Human Rights and joined someone who is already there. This was the first time, and for the first time, we succeeded in the Constitutional Court last year with a constitutional complaint. The police follow the D.A.'s instructions when it even slips up on her, and it is only right that she then takes into account what has been found by supervision. Environment and space; painfully, just yesterday held a round table in Slovenia about this. We speak many things, but every rain surprises us; for out of it is a flood. And then we ask ourselves, who has failed and whether we still have time to prevent major disasters. Sometimes it burns, it stinks, people disturb the noise. They are not included in the discussions prior to the adoption of the legislation. Housing law; everyone would need a roof over their heads. As we can see, many youths suffer because they don't have it because they're staying at home. Whether to be provided by the municipalities or by the State, this needs to be regulated. Labour law; we can talk about this very widely. I have to commend progress. The laws that you have adopted, because it is better, but it is not so good that you can say that everyone who works is also paid and that contributions are paid, that labour legislation is respected and inspections are in place. Health care; you have spoken about this in such a broad way that it is certainly not necessary to lose words, because my time is somehow running out, but I know that it will be right for you, by the Members, to adopt appropriate legislation. That it requires political will, a true minister. Here are the representatives of the patient's rights, which I must commend. Of course, there are still a lot of open questions about how to trust health in all areas if there is so much health, if there is so much talk about these, that it is not understood by them and that non-communication is to blame. This can't be happening in health care. The issue of palliatives is also open. We had a special consultation about this last year. This is also a question that will touch us in some way. Social and unemployment can go hand in hand, there is homelessness. Sociala; here's the minimum wage that we talk about every day about what else is worthy of survival and what someone gets. Children, as I said, are very open questions, divorces, separation between professions and people in connection with vaccination. You also had here on the table, or at least the government, a proposal for a new law on infectious diseases. He's fucking here, and we're gonna have to answer here. We also took into account the parents who spoke of difficult stories at the Ombudsman’s home, but it is certainly a skill to respond in a way that takes into account everything he hears. And what people say, just for the end. They want to live off their jobs. Don't let the money make everything. I'm sorry. He's making it. You can't buy all the health, but at least partially buy it to come first; and sometimes you can do it if you can pay your lawyer. Where are the honesty and justice, where are they lost? They say we still have values. We have them, why not? They're written all over the place, and we talk about them day after day. And we live with them, do we take them into account? Let's ask ourselves that every day. It is also a great responsibility on your part, honourable Members and Members. You're going to decide a lot of laws about those who touch people. I would like you to be so united that you can say, "No matter what group or party I belong to, I will vote or I will vote in favour because it's fair for those people out there who are waiting so they don't have to wait too long. I hope that the policy will keep the promises it made before the elections. They were beautiful, beautiful. Just think about what you said, and I'm sure it'll be better in this reference then. And at the end of the day, I would like to thank all those who have read our annual report, the difficult bit, especially at the beginning of your mandate, is not easy reading, it is not reading for a good night, but it is extremely important because you learn a lot from it. That's what people told us. Thank you to all the working bodies you spoke about our report, thank you to the parent committee, thank you to the State Council. I have to thank you and say, it's better than it was, but I hope it gets better. And I'm really running out of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u3	Madam Guardian, you are certainly a person who would not have taken away her word. Thank you for your report. I give the floor to Mrs Eva Irgle, who will present the Commission's report on petitions, human rights, the same opportunity as that of her mother's working body. Madam Ambassador, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! At its 3rd meeting, the Commission considered the 23rd Annual Report of the Ombudsman on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. In the beginning, Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer, the Ombudsman, said that the exercise of control within the various institutions was often ineffective. Competent services do not always work optimally. It drew attention to the delay in various procedures and highlighted the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities in this regard. She mentioned the courts, which, however, reduced the trial time, but the individual proceedings still lasted for years or even decades. Institutions sometimes do not cooperate, shift responsibility and justify inadequate legislation. Under-laws are often lacking, the public is not sufficiently involved in the drafting of legislation and there is therefore an investment in constitutional review initiatives. She exposed poverty, which persists, and we failed to narrow it down substantially. Infringements of labour law are common, people are still not paid for their work or are not considered as pensionable. Of course, the Ombudsman deals with various content, school conditions, public nutrition, and problems of the elderly, environmental problems, foreign issues, refugees, migrants, asylum seekers and prison issues. With regard to justice, as last year, the Ombudsman highlighted the outstanding wills, and little progress has been made in the area of the Roma problem. Finally, she mentioned the Ombudsman’s financial independence. In this regard, they also wrote to the President of the Government and warned that the financial independence of supervisory institutions should be ensured. Then she received the word of a representative of the Council of State, who said that the report was assessed as very good, and the State Council had already touched on the topics addressed by the Ombudsman in the debates. It noted that some environmental problems have not yet been addressed by the State, and that the problem remains, in particular, an unfinished infrastructure. The representative of the Government thanked the Ombudsman for his comprehensive report and mentioned a number of recommendations which provide guidance for further action. He highlighted the response reports prepared by the Government or the competent ministry. The representative of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the enforcement of criminal sanctions said that they had a meeting with the Ombudsman where it was estimated that it would be necessary to engage in the management of personnel problems. This is a major problem, although additional jobs have been approved, but still not enough. The representative of the Ministry of Public Administration said that the Ombudsman's recommendations were taken very seriously. The remaining recommendation on the amendment of electoral legislation, which they will work on, remains unrealised. The representative of the Ministry of Labour said that the Ministry would seriously examine any recommendation made by the Ombudsman and cooperate with the Ombudsman. Then the rest of the ministries got the word. The representative of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia then said that the Ombudsman’s report was read from various perspectives. He highlighted in particular the systemic aspect in which they constantly examine the situation in the judiciary. Only legislative changes will not solve the problems. He also mentioned some additional measures taken in response to the Ombudsman's recommendations. The representative of the State Attorney's Office said that the Prosecutor's Office had respected and respected the Ombudsman's recommendation. It mentioned the content of some of the latest recommendations and the measures they are implementing and will be implemented in this regard. Then came the debate of the members and members of the Commission. It was pointed out that the Ombudsman should pay particular attention to the political abuse of children for various pre-election and other purposes. Systematic disregard of the Ombudsman’s recommendations was mentioned, which is repeated from year to year. A question was raised regarding the Human Rights Council staff composition. The issue of the blessing of public schools was highlighted, in order to break the Constitution. A hate speech was also mentioned, and the Ombudsman should not respond well enough to some problems or intensely, if I say so. At the end of the discussion, an assessment was made that the Ombudsman’s report had improved over the years. From them it was clear which areas where human rights were most frequently violated. In the last report, 77 recommendations were made and many are repeated. After the discussion was concluded, the Ombudsman again received the floor, which responded to some of the comments made in the debate. Work materials were put to the vote, this is a draft proposal for a recommendation which was also adopted unanimously by the members and members of the Commission. An integral part of this report is a proposal for a recommendation drawn up by the Commission as its parent working body. Today, as you can see, he is being considered by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u5	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mrs Andreja Katič will speak on behalf of the Government. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u6	Dear President, Members and Members of Parliament, the Honourable Guardian, all others present! First of all, I would like to thank the Ombudsman, on behalf of the Government, for the work done and for the report prepared, which reflects excellent insight into the state of respect for human rights in the Republic of Slovenia. The government understands and accepts the report as an important reminder in its further work, as a constructive criticism and at the same time as a tribute to the efforts made so far. In doing so, I would like to stress that acting towards raising the level of protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms will also lead the work of this government as one of the most important. The human rights area intervenes in a wide variety of social situations and concerns the work of all ministries and government services. According to the 2017 Ombudsman's Report, one of the biggest challenges is to tackle those problems that require the coordination and cooperation of a large number of sources. This is where the different perspectives are sharpened most and comes at the forefront of the balance between the realization of different human rights, which may also be in conflict. Therefore, there are different views in the preparation of individual responses, as each sector gives priority to certain specific aspects of company regulation. We are also aware of this at the Ministry of Justice, which since 2016 has been designated the coordinating body within the Government and is concerned about a systematic approach to human rights protection. As part of this role, we seek to strengthen our awareness of the importance of mutual cooperation and continuous action towards improvements in the protection of human rights. To this end, a mid-term report on the implementation of the Ombudsman's recommendations has been introduced over the past period and further efforts will be made as coordinator to improve the transparency of the substantive implementation of the recommendations; in particular to provide timely knowledge of the respondent resources in cases where a recommendation in the field of work of different sources is being made. In doing so, we want to encourage them to cooperate in a timely and creative manner when this is necessary for the proper response and implementation of the recommendation. 76 recommendations were made for 2017. According to the Government's assessment, 8 recommendations have already been implemented, 25 have been partially implemented, 23 of them being a permanent task, 10 have been rejected by the government for disagreement and 10 have not yet been implemented. However, the government has carefully examined all the recommendations, and has also prepared substantive responses, which are more detailed in the Government's Response Report to the 23rd Annual Report of the Ombudsman. Caring for the realization of human rights and to improve the situation in this area is never a complete process. At the Ministry of Justice, 10 out of 15 recommendations represent a permanent task. Here, as an example of activities that are not only permanent but also shared, I would like to highlight in particular the recommendation of the Ombudsman to continue working on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. If Slovenia had more than 320 outstanding judgments three years ago and around 45 in early 2018, it had only 13 more at the end of October. We take the recommendations on the protection of children's rights seriously, as well as victims or victims of crime, and we make them not only limited to individual recommendations, but also comprehensively and proactively. In this light, on 9 October 2018, with representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of the Interior, the Supreme Court, the General Police Administration and the Attorney General signed the Commitments on Support and Cooperation for the Implementation of the House for Children in Slovenia. The signing of commitments is all the more important as it represents serious purposes to strengthen the protection of children's rights in the most stressful situations and to prevent re-victimisation. The main purpose of the establishment of the Children's House is to act quickly and to treat the child in an integrated manner, and the emphasis is on child-friendly and interinstitutional cooperation. The upcoming amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act is also aimed at protecting victims of crime. I believe that only creative joint action can succeed in strengthening the conditions for ensuring and realizing human rights in a sustainable manner. And for this, the government will continue to work fully in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u7	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We are moving on to the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. Mr Blaž Pavlin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u8	The Ombudsman’s regular annual report is an annual mirror of the state in the country. It should not be an honour for us to highlight more or less the same emphasis each year as long-term judicial proceedings, delays in resolving complaints against first-degree decisions in virtually all areas, labour relations, scholarships, the exercise of rights from public funds, social security and unemployment, health injustices and many others. Unfortunately, the 2017 report is no exception. The Ombudsman's report could best be summed up by a statement that Slovenia is not yet a legal and social state, at least not for all citizens alike. And that's not right. People suffer these injustices that they experience in procedures with state authorities and institutions. The State should be the first example of respect for human dignity, not that it is often the opposite. Since 2012, the Ombudsman has been referring to the ineffective resolution of complaints against first-degree decisions on public funds rights. On the basis of the Ombudsman's warning, the New Slovenia Group recently requested an urgent meeting of the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. The Ombudsman in the 23rd Annual Report 2017 explicitly states that despite last year's recommendations and special warnings during the year, the situation has not changed at all. It is unacceptable that some complainants have to wait two years for their decisions, although the marriage deadline is 60 days from the lodging of the complaint. In the NSI Group, we consider such a situation unacceptable and unsustainable. It is also contrary to the minimum standards of the rule of law and does not offer citizens even the least legal certainty; even more. In its 2016 report, the Ombudsman points out that these delays not only violate the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act but also Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which stipulates that Slovenia is a legal and social state. The Ombudsman has been alerting the problem of backlogs for years, but the situation has not improved. In the New Slovenia Group, we estimate that solutions in recent mandates do not produce results; on the contrary, the situation is even worse. The government itself has acknowledged that the greatest success has been achieved in a way that, for a certain period of time – we estimate that this could be 12 months – could employ 5 to 10 lawyers who are fully committed to overcoming delays in the area of the resolution of complaints; that is to say, the Ministry's proposal, which has not yet been implemented in the government. In the field of health, the Ombudsman repeats the Ministry of Health's statement that it has not prepared a new Health and Health Insurance Act in due time, which could have a significant impact on accessibility to health services and thus reduce waiting lines, which are particularly a fundamental problem in the public. The Ombudsman reiterates the poor response of the Ministry of Health to initiatives, proposals and complaints from individuals and to the Ombudsman's inquiries. It is very rare to get an answer within the time limit; often only after the second emergency. Such activity is a direct violation of the Law on the Ombudsman and the administrative rules. However, this is certainly a bad practice, which shows that an inadequate organisation works to avoid even mentioning inappropriate treatment of customers. It also notes that the Ministry of Health only responds too often when a particular question arises in the media; although it has had sufficient time to prepare its position and answer. We hope that this practice will be changed by the new Minister, and this will not be the case in the future report. Finally, we would like to thank the Members of New Slovenia to the Ombudsman of the Authority Nussdorfer for the work done. This annual report of the Keeper is the last under its direction. Although we have not supported the appointment, we recognize the sense of justice and social sense and the efforts to warn about the mistakes and irregularities that the public authorities are making in the procedures of the citizens. Respect for the human dignity of every citizen is our shared responsibility. Mrs Nussdorfer, you have been a messenger of this and we believe that you will be in the future. We wish you well!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jurij Lep will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u10	Mr President, the esteemed Madam Guardian, Members and Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government! In the introduction, when the Ombudsman presented her work in 2017, she wrote down the thought of Mr Winston Churchill, who knocks on our conscience and warns of the conduct of all of us. He's talking about not being a good critic, but it's an emergency. This urgency of criticism must lead us to solve and overcome obstacles that cast shadow on the respect and exercise of human rights. We are pleased that, despite the scope of the report, which we have read mostly, some important developments have taken place in the field of human rights protection. It also encourages the Ombudsman's cooperation with NGOs in Slovenia and his more visible role in international activities. The Ombudsman mentions 77 recommendations in the report. Some of these have been repeated for years and have not yet been realized. It is sad that one of the main concerns is the Ministry, its irresponsibility and its failure to resolve matters. Immediately thereafter, the Ombudsman's statement follows at the expense of the inefficiency of control over the implementation of the rule of law, which means that we need to improve the efficiency of the inspection services and reduce their human resources malnutrition. In the Desus Group we advocate a decent life for all citizens, but we would like to draw attention to the unfavourable situation of certain most vulnerable social groups accompanied by human rights violations. The elderly are still one of the most vulnerable groups, facing poor economic and housing conditions, social exploitation, discrimination and exploitation in general. For example, the area of long-term care is still not regulated. Even more so will the fact that old homes are full in Slovenia. Not just full. Overcrowded. The rates of care are high, and in recent times many of our pensioners have decided to go abroad, preferably to Croatia. This is no longer just a challenge, it is a problem that we must solve. Further, we want to highlight the situation of persons with mental health problems, as we are still facing worse forms of human rights interference, particularly with involuntary accommodations and detention in protected departments of social security institutions. On the other hand, for years they have been struggling with overoccupation in the departments, leaving consequences for the guards and employees. Not to mention people with the most challenging mental health problems, because we are just starting to solve this issue. We must not forget the unacceptable situation in the field of disability protection, where we have an outdated 1983 legislation regulating the identification of the type and degree of physical impairment for the allocation of disability insurance rights. People with disabilities also still face multiple levels of discrimination. The Ombudsman highlighted their position on the labour market in particular. It would probably be beneficial for all of us to step into their shoes for one day and look at the world through the eyes of those who have been deprived of human rights and who are completely self-sufficient to us. Maybe then we'll finally understand. In the Desus Group, we will, of course, support the Ombudsman's recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Felice Žiža will present the position of the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Community. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u12	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, respectable Ombudsman, Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer. Egregio presidente della Camera di Stato, egregi deputati, egregio tukure civico Signora Vlasta Nussdorfer! Tiste Hölgyim és Uraim! The Italian and Hungarian Group wishes to thank you sincerely for the expiry of the term of office of the Ombudsman, Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer, and her team for their outstandingly good work in the area of which the Italian and Hungarian national communities live. It encouraged and proactively and systematically worked in this area, because unfortunately the complaints that should have been due to non-compliance in the implementation of the legislative provisions are not practical. Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer and the team really actively cooperated and supervised the realization of the situation and special rights of indigenous national communities. It also looked at working with state authorities, with local authorities and with public authorities. We would also like to thank her for her very active work on the public use of Italian and Hungarian. There was a lot of control here, too. We must say that we have also taken a few steps further in a partial solution to the gap between the constitutional provisions and the realisation of the use of Italian and Hungarian language in areas where the Italian and Hungarian national communities live. We also thank her for having done and recognized in the framework of the cultural heritage, registration and census of the cultural heritage of the Italian and Hungarian national communities what we have been trying to start with the Ministry of Culture for several years. She recognized the traditional sea salt event as a truly real cultural heritage of the environment, which is multilingual and multicultural. For this we sincerely thank her and wish that the Ministry of Culture in this work will also adhere to this agreement, which we have signed in cooperation with the Coalition Treaty, with regard to the registration and cataloging of the cultural heritage of both national communities. We want the incoming Ombudsman to continue in our area as outlined in recent years in terms of proactive and systematic action. And we wish him good work in the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ms Eva Irgl will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u14	Thank you so much again for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the armed forces. Today, we have before us the thirty-third regular Annual Report of the Ombudsman, which represents a kind of intersection of the state of protection and respect for human rights, which gives emphasis and recommendations to institutions that are obliged to eliminate and to respond to human rights violations. As stated in the Ombudsman’s report, in 2017 the Ombudsman dealt with slightly less than 4 000 500 cases, of which 3,000 were initiatives. But what I personally consider to be a worrying information is that a large percentage of such initiatives, where the initiative or role has been justified and, in the end, actually proven a violation of human rights; this shows that there are still many people in Slovenia who, despite the Constitution, are still in violation of human rights. The Honourable Lady of the Ombudsman touches on various content in the report, where human rights are violated. We keep reminding the Commission of similar content for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities: discrimination against students with disabilities, in particular with regard to transport; the issue of the functioning of the Council for Persons with Disabilities, where it is necessary to establish, as a true guardian in the report, such conditions so that it can function effectively. Poverty is still an extremely big problem. Poverty and poverty, as well as the lack of basic goods, represent one of the greatest interventions to human dignity, and we keep reminding ourselves of this. Poverty and poverty also lead to social exclusion. The country and the competent institutions should do more to establish social justice, which should go towards poverty reduction. The so-called energy poverty, which I began to draw first attention to in the previous term to the Commission's meetings, to the meetings of the National Assembly and also to the questions raised. This is the one that touches the elderly single women, widows and households with extremely low incomes; that is, those who receive social assistance, pensioners with the lowest pensions and unemployed. The urgent need to improve the situation in homes for the elderly and beyond, including marriage solutions, to ensure a decent and dignified life for pensioners and older people. Even this morning, when I came to work, a gentleman has already called on the Commission, who said that people actually live in extremely difficult straits because they do not have a decent life for a human being; and the country is unable to do so. In short, we face great pressures every day, especially for older people. For this reason, we also refer to the Commission's meetings on petitions, human rights and equal opportunities, including on the issue of the elderly. We also point out all the time that there is a great test by the social state and that there is a great test by the rule of law. This was previously pointed out by the guardian lady. While we have this very beautifully written in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, I am afraid that this is only on a declaration level. But when we talk about how things are implemented in law and how legislation is actually implemented, problems and problems arise. The rule of law is a major test because the proceedings are too long; and the agony of those seeking satisfaction and justice in the courts can last for decades, as we are also reminded by the European Court of Human Rights, which says that the right to a trial within a reasonable time is one of the key rights. And if it's not realized, then they're subsequently violated because of that, and they're still human rights. Many individuals in all these years due to long-term procedures; I, as President of the Commission over all these years, have met many people who have lived in really long-lasting agony because of the long-term procedures, and then have not been proven to have been right in 10 years, even 15 years later, while their name has been stained, not to mention that many have had their lives destroyed, family relations destroyed. Also, on the Commission for Petitions, the applications of individuals relating to justice often refer to complaints about the work of the courts, to the length of proceedings, to the specific errors of the courts in proceedings for which no one is usually responsible; to the great problem of the 2nd degree delays, which is due to the undernutrition of staff; to the problem of established wills, which the Ombudsman also points out in the report, to the inadmissibility of duties in the case of minimum sums, to the first- and second-rate hearings in the courts, to the fact that individuals are sometimes not guaranteed the same constitutional rights in judicial proceedings and could also be listed. All of this suggests that it is no wonder that so few people, even according to statistics, trust in the judicial system. The problem is also in the human resources supply of inspection services. We also remind the Commission of this from year to year, over and over again, it does not move. They add two to this structure, then they say they did something, but nothing really moves. And we're gonna have to do more here. Then there are problems due to environmental issues. There is a great deal of human rights violations here, and I think we are not aware of that enough in this area today. The prison issue is problematic and there is still a shortage of law enforcement officers and also of professional workers in prisons. The problem that I personally see, which the Ombudsman also points out all the time – and here I agree with the Ombudsman – is that the Ombudsman writes the report nicely, that he also makes recommendations to the National Assembly, that we have 77 of these recommendations this year; but in the end it happens that the National Assembly accepts it, the executive branch of the authorities and those institutions that should then react and prepare such legislation in order to actually make these recommendations, and then they do not do their work. And here I must say that the executive branch of authority does not have sufficient hearing for certain substantive recommendations. I also personally believe that by taking greater account of the Ombudsman's recommendations, we would certainly contribute to a more effective rule of law and respect for human rights. And that, my fellow Members, should also be our common goal. Here I must say that our commission, which I have been leading for some time now, is doing a very important work, which should be a key result or success in bringing the infringements identified to an end as soon as possible. Of course, the problem is knowing that, for example, in the previous House of State, we had a number of lawyers, some of them legal doctors, even constitutional doctors; and the worst human rights violations were taking place. In short, it is difficult to exercise the rule of law and respect for human rights if those who are first called to exercise the rule of law and respect human rights are acting in exactly the opposite of the hard-earned postulates of democracy. And it is democracy that has also brought us the legal framework for the protection of human rights, which is very important. We are talking first about the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as the highest legal act and the Constitutional Court, which protects human rights, which decides on constitutional complaints. Then we have the Ombudsman here, who is an independent institution, which should protect citizens' rights vis-à-vis national authorities, and sometimes, on some substantive issues, this is diminishing. And then we have parliamentary supervision of the protection of human rights, which was, first of all, within the Committee on Justice and the Committee on the Interior; and in 2004, this oversight went completely to the Commission on Human Rights, which undoubtedly plays an important role in monitoring the protection and respect of human rights. But despite the legal framework and despite all these mechanisms that are supposed to monitor the protection of human rights, we are reminded of the same things from year to year and of the same violations over and over and over and over again. And I personally wish that we could find all together, including all branches of power, including solutions, on exposed content. Most important, though, when we recognize human rights violations, we also feel how people actually feel when human rights are violated. And all branches of government need to do more to protect human rights and to reduce their violations and thus the pressures faced by individuals and groups. It is therefore incumbent upon the State to establish such an environment with all its mechanisms so that it can effectively exercise social justice and social rights and thus exercise respect for the Constitution of certain human rights. Man’s distress, since it is most often when we talk about human rights violations, that is, human oppression, that is to say, whether caused by such or otherwise human rights violations, can also affect human health. And when human rights are violated, and when we keep a person in deep, long - term personal distress, we also contribute to waiting species in health care. Therefore, the Commission and the Ombudsman find that petitions or applications in the field of health and health care have been increasing, particularly in the waiting line, which have even increased by 30 % over the last four years. In the previous call of the National Assembly, which was not so long ago, we have had many meetings and discussions on this subject, because of the inefficient and poorly organised system in our country, due to too long waiting lines for citizens and citizens, that is, people who have violated rights; or almost 250,000 people have been violated human rights. Approximately so many are waiting to be examined by doctors or specialists. Dear colleagues and colleagues, each of us most likely has a family, but if not a family, in the circle of friends, surely a person who waits for help for a long time. But the insufferable pains that these people endure from day to day, but they remain and are a fact, they move very little in this area. And as a result, human dignity is constantly tested, even though these people are paid into health care and are entitled to rapid health care. As far as health care is concerned, I cannot help but say that children's heart surgery is a major problem, and this is what we have been alerting the Slovenian Democratic Party all the time. And pedopsychiatric assistance, which is not sufficient, which is also pointed out by the guardian in this last report. There are also increasingly roles related to burnout and mobbing in the working environment. And even though it is a crime, people do not hope in their distresses that occur in some working environment to expose themselves because they are either afraid of losing their jobs or afraid of any other consequences; and as a result, they expose their families to shortages and poorer living conditions. Some may even be exposed to poverty if they go into this context to expose themselves. Stress, deterioration of health, loss of will to life, lack of optimism – all of this leads to a vicious circle that weakens the climate and, as a result, due to the absence and increasing number of patient influences on the development and economic picture of the country. Here, too, I cannot pass over suicide, which is still one of the highest in the world, which means that more and more people in Slovenia are obviously living in unsustainable straits. At the same time, I have to say that I feel bad, even when I see that nothing has practically moved in some areas in ten years despite warning. So there's a lot of pressure, and there's a lot of questions about the value system. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the report as the Ombudsman's recommendations; on some other issues that are still being raised in the Ombudsman's report, some will also be said in the debate by my fellow Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u15	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your position. Mr Aljaž Kovacič of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u16	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed guardian and others present! In the Parliamentary Group of the List of Marjan Sarca, we support the Proposal for a Recommendation to the Report of the Ombudsman and the Proposal for a Recommendation to the Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia on the implementation of the tasks of the State preventive mechanism under the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment for 2017. From extensive reports, it is more obvious that people are often in distress and are also looking for solutions to their problems with the Ombudsman. The areas dealt with by the Ombudsman are different, and for all, the Ombudsman focuses mainly on the protection of human rights. Slovenia is a legal and social state. We must strive to eliminate poverty and provide individuals and their families with the conditions to meet basic human needs; without discrimination, on the basis of any personal circumstances. Particular attention should be paid to children, young people, older people and persons with disabilities, who face great problems and challenges in our society. In his report, the Ombudsman pays attention to children with special needs, for whom there is still quite good management in primary and secondary school. Problems arise mainly during the study period in which students with disabilities face many problems, such as the accessibility of classrooms, the possibility of access to personal assistance and the availability of study material. The key problem is the infrastructure failure of the buildings in which the study process is carried out. Since there are many older buildings, these are not accessible to such a group of students. The faculty is trying to solve this in accordance with the financial capabilities available to them. However, this often occurs when a college finally adjusts the building to a specific group of disabled people after a few years, then these students study and come up with new ones with other health problems, but there is no funding for all adjustments. The Ombudsman shall draw attention to such cases and shall endeavour to ensure that students with special needs are provided in the future with conditions for the normal exercise of their study obligations. Attention should also be paid to children with emotional and behavioural disorders in the context of the early preparation of an update of the curriculum and the preparation of a specific system solution. As an important element of the quality of life of the elderly and disabled, we can also identify the area of long-term care. The overoccupation of protected departments in social security institutions is also problematic. In the area of social security, it is urgent to note the long-term decision in second-stage complaints and the non-payment of social security contributions. As stated in the report, long-term decision-making is a problem in several areas. According to the Ombudsman, the current effectiveness of inspection services is not sufficient. Some courts, state authorities and local authorities of the community have in many cases exceeded all reasonable deadlines for the handling of open cases and have repeatedly unduly delayed proceedings. Some criminal and other authorities in the field of administrative management are also unduly delaying the decision-making process. In such cases, human resources malnutrition cannot and must not be an excuse of the competent authorities. It also highlights the subject of public word and ethics, which is the pillar of the Ombudsman’s report, as well as online communication, which is often the refuge of hostile comments. The hate speech is a topic that is frequently misused in Slovenia, so it would be good to distinguish between the crimes defined in the Penal Code and the definition of hate speech as defined by the theory. In the Letter of Marjan Šarca Group, we would like the Ombudsman to present in the future an institution that will have confidence among people and that individuals in distress can turn to him for help. In doing so, the Ombudsman must ensure that acute cases are handled carefully and must not be satisfied with the competent authorities' response that the matter is under consideration and will soon be decided or completed. The powers of the Ombudsman shall affect the scope of the relationship with national authorities, local authorities and public authorities. The individual is so often in a situation where mechanisms to protect his legal position do not allow him to enjoy a decent and effective protection of fundamental rights. In addition to being able to turn to the Ombudsman, for example, legal remedies are available at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. However, citizens are often not successful there, as they have to meet difficult procedural assumptions that the court is dealing with the case at all. We believe that in the future it would be reasonable to consider extending the powers vested in the Ombudsman in Slovenia; or even introducing special guardians for particular areas as provided for in Article 159(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Meira Hot will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respected Ombudsman Mrs. Vlasta Nussdorfer with co-workers! Dear representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! 70 years after the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in some parts of the world, we are still far more far behind the ideals that people should live, based on inherent dignity and human rights. The Republic of Slovenia is also no exception. As already the 23th report of the Ombudsman, summarizing the key issues and problems facing citizens and citizens in the past year, shows, there is still room for progress in all areas of the realization of human rights. Although human rights in Slovenia enjoy high institutional protection and are taken very seriously by national authorities, as shown by the practice of up-to-date, responsive reports of the Government on the Ombudsman's recommendations, the number of cases where people feel that their rights have been violated in particular does not diminish. In 2017, the Ombudsman dealt with some less than 4 thousand 500 cases, of which there were as many as 3 thousand 23 individual initiatives. In 386 cases, representing almost 15% of all initiatives, the Ombudsman found that the alleged violations related to 39 different human rights violations were justified. And some of the cases under consideration are unfortunately repeated in past years' reports. It is also unfortunate that some of the violations and injustices found have not yet been recognised as such and corrected. This statistic upsets us, but it is also a positive indicator that the language of human rights in the Republic of Slovenia is still alive; and it is for those who are intended to use it and to empower it. This is for each individual and for each individual. In view of its competence to address individual initiatives, the Ombudsman is the voice of the people and the mirror of the State. The number of cases and initiatives dealt with shows that people trust the Ombudsman's mission and institution. And if anywhere, then with regard to the work of the Ombudsman, it is considered that the country's absence of criticism is more problematic than negative criticism. For we must also be concerned about all those cases that have not found the way to the Ombudsman because people do not hope or want to talk about them; or perhaps they do not know their rights and mechanisms for their enforcement. Social Democrats, when reading the Ombudsman's report, are always paying the most attention to initiatives that point to the protection of human rights of a systemic nature. These cases tend to address worse forms of human rights violations which, in addition to the initiator, affect a wider range of people. This year's report also mentions a number of cases of such violations; but we are pleased to note that the worst systemic violations, such as torture and other cruel, inhuman and degrading punishment or the conduct over which the Ombudsman is guarding the role of the State Preventive Mechanism, are not recorded in Slovenia. The Social Democrats will make a proposal for recommendations to institutions, competent state and other authorities and officials to take all necessary measures to implement the Ombudsman's recommendations contained in the twenty-three annual report and the State Preventive Mechanism report. We are pleased that there has been a practice in the National Assembly that respects the integrity of the institution and does not interfere with the Ombudsman's recommendations by proposing additional recommendations from Members and Members to reduce the weight of the Ombudsman's recommendations and human rights to put needlessly at risk of politicisation. In the Social Democrats' Group, once again, we commit ourselves to paying particular attention, within our competences, to preventing and remedying violations of a systemic nature; especially in the work that is caused or contributed to by the legislation that we adopt. As representatives of the legislative authorities who have put us in this position, we have the opportunity and the duty to have a positive impact on the level of respect for human rights and the well-being of all people. Our conduct and our wording also depend on the status enjoyed by human rights in our society. As the Ombudsman also warns in his reports, it is we who, by our example, influence the ethics of public words and the appearance of inappropriate, unacceptable, offensive and even criminal hate speech. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, in the end, to thank, on behalf of the Social Democrats, Mrs Nussdorfer, the Ombudsman for her work, not only in the past year, but in her entire mandate. We believe that, thanks to its work, the language of human rights is present not only in this esteemed assembly but in every local community. In the mandate of the current Ombudsman, additional tasks have also been formally entrusted to the Ombudsman by supplementing the Law on the Ombudsman in September 2017, reflecting the importance of this institution, and also how urgent it is that we receive as soon as possible a new Ombudsman or Ombudsman, with whom we will be discussing in about a year the main issues of human rights from an expired year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u19	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Ms Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Dear guardian with fellow Members, fellow Members, fellow Members! This time, the 23rd Annual Report of the Ombudsman contains the opening statement by Winston Churchill: “Critique may not be pleasant, but it is necessary. It plays the same role as pain in the human body; it points to the unhealthy situation of things.” This is an excellent starting point for all the debates and positions we will be witnessing in the coming hours. However, this year's hearing of the Ombudsman's report is, in a way, special in that the current Ombudsman concludes her mandate with him, so we thank the Ombudsman of Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer, on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group, for all the work that we believe has been done in all these years, which has been difficult and difficult, but at the same time self-sacrificing and always in the spirit of the 159th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which places the Ombudsman on our country's constitutional map. Today, the focus on current problems is somewhat different than it was almost six years ago when the current guardian took up her mandate. The social circumstances in which we are dealing with this report are also different. The world is different, Europe is different, Slovenia is different. Of course, everyone sees their own truth in this regard, but unfortunately we have to ask ourselves again whether the ideas that seemed to have already survived have become something everyday again. Do hatred for others and ignorance of the difference between ease and truth really belong to an open, democratic and freer Slovenia? We do not attach these issues to the SMC Group. And we do not agree that hate speech in our country is merely a figurative structure that we do not have to face. Silence makes hatred quiet. Recently, the Council of Europe called on us to strengthen the fight against hate speech on online social networks and to ensure a rapid condemnation of the use of racist language in the public. We believe that the Ombudsman’s position on the inadmissibility of certain practices, which, as history has taught, have already proved to be destructive. Now a few more words about the two reports that we are deciding on today by Members and Members. The reports present a thorough analytical review drawing a general picture of which areas of human rights protection are most burdened by individuals and individuals and in respect of whom they refer to the Ombudsman. This year's 76 reports are no less serious and justified than they were years ago. Recommendations come from different areas of social life and are all equally important. Human rights have never been fully realized. The challenges of their protection never go away, so it is only right that we, as legislators, are critical to areas where the Ombudsman notes that progress in the implementation is too slow or that there is not enough effort and effort on the part of the Ombudsman. The implementation of the recommendations is not and must not only be designed to exclude everyone, but because of the people who have addressed the Ombudsman with cases of specific violations of human rights, and in particular to remedy the injustices and to prevent the emergence of new ones. Therefore, the examples mentioned by the Ombudsman as examples of good practice convince us that progress is possible and feasible. And there are some of these in this year's report. Of the progress made in reducing judicial backlogs, in the enforcement of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, in facilitating access to justice in the case of collective action, in the protection of children's rights and benefits, including children and adolescents with special needs. One of the most frequently repeated recommendations was that Slovenia needs a full human rights institution. However, as has already been pointed out, further efforts are needed in areas where progress is not sufficient, urgent and on our part expected in the future. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will support the proposal for a recommendation recommending the National Assembly to all institutions and officials at all levels to take into account the recommendations made by the Ombudsman in the Thirty-three Annual Report. We will also support the proposal for a recommendation in the next item of the agenda inviting all competent national and other authorities to take all necessary measures to implement the recommendations of the State preventive mechanism. Here we particularly appeal to the competent authorities to implement the recommendation on the overcrowding of protected departments in special welfare institutions and the lack of arrangements for the admission of persons to protected departments without the consent of the National Assembly in the previous term. We will also support these recommendations in the spirit of continuing to strive for a modern, free and secure Slovenia, which, while guaranteeing the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms, enables everyone to create a decent life.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u21	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Željko Cigler, who will present the position of the Left Group, is the last person to speak on behalf of the groups of Members. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u22	Dear Lady Guardian! The report of the Ombudsman shall be reviewed by the National Assembly every year. However, it seems that the only thing that changes is the number of pages the reports contain. Reports are longer each year, which makes it clear that no government in the Republic of Slovenia is paying any attention to reports and warnings. Adequate last report of the Ombudsman is being considered at the beginning of the new mandate of the Government and the National Assembly, that is fine. The new authority is thus in the pre-decision report whether it will take the Ombudsman’s warnings seriously or join the previous governments, which have more or less ignored the Ombudsman’s reports. As in the previous term, the Left will represent the only party in the opposition that respects and defends human rights without exception. No exceptions to the right-hand man's rights. However, it will not be necessary to wait for the Ombudsman's next report to decide on how human rights will be dealt with by the Government of Marjan Sarca, since the measures should start and also respond to the warnings given here today and other meetings of the authorities of the National Assembly and have given them in the past days. The failure to act has major negative consequences on the lives of the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia, and I will not update the report on 433 pages on this site. But I'm going to point out a few things. The Ombudsman reiterates that Article 78 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia stipulates that the State creates opportunities for citizens to obtain a suitable home; but this is not the case. It is not necessary to explain in a long and broad way that legislation and the system are those that are rising again in the sky and that rents are growing and are virtually unattainable for people with low incomes or without them. Buying an apartment is a science fiction for those with average income in the city, such as Ljubljana or Celje. Young people can't imagine the solutions offered by Levic because of their job shortages or housing loans. The State should launch a large-scale project on the construction of non-profit dwellings and allow for the possibility of limiting rents at the level of legislation and preventing borrowing. The Ombudsman also draws attention to violations of the fundamental rights of workers. There is virtually no control over the payment of salaries and social security contributions. From year to year, there are many cases where employers do not pay wages at all or pay them only partially or do not pay social security contributions. And the Ombudsman notes that there is a lack of control over the payment of salaries and social security contributions. There is also a problem in the field of agency work, traineeships, disabled workers, which I will end up adding something. All of this leads to serious social threats in Slovenia – the social and legal state. The Left has been warning for years that the Labour Inspectorate is understaffed and that labour inspectors are overloaded. The scope of work at the inspectorate is increasing and the number of operational inspectors is decreasing. Nothing helps if legislation that protects a worker is good if it is not implemented or cannot be implemented. In the area of social policy and justice, Slovenia has one major common problem, which is the backlog. The residents and residents of Slovenia do not get their social rights or rights in the courts on time due to the failure of the system. Human rights, however, are most obviously violated by people on the social side. Again, in the legal and social state of the Republic of Slovenia. The biggest shift from basic principles of human rights has certainly taken place in the refugee area, where the previous government, with the amendment of the Foreigners Act at the level of legislation, has made it possible to suspend human rights. With daily illegal practices and intolerance and hatred, which we witnessed in the National Assembly yesterday, in the field of refugee issues and non-compliance with deadlines, virtually every applicant for international protection, again, in the legal and social state of Slovenia. Here, of course, is the situation of the Roma community. Last week, when I was with my fellow Members in Roma settlements in the municipalities of Krško and Brežica, I was convinced again from the first hand of the insurrection and man of the unworthy conditions in which these citizens and citizens of Slovenia live. But it would only take political will to solve them. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the persistent and repeated violation of the principle of separation between the church and the country in Slovenia. The Roman Catholic Church has a de facto privileged position of the State Church and is involved in state affairs. The blessing of state buildings and the participation of the Slovenian Army and the state summit in its rituals are the most visible indicator of this. I must say that the Parliamentary Group of the Left will support the Ombudsman's 2017 report and we expect the government to take it into account immediately. Finally, I would like to point out that in Slovenia there are many things that I have mentioned, in particular two things that I would focus on and have been highlighted by representatives and representatives of all parties today. This is a violation, an exclusive violation of children's rights and the rights of persons with disabilities. And even though we speak in public space, representatives of ministries, ministers, secretaries of this matter, things don't change. I'm gonna say it again, and I'm gonna say it again until this thing is resolved. When the Kangaroo issue was raised on television, there was a minister, there was a guardian, there was the director of the Education Inspectorate. The whole of Slovenia is disgusted and should not be allowed to do so in this country. However, when they are at the state level, from the point of view of the Ministry they violate the rights of children with special needs when their decision on direction is not implemented, there is silence, nothing changes. We warned the Minister of Education Majo Makovec Brenčič of the Modern Centre Party, the municipalities warned, the parents warned, the schools warned, NGOs. We have warned the current Minister, Mr Jerne Pikal of the SD, that things are not being done, that there is discrimination and arbitration in this area. Nothing happens. In the previous term, even before the elections, the Group of Members and Members opened the matter. Dr. Jasna Murgel also clearly wrote down and found that there was a violation of the constitutional and legal rights of children. Things don't change. Legal decisions on the direction of children shall not be implemented. Accompaniers, as recorded in the guidance decisions as a prerequisite for children to continue their statutory basic education, are not provided by the Ministry or provided by the Ministry on their own criteria. Decision in a way – we will give this child 20%, to 63%, and to this even 100% of the companion. No one knows on the basis of any criteria. The Ombudsman dealt with the matter and wrote it down in the report, well, but without immediately requiring that the matter should change. I don't know if we have to decide in court, fight for the rights of our children in this country. The report says we'll wait for the new government to change the matter. The matter needs to be changed immediately. Members and Members of Parliament, and here “games for children”. How much longer are we going to tolerate this? And I will point out one more matter, which I have already said, the active policy of hiring people with disabilities. Here the state has a system established, funded. I'm afraid it's a no-fly thing. At the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, there is a body which must take care of the status of employment centres. For the employment centre in Celje I claim and have been identified and have been alerted by various authorities, from the Ministry to the Employment Service, inspection services, not to mention further violations of rights under the Labour Relations Act, rights under the Occupational Protection Act, their dignity, humiliation; therefore they are financed by public funds. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs is not responding. The use of public funds is illegal, as I mentioned, in violation of the legal rights of vulnerable, vulnerable groups of people in our country. We hope that these words will not have to be repeated without knowing how many times and that the ministries will undertake the tasks for which they are responsible. I would like to say that ministers are also responsible for the legality and constitutionality of the work of the ministries they run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the word of Members and Members. However, the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Mrs Breda Božnik, also asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u24	Dear, distinguished Presidency, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, the well-respected Guardian and other guests, welcome! In view of what we have heard at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, we have assessed that we must respond to everything we say. I would like to say that, with regard to the 23rd Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 from the point of view of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, we stress that the Ministry shall examine the Ombudsman's annual report and each individual recommendation with all due diligence, seriousness and responsibility and shall seek to find the most appropriate solutions to implement these recommendations. If necessary, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities shall endeavour to find solutions to a particular problem in cooperation with the Ombudsman and other competent institutions themselves. In the area of social protection, the Ombudsman made several recommendations on the basis of observations in 2017. Many recommendations were made by the Ministry and some are still in the process of being implemented. Let me list some of these: the exercise of rights from public funds by extending the range of funeral and post-mortem beneficiaries; the rights of disabled students in transport; the placement of older convicts in homes for older persons; the issue of the Social Protection Act for mentally and physically disabled persons in connection with the transition between statuses; the so-called Roma problems by allowing access to drinking water, sanitation and electricity. Measures to reduce the backlog of complaints as well as measures to improve the efficiency of the inspectorate are also being implemented. It is very important with regard to the Ombudsman's statement that they are pleased that the Family Code was finally adopted in March 2017, which will solve many of the issues they have been alerting them to for many years. They also expressed the expectation that all preparations will be made in the courts and social work centres and the agreed means of cooperation of the institution until its entry into force, which is why we are also explaining. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities agrees that the adoption of the Family Code represents a major step towards better regulation of family law, and adds that the Ministry has put a great deal of work and effort into its preparation and coordination, including the expertise of the Ministry's professional workers. The basic objective of the Family Code is to ensure more effective implementation of the child protection principle and to improve legal certainty in the area of decision-making in legal and family disputes, so the competence to decide on measures to protect the child's benefit has been transferred from social work centres to district courts. For 2018, as regards the transport of students with disabilities, the Ministry of Labour is co-financed through social security programmes to adapt the transport of students with disabilities selected on a public invitation to tender of EUR 80 000. Half the funds for this purpose, namely €40 000, were contributed by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, which agreed to provide funds for this purpose. Regarding the field of work of special social institutions in the context of working with people with mental health problems, the Ministry of Labour has already approached those conclusions and is expected to increase capacity by 20 cities. In the house of Nina Pokoren Grmovje is planning to build an additional protected section – the matter is already in progress, it is going to the end – and it is the installation of persons with dementia. The construction of that department will be financed by the institution’s own resources and implementation is foreseen by the end of this year. I would also like to point out that at the Lokavci House, with the renewal of possible enlargements, we anticipate an expansion of capacity for 20 users. Here is the realization foreseen in mid-2019. I must also touch on the areas of the elderly, which is extremely important, and for this very reason a strategy of long-lived society has been adopted. At this point, action plans are being drawn up, where cooperation by all sources will be needed. However, as far as poverty is concerned, it should be stressed that we pay particular attention to it at the Ministry. Here I would mention that in the Republic of Slovenia we have social transfers that are available to the most socially disadvantaged. Members of the National Assembly have also adopted this month a new Law on Social Security Benefits, with which the basic amount of minimum income, i.e. as from 1 January 2019, is maintained at EUR 392. Finally, I have to touch the backlogs. At the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, we seriously tackle these setbacks. We continue with the project to reduce these, in the context of the increased number of workers, employees and the distribution of all arrears, i.e. all complaints across the various Directorates of our house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u25	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. Mrs Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare Mr Ferenc Horváth. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u26	Dear Mr President, the well-respected guardian, colleague and colleague, a nice greeting to all! The report is long, extensive and has also recommended quite something. I was most impressed by the statement, or by the report, by the great non-response of state authorities, or by the lack of cross-cutting coordination and cooperation. Above all, that human rights, the Constitution and the General Administrative Procedure Act are violated while awaiting the resolution of second-degree complaints at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs concerning public funds benefits, social assistance, scholarships and others. This is unacceptable; we know that by this time the student can already graduate, the student has already completed school, and they cannot receive adequate compensation or funding. In short, there is no appropriate answer in the appropriate time-limit. I don't think that's acceptable. And the Ombudsman's recommendation is that ministries need to cooperate more, coordinate and resolve problems within the legal framework. I also face the problems of citizens several times when they are disappointed because they receive the response of the guardian, the guardian, that something is not within his purview. Then I find that many times citizens do not know exactly what is in the custody of the Ombudsman and what is not, and they are disappointed and do not know where to turn. I don't know when you're answering them, whether it's also possible, or whether you can instruct them, or give them an appropriate lesson, but where they should turn because of their problem. This would ask for your answer, or can you do so, so that the citizen will not feel that his calls are screaming in the desert, but that he is someone who directs him to the right place. You have also warned and made recommendations regarding legislation to be adopted immediately, to be updated and amended. I would like to mention the electoral legislation myself. Strangely enough, someone who, after having to apply for a post office vote, is sick and in hospital, or in prison, or any other institution, can no longer vote in the post office, can no longer go to the electorate. This law needs to be amended and amended without delay, and I recalled a meeting of the congregation council in a congregation when a congregation decree was adopted that parents should report this to the head of the kindergarten 14 days before the absence of the child due to illness. We know that the disease comes suddenly, unexpectedly, and we cannot do so, so the legislation must certainly be amended or supplemented at this point. Of course, there are many other recommendations. What Members can do – of course we expect the activities of the ministries that are preparing legislation – we can also do something to the Members, but we do not have teams like these so that we can propose and change all the laws immediately, and we do not have the power to do so, so these initiatives apply first to the relevant ministries, and then the Members will do their job. I hope that in the future report you will not find out how the Personal Assistance Act we adopted last year is being violated because I do not know exactly how the Ministry is preparing everything necessary for the implementation of this law. Finally, I would like to thank the Ombudsman for the good work she has done. I also didn't hear that there were delays or irregularities within your body, so I think you've done your job well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u27	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Ferenc Horváth has the word to prepare himself for the mag. Bojana Mursich. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dearly-respected lady of the Guardian, distinguished representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! First, I would like to thank the Ombudsman for her work. If I were the president of the Olympic Committee now, I would probably even say, at least from the point of view of nationalities, that she has been the best human rights guardian so far. I think that she has also been very active and proactive in this area in her work, because the relatively small number of applications concerning violations of human rights by nationalities does not mean that they do not happen. But as we have also found on the Commission for National Communities, unfortunately we do not serve this often, but somehow we may be left to ourselves or not to take advantage of the possibility of using the language, but rather to choose our own easier way and what we want to do in various offices, we do in the Slovenian language. I also somehow understand the Ombudsman's report as some sort of ad hoc report, because in the National Assembly we always have two rights or two explanations of what is right and what is wrong with the opposition and the position. In view of the fact that this is some sort of non-partnership report, I think we can be seriously concerned in a number of cases. In particular, I am personally concerned about what the lady has pointed out – and I myself have actually witnessed this several times as a representative or president of the Hungarian community, as well as now as a Member of the National Assembly – the inadequacy of some state authorities, including ministries. Unfortunately. I think we really need to move forward in this area. Only the report, I think, would be even more important if the ministries or other state institutions had some obligation to say what they had done in the year since the previous report. That is why I am also pleased that the Secretary of State has said what kind of work they have done, and I think that this would be appropriate and appropriate for other ministries. One of the biggest problems that we perceive as representatives of the national community is certainly the gap in legislation, i.e. in the implementation of legislation, because I think that legislation on the protection of indigenous national communities is very well written and implementation is very poor. We have been warning in this area for years, but there has been no visible progress. I'm not saying that it wasn't, but every government has done a little bit more than it has done so far, but I think, especially in training professional staff, that every government should do even more than it has done so far. The document we signed with the coalition also contains this part, and I hope that we will make even greater progress in this area in this mandate. And some of the characteristics of our area are also hostile speech. There are quite a few individuals at our end who are in this area, I must say, very active. I think that in Slovenia this issue is legally poorly resolved. I understand the importance and support of freedom of speech, but sometimes the limit between freedom of expression and hate speech is very thin. In this area, I think we should adopt legislation in the National Assembly that would make this limit of hate speech more exact, because it is the only way that everyone can interpret it in their own way. It is precisely because of this irregular legislation that neither the guardian nor the law enforcement authorities sometimes have actual instruments to take appropriate action. Finally, I would like to thank the Ombudsman and her colleagues once again for the very good work they have done, and I wish you well in the future. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Get Mrs. Anja Bah Gibert ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Honourable President, Honourable Guardian, Secretary of State, Colleagues and Colleagues! First, the esteemed guardian, allow me to thank you for the excellent report, you and your team, because this report we are receiving – and I have been reading it for the fifth year – I must say that every year it is better, more comprehensive and more visual. But in doing so, I would like to stress that policy in these reports needs to look at itself, because despite the constant call, we cannot be proud, as the number of these recommendations has increased over the last year. In 2016 we had 71 recommendations, today we track 77. Thus, in this place, we, the politicians, the government, are really being called upon to move forward so that these violations will be as few as possible. I have read this report, and this report is really not night reading, because when you read it, it touches you, and it's easy to get the nights up and up, and that's really not right, so we have to end it. The economic growth that we have experienced shows that the rights of individuals who have been deprived of their rights during this economic crisis must be restored. The savings we have received have pushed many more to the brink, and individual vulnerable groups have become or remain completely at the edge. This decision and this reflection are also reflected in our decisions in the National Assembly. I believe that our decisions are often under-thinking, as the guardian also reminds us, so we need to make some decisions that we will feel regardless of our belongings, but that they will follow people. For with our decisions we interfere in the lives of citizens and citizens of our country. We also received voices from them, and it is right to represent them and listen to them. Therefore, the report clearly, clearly points to the consequences and slow action or non-action also reminds us. True, the report is not a nice collection, but it puts us in front of a mirror in which we must all identify ourselves together. True and sad that today, in the 21st century, we face poverty. In 35 cases, the Ombudsman found that the basic provision of the Constitution is in breach of the principle of the social state and the rule of law. That the principle of the social state is violated when human dignity is affected, when individuals and their families do not have the conditions to satisfy fundamental human rights and are vulnerable to poverty and are not guaranteed material and social security is unacceptable. Otherwise, the decline of the population, threatened by poverty, appears, but we're still back here. By no means should the group living in poverty be underestimated, they need to be given a lot of attention, as the minimum income of social transfers does not guarantee decent survival. Concerns are that older people, particularly retired women, are the most at risk. Why do I mention women and older women, especially women who are left alone? Her income, and her pension, despite her work, is so low that if she lives in a rented apartment, she cannot spend a month with these incomes. This is simply unacceptable. I believe that after 40 years of work – while some have done less because the legislation then applied slightly differently – that such low pensions are so low that they do not reach the threshold of poverty are unacceptable. For an old man deserves a decent life at his own age, and we must make an end of it. On the part of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, we have heard that we are going this way, and I believe and hope that we will succeed. It's not just the pensioners' problem, we're tracking problems in the active population. Some individual, a worker works a month for a minimum wage when he brings it home and when he pays all the costs, he just doesn't come in from month to month. They are created — not to say — debts that grow into such high debts that when children reach the age of 18 and 15 years of age go to work through a student’s work, they help such a family to survive easily. The child goes to work to help himself, but our parents are obliged to care for them and help them to carry out their school duties successfully. There's a lot of trouble here, too. Many live on the social floor, losing their dignity, especially in the search for clothing, as well as in humanitarian organisations. We also face humanitarian work on television, where they redecorate apartments. Really, when you look at this show, you can’t really think that people can live under such hopeless conditions. These humanitarian actions really touch you. I also need to touch on the disability allowance, which is moving somewhere between 190 and 290 euros, perhaps more. This is the amount of someone who worked 20, 30, could also put in a pension box for several years, become disabled – the disabled became in the workplace, because his work was so difficult that he was granted a third category of disability. The rest of them are unemployable between the status of job seekers and the pensioner. It is unworthy that such an individual would otherwise turn to a social work centre for financial social assistance. That, I don't think that's right. It's not fair, it's not social. Unfortunately, we often hear from pensioners on the ground: “With such a pension as I have, there is neither to live nor to die.” I must say, I'm very sad to hear that. I simply hope that we will be able to change this part of the pension reform. We also have problems with young children who simply share the fates of their parents, because the social state, which sees so much poverty in the mirror, even though it decreases, needs to take decisive action and change it. Very painful stories are also about real estate executions. Of course, we changed the law, which is one step further. The Law on Enforcement and Insurance, which stipulates that the Court must take into account the proportionality of the debt to real estate — yet these people who face enforcement to housing are in such great distress, and so have I, but you simply cannot and cannot help them. For the debt that he owed them — for such a reason and for another reason they have lost their jobs — then the four - part family loses its roof over their heads — I feel that this is very painful for both those who are affected and those who are simply unable to help them in this place. Here a suitable solution should be found for such a family to come to the aid of the local community, to put them in a social home so that the family can somehow continue to live a life of dignity, as they eventually deserve. Slovenia is still one of the human rights violators of the European Court of Human Rights conviction. Infringements that are may be much more expensive than they could be if the Ombudsman’s recommendations were followed, but these could be significantly less. The Ombudsman warns the prosecution that it is also concerned with the swift and effective implementation of the criminal prosecution procedure, in the event of possible rejection of complaints, to ensure that the victims are informed of decisions based on clear explanations. This, I think, is also very important because when someone is wronged, it doesn't matter if after 15 years or more – his name was involved. Returning to society is very difficult or long - term and painful. Also, problems with the lawyers themselves, in the lawyers' ranks, warns the Ombudsman, the long-term treatment of applications against their work, does not strengthen confidence in the Chamber of Lawyers and their authorities, so this does not help to make their operation transparent, so in this place we can really only attach to the Ombudsman and appeal to the Ministry to help in this story. Unfortunately, I also have to touch health care. The Ombudsman proposes 7 recommendations of 77 regarding health care. Indeed, there are fewer than there have been in the past year, yet this issue is still explicitly exposed. The forecasts of changes were in the previous mandate, the forecasts of changes are in this mandate - I hope this is not similar to the forecasts of the end of the world. I expect the new Minister to prepare, without delay, amendments to the criteria for establishing a public health network and thus give equal opportunities for public and private health operators and for users to have equal access to all health services. I will also touch on the proposal in view of the Ombudsman's recommendation to examine the current protocol for gynaecological examinations of victims of sexual violence and to find out, to ensure that a gynecologist can choose to establish trust and not cause additional distress and unpleasantness, because these women in this painful situation must have confidence at the other end. The health reform, which we all hope will finally come, must be in the best interest of patients, and I hope that the way will be to meet the needs of our citizens and citizens. The Ombudsman is also not satisfied, as I have already mentioned, with the situation in the area of housing issues. I mentioned just before that the local community could act in enforcement by providing non-profit housing. But what happens? Invitations for non-profit dwellings shall be published at any time once a year and the Ombudsman shall alert and recommend that the local communities provide an adequate housing fund and at least annually publish at certain time intervals, at least annually, an invitation to tender for the allocation of non-profit dwellings, as the population and needs vary from year to year. Governance in multi-housing buildings has not yet been regulated, even though there has been a lot of talk in the previous term. The housing market is also one of the key shortcomings, a small offer of housing. And there's only one thing — that's very, very big, but not everyone's going to be able to handle. In 2016 we amended the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We've entered the right to water. This was only the first step, two good years have passed, we do not yet have sectoral legislation in this area to prevent the misuse of water, so I think we need to take a constant approach to adopting appropriate legislation as soon as possible. Although the Secretary of State is nodding at me, I am glad to be one step further. But why am I mentioning this? For for the distribution of these water rights also, I believe that it is necessary to preserve natural wealth and not at any cost to grant water rights for the exploitation of such streams, so to speak, because it is necessary to preserve, at least in smaller streams, food and approach with humanity. And let the interventions into the environment be considered, for we must truly preserve the nature and nature of the things we have. Let that be enough in this place. Once again, Guardian, I thank you very much for all the work you have done throughout the mandate, and I wish you well on your next trip. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The text is by Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert. For her, a Member of Parliament, Dr. Milan Brglez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u32	President, thank you for your word. Dear, esteemed guardian, colleague and colleague! Of course, the report is well prepared, and we can say excellent. However, personally — in my previous term — I would like to say the same thing — to make this significantly cheaper. Not to prove that the guardian did not act or did not act, but it would prove that we are making progress as a society and that we are also making progress as individuals. But it's not like that. In the introduction, colleague Eva Irgl said that some things have been going on for years. Sometimes I seriously wonder how the esteemed guardian has worked all these years, because to bear the fact that you are sometimes a toothless tiger and face the difficult situations that are in a country that rules among citizens, you can't really take a step forward. This work is probably not only responsible, but sometimes very painful, and sometimes it seems empty to a person. But it's not like that, a respected guardian, even if you've ever felt that way, it's not like that. Otherwise, there's a bunch of State Secretarys here today. Perhaps there should be a palette of those who performed this function in the previous term, but because we are talking about a recycled government and those who were formerly at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs of the SD species – they are sitting somewhere else today, and I hope they are listening. Why? Because I find the most controversial in this report: a lot of systemic problems – a lot of issues are based on systemic problems – and secondly, the failure of authorities, including ministries. And this is not only for individuals who turn to a single ministry, but for the guardian, it is written that even to this institution, the Ombudsman’s institute is called, there have been many times no answers or hearing about the arrangements. This is also clearly written in certain cases. It is unacceptable for me that the Ombudsman notes that individual matters begin to be resolved or moved when they come to the media, although it is so alone and even though individuals have previously responded to the appropriate addresses, but in fact things have not moved. So I hope, dear colleagues from the government, that you are not here today just because you have to sit down, but because it is polite, and because it is well seen because in our presence there is also a guardian, but that the next time we consider this report, we will see this significantly less in your areas. I will go through certain areas, I will not intervene in everything, because this is impossible, and not least it was a competent body that dealt with the matter, but still. Look, it starts at the beginning. Infringement of electoral rights, respectable. The Ombudsman notes that we have had a systemic irregularity for years where individuals who, just within ten days, as stipulated by law, cannot report that there has been a change in their stay, either in a hospital or go to any institution, however, they cannot vote. And what is the government's response? “In the next amendment of the law we will try to arrange this.” No, we'll sort it out – we'll try to fix it. Thus, we agree that citizens and citizens are subject to active electoral rights. This is where it all starts. Because people can't even say yes or no to someone they think to represent their interests. The Ombudsman here deals only with so-called individuals, who in these ten days, when it is possible to say that you would vote in another way Let me say that the Slovenian soldiers also belong here. [[…]] I have warned several times that we are sending Slovenian soldiers on an international mission, working for the good of the countries, and they cannot vote. Groups of people cannot vote but are sent to international missions by the state. These violations occur over and over again and nothing changes. Now, of course, someone will say that this is a small group — no violation of electoral law in this country should be and is unacceptable! Not one! Not at the expense of system regulation or non-regulation. But that's what happens to us because it's probably not in anyone's interest that these groups are coming to vote. I'm on my way. The Ombudsman points out in a number of areas that various initiatives on problems, when viewed as a percentage, are increasing in individual areas. We rarely see things shrink, especially in a number of cases. Today, there have already been talks about work, family and social matters. It's been kind of the primate of Social Democrats for years. Today, I have also heard from their kind how big a problem this is. Good morning! What were you doing? I'll be specific. This is one of the most sensitive ministries for citizens and citizens. This, of course, does not fly to this current composition, because it has not yet been able to respond, but rather to the back. This is one of the most sensitive areas and there should be, as far as information is concerned, responses to citizens, which can be sensitive, sensitive and, last but not least, quick, these people need quick information, quick help. What's going on? The Ombudsman notes that for four years a citizen has not responded. The Ombudsman notes that the phone calls are not even recorded and does not know if the individual was embezzled or not. Look, that's not exactly the basic stuff in our country. There was something about unemployed people, about social support, if I may say, about low wages, and I will stop at invalidity pensions, respectable. We have a lot of disability pensions in the country. In principle, these people have lost their health in jobs, most of the time because of their work. But we have a completely disorderly system here. I am being approached by people with a disability pension of 240 euros. 240 euros! It is said that less than the one in the office is unemployed and may not have done a single hour's work. On the other hand, we have people who worked, who also contributed to the cash register when they worked, and they get 240 euros. What do they tell me to go on? Not only do they talk about how difficult it is to survive with 240 euros – I think it would be distasteful to start with such a discussion and talk about how difficult it is, how painful it is, because these are just words for some good-hearing manual. But these people today are concerned with the need for treatment because they are disabled because of health problems and because they have to go to a different place because they do not have it in their congregation or because they have begun treatment there, today, after a new institution, they will no longer be reimbursed for their travel expenses. And they ask me how to continue treatment because they can't afford it. For them, the passenger cost of such a pension is too high. Is there anyone here who doesn't understand? I don't think so. Such things should be resolved immediately, as a matter of urgency. Secondly, which is very interesting and perhaps, I hope that the opposite sex has also taken a good look at the report when the guardian speaks about the Health Act. There have been some changes here, but the guardian also notes that there is still no fair access for patients to health services. You also have this beautifully written on page 353 and allow me to shorten what is written. Why doesn't our health system open? Why not allow competition, review services, individual prices and allow more people to enter the market with services and thus reduce waiting types? Why does it happen that someone who goes to a health service in a neighbouring country pays a hundred percent and the money comes back, but if you go to someone in Slovenia and they don't have a licence, it's not paid. You know what people are gonna do? They're going to go to the neighbouring country and they're going to say, this is what happened to me there, they're going to get a service and, of course, it's going to be paid. No waiting line. Look, that's the system we have. If you don't believe us many times when we talk about it, trust the guardian. It has already been said today that this is not a matter of political personality, but of someone acting on us. Come in. Something was said about the Roma problem. In the position of the Left, if I listened correctly. Dear colleagues, I also invite you to attend with me one day to the area – where there is a Roma settlement around people – we visit the non-Roma population together. And you will see the problems they face and deal with daily. They can't go to work in the morning because there's been robberies all night, trouble, shooting, music. Children don't go to school in the morning. But do you know what the problem is? The problem is that our country doesn't even have basic statistics. We would be solving this problem legally, but we do not have basic statistics. In my previous term, I warned about this, I asked for information — but we don’t have it! We have no data on how many Roma children attend primary schools, how many elementary schools finish! As an eight-year-old; not to go to school for eight years — or nine years. We don't have that information. We have a lot of projects, but what an evaluation if we don't have basic data. This is just because we are talking about giving something to give a lot of money to solve the Roma problem, and no one really wants to solve it. Because if we really want to solve this in this country, we need to start with basics. Data on how many Roma there are in Slovenia, how many illegal settlements there are in Slovenia, how many Roma children attend primary school, how many they finish, how many in the labour market, how many keep working and so on. And I'm not going to continue now. Once we have this, we will be able to talk about measures and programmes, and then also evaluate individual programmes, which are today difficult for a million euros. We give a million euros for individual employment programmes, but no one can answer the impact. I respect the guardian because she's dealt with both sides here on these issues. Because that's the only way we're going to get the key solutions. So, your honor, we are happy to go together sometime, and you will see – I have also organized a public tribunal on this subject in the hope that we will take a step forward, and we have not. Just as disappointed – as many in the country do, but I hope and sincerely hope that we will once again take a step forward. In short, this is where I'd end up. Once again, dear colleagues from the government, it is not about us repeating what is stated in the report. Virtually all of us draw from the reports what citizens and citizens say to us on the ground, but I do hope, and I wish that someday, when I visit voters and voters again in the field, I will not meet in their homes people who are crying, who show how much they get on the moon, who show what they have done in their lives and who ask me how they should survive. Let's take care of our own citizens first. Let us ensure that human rights are not violated in our country by our citizens and citizens. Let's take care of our own citizens first. I hope that this will be the starting point of this coalition in the future, because sometimes I feel that everything is worth more than how our people, our taxpayers and our children live. For two things are happening to us today: on the one hand, young men go abroad to work for a better life, on the other hand, we lose or are forsaken by pensioners. Not because they want to get out of this beautiful country, but because they cannot pay in Slovenia for pensioners and have to go to neighbouring countries. It's Slovenia! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u33	Thank you very much. There is a Member of Parliament, Dr. Milan Brglez. Let's get Member Sonibo Prince ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u34	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Guardian, Government, colleagues and colleagues! What every year means to me a debate on human rights and a debate on the report is some expression of our sensitivity or sensitivity to the issue of human rights. In a way, there is also a duty that we have in view of the country we live in and the place of human rights within our constitutional system. On the other hand, we are showing this, and this has slowly become more convincing, and these last days have given me much more warning – we are talking about the undeniable basis of Western and European civilization. Yes, the issue of human rights is the undeniable foundation of European and Western civilization! Therefore, human rights must be understood both in their universality and in their participation, and they must also be understood at this point when there are concrete initiatives and they need to be understood where sometimes things are less clearly worked out or within a country of proactively formulated human rights policies. That way, within this, I would try to put my debate in place somehow. First of all, the addition of the Law in 2017 on the Ombudsman has enabled and will enable a more proactive management of the internal human rights policy in the Ombudsman's institution itself, both with the Council and with the Centre for Human Rights and with other matters that have already proven to be pilot-friendly, will now be able to work. On the other hand, it is an incentive to state authorities and the ministry, as well as to the state as such, that it may contribute its part of the management of this policy to the interior, I will say, in view of its own people, as it is said, although there are some limitations here, which we still need to understand when we are talking about human rights. And two basics. The first and fundamental one that we understand within the legal order of human beings is that it is always an individual-to-country relationship. This is not a direct relationship between two individuals. This is also why the Ombudsman’s institution is so important, because this aspect can actually be easier to accept than anyone else, and so if there is a violation, then the State must ensure that this breach does not occur, which has actually happened between individuals – and that you understand these individuals as legal and natural persons in the most general way. That's one. Second. It's not, except for those that must never be eliminated, absolute human rights. My right cannot be absolutely guaranteed at the expense of the rights of others. This, this limit, this limit must exist and this limit is often violated because we have this egotistic base, we can also say in Western civilization, in one way or another, systemically embedded. And it is only necessary to understand these matters to a certain extent and then we cannot say that we care about human rights only in relation to certain categories and thus exclude all others. No, they're both domestic and foreign policy. This is why this annual report is closest to what countries are doing in a universal periodic review, and we are currently leading the Human Rights Council. Whatever we are doing close or at least at the symbolic level on this issue is actually important. I'm proud to be running the Human Rights Council. Sometimes I am not proud, which is how little we think, how other issues are actually related to this and how we do not know how to bring these issues to the level where this moment is the greatest; and that is, let us say things within Europe, sometimes within the Council of Europe, or within the European Union. Thus, this constitutional conditionality of human rights is very, very important to me. And it is all the more important if we understand what this constitution actually says. In fact, why must this country be active in the field of human rights? Because it has a simple constitutional basis that says that the highest standard must always be respected; it is defined in our Constitution, either by international documents or by international law. I think this means not only that international law that binds us only contractually, but also that which has grown into international customary law. That's how you always look at the highest foundation. This is also why we have sometimes had such problems when facing or limiting certain rights because this foundation is far superior and because we have to apply it to anyone who comes to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia through our Constitution. And no exceptions! No exceptions. So don't talk about it, one way or another, because it's already in conflict with the basic logic of human rights. We have to take care of everything, and it's only right to take care of everything, but that doesn't mean we privilege anyone or depriv ourselves. It is true, however, that human rights are always dependent and dependent on the fight for these rights, the active demand for these rights. Utopia is that they have been put on their own and that nothing will change in this area. It is always necessary to take an active stand for them and therefore this institution is important, and the recommendations are therefore important. This is why we Members never dare to change them, because it is what it is somehow our duty to do in relation to what kind of city human rights they have in our constitution. This is not how we now see it as some terrible controversy, but it is a logic that should rule in the field of human rights and that must be repeatedly warned so as not to be abused for purposes for which they have not been elected. Of course, I support all the recommendations, I will vote for them, but it is very important to present them. Partly, I am even more impressed by yesterday's debate, which I think has moved in many ways away from this ideal, which is also represented in the political system of human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Member Sonibo Prince has the floor. Have Member Primoz Siter ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u36	Thank you, Vice President. Respectable colleagues, colleagues, respectable guardian of human rights! Let me begin this discussion by commending you and, of course, the entire team for your successful work in 2017 as well as for your entire mandate, which you conclude. 4 000 500 issues that you have dealt with in 2017, of which 3 000 initiatives are good; and what counts, at least for me, is that you have also successfully completed 87% of these initiatives. This is enough talkative information about your performance. I am sure that Slovenia is also more friendly in the field of human rights today because of your work. Honest congratulations. This is the first time I have been a Member of Parliament, and for the first time I have taken this report seriously, and I must say that I have read it with great pleasure. However, as mentioned in your address, this is really not a reading for the evening, because — after you think we are just a regulated country — it is somehow a mirror of reality in your report in our society. I also believe and hope that, if it is not already, it should be mandatory to read this report for us, Members and, in the first place, for the government and ministries which are repeatedly mentioned in these reports. Unfortunately, mentioned many times in a negative connotation, which is one of the things that has surprised me in this report. It is not understandable to me, or I cannot imagine, that the lack of response from ministries to your initiatives, and especially when things are at such a low level among several departments. I also hope that this, and I also expect that the competent ministers have read this report and that, at least in the work where their departments are mentioned, they will make sure that the response to the next mandate is significantly better. This is what I think we can do with relatively less cost and with a little more will. There is, of course, a lot to discuss in this report. Some of them have already been opened by colleagues and colleagues, but I am pleased that the current coalition in its programme has written down and recognised quite a good part of these critical areas and has also written this down in its programme as a priority to be addressed in this mandate. So that I don't repeat myself, I'm going to leave out a few areas that I thought I'd discuss. I would briefly touch on labour matters, namely the areas of non-payment of salaries and social security contributions. Although some of these legal changes and safeguards have been adopted in the last period, we still face quite a number of offenders. What is unacceptable to me is that there are also state-owned companies among the offenders; the Post Office of Slovenia, as you mentioned. It was, I don't know, their contract company didn't pay for it – purely concrete cleaners and that. [[…]] In short, these areas of cleaning, and even if I attach a little bit to protection, these large companies, as well as state companies, are mostly outsourced, are actually hiring external services. As long as this is the case, companies that provide such services will compete only with low prices on the shoulders of really lousy wages. I think there's almost no man in the field of security and cleaners, not on this edge or on a minimum wage. This is a reflection mainly for state-owned companies. I don't think it's such a cost to finally clean offices, hospitals and everything we need. I do not think that this would be such a cost for this service to be carried out at least within public institutions. The other is agency work. This is one of the areas where it has been in recent years, an area where I myself have worked in the workforce. I have to say that it has changed considerably in recent years, including by tightening the conditions for gaining agency status, and the contracting of the contracts has been banned in recent years, but we still have quite a lot of issues, as you mentioned in the communication yourself – state companies, Luka Koper, IPS companies This is a modern slave for me to wait like in the movies waiting outside the factory and he came in this morning: you, you, come, I don't need you. [[…]] This seems to me to be unacceptable for state-owned companies these days. The same is the case with Revoz. This is a company, remember a little bit, we gave a ten-million-dollar incentive to work with us years ago, and we read about the discriminatoryness or difference between paying agencies and their workers. I know that some of these problems could be solved, as you yourself mentioned in the report, by tightly monitoring inspections for work. I am also so pleased that we are also aware of this in the coalition and that, on the Labour Committee, we have also decided that the number of inspectors will increase during this period and that we will also provide funds for the work of these inspection services. If I'm done with the issues of the older men's package. Encouraged information that age rises in Slovenia – a nice, stimulating information – should not be a problem. At the same time, I am concerned that, in the area of services required by this ageing population, we have not done enough or that the country does not follow this in the areas where it should, so to speak, in the area of services, home for the elderly. In particular, the report mentioned improvements in the situation, pointing out improvements in the housing situation for the elderly. I will also stress on the committee today that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has given a transitional period, I think by 2020, where it has set some standards and standards for these homes older. These are mainly single rooms or double rooms. In particular, from the example of the home of the elderly, which we have in Hrastnik, where we have transformed the former student home into a home, this standard, unless the state makes funds for this, will not be able to meet it in two years' time. The congregation is also aware of this. It is also part of the resources that the State should normally have as the founder of the home, we have already financed them ourselves, but if it is not in the budgetary resources to be allocated to the construction of the home and that this will only be left to concessionaires or private individuals, I firmly believe that we will have major problems in the next period in this area. Part of what you mentioned when I'm with the elderly. We, I think, ten, fifteen years ago, adopted pension legislation that gave those desired effects that they wanted, on the side of some stability to pay the pensions of the institution, while at the same time this pension reform, which gradually increased the age or age of 24 years, increased the age and made it possible for the state to create some systemic poverty today when it comes to retirement. Pension, the decision is for 40 years of work, 500 euros, and here's what's more, I think here's the information, if I say so again, for the 280 thousand pensioners who live on the threshold of poverty, I think it's not proud that we have to provide the conditions in this area for the generation that created this society with us to be able to survive normally. We are in the very period I have pointed out on the committee, but I meet with the pensioners every day; they freeze because they do not have the means to be in arranged apartments where they have central heating, but they cannot afford it because they do not have pensions to cover this cost. If I only touch on the scope of accessibility to services, which you also mentioned, the older population. I do not mean just those electronic ones, because this part of our society is not exactly computer literacy, as the country expects most in these administrative procedures. Above all, I am referring to the abolition of certain services that we have for these citizens. It's totally unacceptable, at least from my point of view, that we're shutting down the Post Office offices, this is a state-owned company. Can't be the only goal of Post Slovenia, but the end of the year creates profit. Slovenian postal services also provide important services to citizens and citizens. This should be taken into account. Are we going to have only a few more places where this service, state service, is large? That's why it's unacceptable. Not to say it's the same thing with banks. In short, if I finish slowly, thank you again for your work. But your team will do well, whatever you do in the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Member Primož Siter has the word, and he will get the word magi behind him. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, the well-respected guardian! Welcome to the National Assembly from my side. I am pleased that today's debate is always gravitating to this most pressing problem that we face today and here in Slovenia, and that is poverty. I would hope to place it on the top of my priorities or on the top of the challenges that concern us in the social state and require immediate action, immediate intervention. Even more painful is the data, or statistics, of poverty among employees. We are living at a time when the search for some strange things in labour law is becoming more and more intense and more and more present. On the one hand, we have this burning problem of penetrating work that we have been dealing with in recent years and more. Here, violators are very innovative. They are looking for new and new ways of justifying the tedious work of new names, so that we don't have to tell him to do a lax job, so that we don't have to tell him to take advantage, so that we don't have to tell him that we don't have to say that we're violating the human right to a decent pay for the job done, human rights for social and health security, human rights for a decent life. We know the espection of work processes, then the new creative solution came from agency work. And there's a new term with franchises, we know the problems from Luke Koper, we know the problems from the lists, we know the problems with espionage; they're everywhere else. We are now witnessing a new creative solution, which is a minimum hourly item, which is nothing more than a response to the promotion of the chauffeur's visa to the solutions by raising the minimum wage to achieve a decent payment, social security and all, with quality work done, the hard work of the working man in the set must come. I will therefore take this opportunity to stress the urgency of addressing this problem. You have faced this in your mandate, and I believe that your successor or heir will have to do so and that I invite her to do so with all seriousness and commitment. One problem in the context of labour law or the area of non-compliance – and today we have mentioned it in some ways – is the problem of people with disabilities. Again, one such classic example of an isolated group; groups that are already socially deprived. As a society, we should strive to make it possible for people with disabilities to live their normal lives, to work as normal as they can, and to be able and willing to contribute — in the infrastructure solutions themselves, if you want, or whatever you want. There are also many instances of non-compliance with labour law, or if I use or use the term of our southern neighbours to "take turns", which we all know and are very well known by employers. Two such cases of grave situations, which very clearly point to human rights violations and the promotion of poverty, are, for example, working persons with disabilities. For example, imagine a cleaner or a cook who constantly repeats certain movements, leading to her disability. And then, by the decision of the PIZ, you can no longer do this kind of work, you can no longer be in these forced positions – such disabled people, by the way, it's getting more and more – the decision comes, and then the employer decides very frigidly or finds out that he doesn't have a proper job, and then he gets fired in the pocket of the employment agency. Well, then there's the disability benefit, which is 60% of the disability pension. We have discussed this for a long and broad time on the committees when we discussed this report, and we have also served interesting numbers there. The average disability pension was €497 this June, and now we are counting 60% of that amount. And another type of grave violations of labour law and grave human rights violations is the situation of persons with disabilities involved in social inclusion programmes under the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act. They earn between 5% and 15% of the minimum wage, i.e. between €40 and €120. The biggest problem is that these people are involved in a work process that is essentially a market process that generates profits. People with disabilities who are involved in the work process that generates profits to someone else get between €40 and €120! Under some pretext of social inclusion, there is a room for, very clearly speaking, exploitation of the vulnerable group. I am aware that this is a very wide field that we cannot solve today and will require concrete action by the National Assembly, by civil society, by the Institute of Human Rights in the future. I believe we can take a step, two in this direction. However, it is certainly a good step to start in this direction, to point to the irregularities that I have now listed, namely the exploitation of workers at all levels, especially those who are already fundamentally deprived, whether disabled or penal workers, is the adoption and support of the Minimum Wage Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u39	Thank you very much. There's a MEP with a word. Marko Koprivc. Get Jože Lenart ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Guardian, distinguished representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I would touch on another topic that I think is very important, and today there has not been much talk about it, namely the protection of the rights of national communities in the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that our recognised indigenous national communities, both Italian and Hungarian, have highly guaranteed rights at least at the systemic level, which have somehow been agreed between our previous country and Italy or on the other side of Hungary. However, this does not mean that all things work as they should. In some ways, there are still, in certain areas, derogations from the system level and from concrete application in practice. But things are getting better. We can also see this from the Ombudsman's own report, where only a few recommendations have been made in this area this year. Let me mention one recommendation regarding the inclusion of Italian national communities in the Cultural Heritage Ordinance. We are talking specifically about the area of solinary. Second, the issue of financing public RTV services, specifically programmes for the Italian national community. For both matters, the Regional Department has already ensured that they are regulated or regulated by the Commission. Let me also stress the implementation of the measures of the Government in the field of bilingualism. This is very important, very important measures are and in this area more or less has been implemented in full this year, there have been no specific comments. Nevertheless, it is important to be very sensitive and considerate, as we know, to pay particular attention to the rights of vulnerable groups – in order to exercise the rights of vulnerable groups. There's never too many of those rights. In any case, it is right that minorities and other vulnerable groups are in some way positively discriminated against. And the area that we discussed a lot last night — hate speech. Regrettably, even hate speech has been given to national communities all too often. We need to pay attention to this and I think that this is the area in which we need to pay special attention in the future. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Member Jože Lenart has the floor. Mr Nina Maurovich should be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Guardian, the comprehensive report covers – and much of your work on this. My debate will be based on a narrower area, one of the fundamental human rights being the trial within a reasonable time. This area is touched to a large extent by man, and we probably don't even know him enough. In 2005, the Slovenian judiciary and the government suffered a severe blow from Strasbourg. The European Court of Human Rights there, whose judgments Slovenia must respect, has decided that the longevity of judicial proceedings in Slovenia is a systemic problem. It is therefore the responsibility of the State for long-term procedures, as it does not provide the appropriate conditions for a reasonable trial. I am convinced that in 2005 there was a kind of milestone in the Slovenian judiciary to speed up the implementation of measures to improve this area. As far as we have actually succeeded in this area at this time, it is partly clear from the report of the Ombudsman. Many of the problems are still mentioned in the report, also from today's reports and debaters. It is understood that the situation in particular areas has even deteriorated. In the media, we monitor daily bomb headlines that point to ineffective trial, to unreasonablely long arms, to the suffering of customers, to the human being in proceedings. So psychologically, financially, materially, and we could say something here. So where are the real reasons why we can't save them? However, we have more and more government and non-governmental institutions with more and more employees to effectively address this area. However, the true efficiency is still not detectable. “System problem”, decided the European Court of Human Rights! We are monitoring the situation in this area in the European Union countries, where competent people from different countries ensure that they have reasonable deadlines in all areas. That the judiciary is effective. We can monitor this with a number of media-supported statements, which we can all monitor. How do they do that? Systematic regulation, especially with the determination of professional workers in this area, who are consistent with legislation and are also protected by legislation. So let's look at their models, figure out where the systemic deviations are, and eliminate them. Let us recognize and eliminate the causes that prevent us from being effective for the good of man, but this is our common duty, honourable Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the government and institutions. Are we part of the task of making a concrete move in this mandate? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Member Nina Maurovich has the floor to prepare the Ambassador of the Magi. Carmen Furman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Respected and respected! Today, it has been repeatedly said that human rights are the foundation and foundation of everything. That's exactly why they're provided with the Constitution. There is no debate about this without question, and in human rights, in fact, everything begins. You know, I come into politics from a very different world, but it's called an economy. There is no debate in the economy, no debate, no hours, no days, no weeks, no months of discussions on the things that are the basis, the things that are the key; and this is the input information that we have. On the basis of this information, results, the economy is always taking immediate action. And there's information in front of us. This is it: 400 pages long report of the Ombudsman. This report is a balance sheet of our society, our country, our governance, our work performance. What are we doing? And we're having a debate. I'm sorry, but the people who watch and listen to you probably can't think very well at this point, because how can someone who has violated fundamental rights be satisfied with the fact that the Members we represent in the National Assembly continue to debate on 400 pages of the long report on human rights violations. Only results count in the economy, and I will never personally and never be satisfied with the fact that there would be no results. Dear Members and Members, the Government, if we want the results, we must shake hands. Right away, because we have mechanisms in our hands that enable people to live a much more decent life. We have these mechanisms in our hands. The respected guardian of human rights summed up: “People want to live from work.” And: “Where are honesty and righteousness?” With these sentences and words, we should be truly ashamed. In addition to all the violations cited in the report, one of the biggest problems in this country is related to decent work. With numerous infringements of labour law, which deprive citizens of their basic dignity. In order for me and you, whether in four years or in ten, fifteen years, not to be deeply ashamed of reading the Ombudsman's report again, I call on all of you to act immediately. Let this report be the basis for our business plan, if we can call it that. We are already going through judicial backlogs, labour legislation that will effectively protect everyone, both the worker and the employer. Let us punish violators quickly and effectively, and let this be an example to those other scoundrels who might come to their senses. Let's set up this state information system once before so that we don't need hundreds of inspectors because many procedures and checks could actually be generated completely by a long time ago, we are fully automated in 2018. And there's more. It's all in the annual report. Actually, it's enough for us to just fly over a gun. Let's be practical, let's be quick, let's be effective. These are all the characteristics that are most numbered in the economy. If we are indeed concerned with the welfare of citizens, we will all come together on all these issues without a populist escapade. Because they are at least degutant, if not completely useless to citizens. So please, let's start to have a little less debate. That's something that, after two months, gives me the most sting. I understand that this is a mechanism that protects democracy, but at the same time we must not abuse it. We do not always have to spend the time reported completely to the end if we have already told everything because it is also the virtue of a good rhetoric. We prefer to spend this precious time on actual work, but if we are to debate, we Members in particular must be aware in the light of yesterday's debate that the ethics of the public word begin here with us. The Slovenians are watching us, the Slovenians are seeing us, the Slovenians are listening to us, they're hearing us very well, and what's in here, they're feeling on their own skin. At the end of the day, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the extraordinary work of Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer. I believe that you have placed your successors with a very high bar. That's the way it is, and let's build it for ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Procedural. Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u46	In the light of the fact that we are being accompanied by citizens and citizens, it is right to respond. Look, the violation of human rights is taking place in all areas, but I cannot help but admit that it is unacceptable for a fellow Member to say that we should stop discussing, stop discussing and stop smoking, as it were, all the time. There's not enough. It is not irrelevant that we have in the National Assembly a committee on human rights, or petitions and human rights, led by colleague Eva Irgle. It is not irrelevant that we have the Ombudsman, so not with such debates. You have a government, and I don't know why you don't have it in a coalition agreement – that's all you'd write down is enough. So don't talk nonsense, but let people debate. But we're paid for it and we're elected!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u47	Thank you very much. What is your procedural proposal, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u48	My procedural proposal is that it is not limited in the debate of other fellow Members and Members and that it is not discussed that there should be no debate. We are in Parliament and Parliament to discuss. That's what the source of the name says.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The groups of Members shall, with the announcement of time, determine the scope of the debate by notifying Members and Members, including who will discuss the subject. I don't think there's really any point in delegating with the announcement of time. Be a role model. Each in his own group. There have been some changes and subsequent cancellations, so the Ambassador is Meira Hot, followed by Ambassador Mojca Žnidarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed guardian! Once again, I would like to welcome the excellent work done by the Ombudsman – and by your colleagues – both in preparing a truly systematic and comprehensive report for 2017 and in particular in carrying out your work in good faith. For the ever-increasing reputation of the Ombudsman's institution and the confidence of the public in him, you, Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer, are certainly to blame, for which I truly thank you. As mentioned earlier today, we have the responsibility of the Government, the National Assembly, all holders of public powers, the local community to address all systemic errors and violations of both the legislative and the exercise of public powers and, in particular, to ensure respect for constitutionally guaranteed human rights. From this point of view, I find it absolutely unacceptable, as I have seen in the report, that is the non-response to petitions and initiatives by citizens and citizens, both from the point of view of state authorities and local communities. Among other things, the report mentions the need for a wide variety of interventions by both the Ombudsman and the Administrative Inspectorate in order for the competent ministry to respond to the petition in question, after which this reply came after six months, but in this case the Ombudsman has undoubtedly found a violation of the principle of the constitutional right to petition. In my opinion, such behaviour is absolutely unacceptable. There is an urgent need to respond and respond to all kinds of initiatives and petitions from citizens and citizens. This is what I am talking about both state authorities and local communities, as well as us, fellow Members and Members of Parliament. It is also essential to ensure that matters are resolved within reasonable time. However, not only in the field of justice, but also in the field of administrative proceedings. It is in these procedures that the rights of citizens and citizens, such as the right to a grant, to social assistance and the like, are directly decided. I can only assure the Ombudsman that it is extremely unacceptable that an individual actually loses a certain right simply and only because his complaint was not decided within a reasonable time period, but took a certain State authority up to two years to make a decision. In such cases, answers and excuses such as lack of staff are simply not acceptable and cannot be accepted. I think that such behaviour is unacceptable, and we must all, both the Government and Members, as well as all the holders of public powers, strive to take measures that would simply eliminate such action. It is precisely due to disproportionately long procedures and backlogs that trust in the rule of law is falling. As has been repeatedly pointed out today, the failure of state authorities, the long-term inspection procedures, the transfer of responsibility from one ministry to another, from one authority to another, the failure to respond to petitions, is an exceptional problem which is essentially a series of years. There is a need for appropriate measures and accountability and for the system to be easily rectified. Everyone should also be concerned about the Ombudsman's observation of violations of the rule of law and of the social state. This too has been mentioned many times today. The fact is that the number of people who live in poverty or below the poverty threshold and who are not afforded the right to a decent life is still extremely high today. Above all, it is worrying that there are many older people among these groups, single elderly retired women. Sometimes I wonder how, without the help of humanitarian organisations or the organisations of citizens and citizens themselves, using SMS and so on to help these people, how would these people survive because we have been kept secret here. The extent of those mentioned by the Ombudsman in her field work is exceptional. Here we really need to take more appropriate measures, systematic measures and eliminate poverty and effectively ensure respect for the principle of the social state. In this context, the question of extending free legal aid may also need to be raised. The fact is, we live in a country that is highly irregular and in which even lawyers sometimes do not find themselves among all these laws and interpretations of laws that sometimes conflict with themselves. Right among the poorest, the most vulnerable groups of people are therefore persons who are not provided with legal aid or effective legal protection. Why? As the procedures for obtaining free legal aid are also extremely long-term. In this context, it is important to welcome the initiative of the Ombudsman to local communities, not only to state authorities, in order to provide local communities with free legal assistance. We in the Municipality of Piran, for example, have done this already in 2012, and I must say that it was very well accepted, because in the first step we realized that many of the rights of ignorant citizens and citizens cannot even fill out the free legal aid form themselves. They needed help here, not just with the forms of ministries, government authorities and so on. Therefore, here I also appeal to the local community to introduce this free legal aid primarily to help people communicate with the first-degree authorities, with instructions on deadlines, sometimes they have missed their hands just because they did not know the law in this context. Finally, I would like to thank the guardian again. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u51	Left, thank you very much. Your time is up. The next word is Mrs Mojca Žnidarič. Get ready, Mr. Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u52	Have a nice hello to everyone again! As I said in the introduction, and as the report says, criticism is absolutely necessary, but I would add that commendation is also needed. That is why I also thank the guardian and the team that he also gave some commendation in the report. I wish there were even more praises in the next report, but not so that someone would rather distribute them, but so that many things could be arranged for better in the coming year. First of all, I will focus on the problem of people with disabilities, because this has also been mentioned several times and because this is also quite close to me. The disputed legislation of forgiveness has been mentioned many times in the report of the Ombudsman and I agree. The various procedures before the disability commissions are very long. I agree and support the recommendation on the arrangements for joint medical performance. He also mentioned very low compensation for disabled workers. He was talking about 60% of the pension base. Yes, 60% of the pension base is given to persons with disabilities who are employed on the day of the disability commission, the unemployed receive even 40% of the pension base. These refunds start with 200 euros, which is almost half less than cash social assistance. Rights of persons with disabilities at the time of employment rehabilitation. You yourself have recommended in the report that the remuneration or reward be paid in proportion to the disabled’s hours, for example, if the disabled do not have 100 hours of work rehabilitation within a given month. You also recommended paying off lunch. I also recommend that this award be paid to all persons with disabilities who are involved in employment rehabilitation, because under the current legislation, people with disabilities who receive disability benefits at STIZ are not receiving at all, even though these compensations, as I said, are half below monetary social assistance. You have also highlighted the problem of family pensions for children who pay income from these very low family pensions. I've had a number of cases of moms. Of course, they could have been the fathers who warned me. When children lose one of their parents to a very low pension, this pension is usually low, and then, at the end of the year, they get an income decision to pay their income. I suggest that this matter be settled as soon as possible. On page 405, you highlighted the problem of children with special needs. It's about assigning permanent escorts, especially alerting children with autism. I can tell you or remind you that Mrs SMC Mrs Jasna Murgel has tabled, in her previous mandate, a new bill on child guidance with special needs, but unfortunately, it has not been adopted due to the various political games. She was invested in one of the last meetings when there was not even sufficient participation. This is also what I propose here because the matter is ready to be resolved as soon as possible. You've also made some positive points. You said that the violation of labour law is decreasing. It has been repeatedly exposed on all committees and also in the report that inspectors are understaffed. I must say, I have this information that, at the time of the adoption of the ZIPRS, the Budget Implementation Act, which will be held in the Government today, is a resource for ten additional inspectors. It also seems positive to me that at the beginning of this year, the Law on Enforcement was amended. Last year, 2 000 351 proposals for real estate executions for an amount, i.e. up to thousands of euros, are unacceptable. This was fortunately arranged early this year. I am also pleased by the expansion of the capacity of the House of Lukavaci in our Prlekia, which has been mentioned. There are many other issues among these 77 recommendations that could be highlighted. I wish as many of them were realized as possible. Here, too, I thank the Ombudsman of the Authority so far for the excellent work she has done and I wish her well on the way forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Starović is next and Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik is ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! If we walk a little through history, and I will not be too long, it will serve us with many steps and milestones that have led to human rights as we know it today. Following the desire for equality and mutual respect in ancient cultures and later in the philosophical debates on natural rights, we have also come up with the first written documents dealing with human rights and recognizing to all people the right to dignity that everyone is worthy of respect in his individuality, diversity, in his views and views. This respect for dignity has opened up new dimensions and opportunities for creativity as a human being. A colleague mentioned earlier in the economy, I'll take the case from the economy, all of you know brainstorming more or less or brainstorming. If you put together a team of different people in a company that knows different processes, and you provide them with an equal and secure position in the debate, that they can say anything stupid and nothing will happen to them, I say stupidity, and many times it turns out that such stupidity is some kind of thought that opens a whole new door. If we give a man dignity and respect him and acknowledge his position and equality, and all that human rights bring, we release creativity. And we need to be aware of that when we talk about it. Maybe we don't remember that enough. Only when a person is safe, when he feels good, when he can talk freely, without being called an idiot, if he says anything, can he make a real atmosphere and make people live in the full sense of the word. Undoubtedly, one turning point was the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted in 1948 after the terrible period of World War II, which brought very inhuman receptions. And that's when human rights became universal. These human rights have been accepted into their documents by all developed countries, I hope to claim. Among them is Slovenia. We have a special chapter on human rights, and in this special chapter we also have the Ombudsman, who sets up a mirror for us every year, how we do it. These were reported, if I am not mistaken, 23. Although there are some praiseworthy words in this report, what we have done well, which included both the ministries and the people on the ground, there is still too much violation. I hope that this will not be the case in the next report. What are human rights after all? Eleanor Roosevelt, a human rights fighter, wrote many years ago: “In small places close to home — so close and so small that they cannot be seen on any map of the world. Nevertheless, they are the world of an individual; the neighborhood where he lives; the school or college he attends; the factory, the farm or the office where he works. These are places where every man, woman and child strives for equal rights, equal opportunities, equal dignity without discrimination." The report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2017 will be supported by Alenka Bratušek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Microphone, please, if you turn it off. Thank you. Ms Lidija Divac Mirnik is next, and Eva Irgl is to be prepared as the final debater. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Hello, Madam Vice President, Madam Guardian, all representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! I have read the report and the recommendations we have received with interest as a new Member. However, there are two other matters that have already been mentioned in some context, however. Firstly, the Ombudsman, both in last year's and this year's report, points out the issue of systemic discrimination against disabled students, as already stated in last year's report 2016, also referred to the second paragraph of Article 11 of the Law on the Equalization of the Opportunities of Persons with Disabilities, which explicitly ensures that persons with disabilities have, I quote, “the right to adequate adjustments in the integration of the educational, school or study process and the right to adequate adjustment of the school or study process to the individual needs of the disabled person”. End of quote. The fact that the problem has not yet been resolved is also evident from the fact that in 2017 a student with disabilities turned to the Ombudsman, who experienced discrimination in the transport from home to college. Indeed, it is high time that two important areas of rights for disabled students be resolved as soon as possible. These are the possibility of extending the status of a disabled student and, secondly, the provision of transport services for disabled students. I must say that despite what is stated in the report that we have given meaning to this issue in the student homes when I was still running them. In spite of all the renovations of the student homes that we have been working on, and a few of them have been done in Maribor, we have been paying particular attention to the disabled students, the adjustments to the kitchens, the adjustments to the import paths to the elevators and also to the wide enough corridors. We devoted ourselves to this issue at the time. I would also like to thank the Ministry of Education or the Directorate for Investment for listening very much at this point, so these things should also be commended here. And there's another matter I'd like to point out in this report. I would like to highlight the functioning of educational institutions and training institutions. In the Ombudsman's report, the Ministry of Education should carry out as soon as possible a comprehensive analysis of its work with children and adolescents, which is now in the stage of implementation, which I am very pleased with. The Integrated Treatment of Children with Emotional and Behavioral Disorders in Education Institutions will thus test new methods and forms of work that will, on the one hand, ensure the early return of children and adolescents with emotional and behavioural disorders from the institution to the home environment, if possible, or into some independent life. If not, accommodation in one of the housing groups operating within the educational institution. On the other hand, educational institutions will also be encouraged to work preventively to make this accommodation as best as possible in the future. My humble opinion is that prevention is better than curative. I've done a lot of work myself, obtained quite a few licenses, and carried out matters concerning the disturbances of children and adolescents. It seems important and commendable to me that the Ministry is working and I hope that this project will come to life as soon as possible. Maybe just about college homes. There are currently quite a few disabled students living in the student homes of the University of Maribor. Among them is one who is blind and has his dogmate, called a guide dog. It has to be said that when a person sees this power, this energy that this boy can study, we who are healthy can only thank once again, I don't know who we are, who we are, who we are healthy, and we say: “All the credit to those who succeed with such and different deficits in life is to do what we do for ourselves. Therefore, I think it is important that all young people and students with disabilities who are facing problems, problems, appropriate measures and empathetics in our society actually allow them to live as normal as possible, and I want to do so. Thank you very much for this report and all the thanks for your work.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u57	Thank you very much. As the final debater, Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u58	Thanks again for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! First, let me say that I am very pleased that this debate today took place on an extremely cultural level, not like yesterday. If I make a little joke, I can say that it might not be bad if some Members came to the Commission's meeting on petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities several times – we always make sure that there is a debate at the cultural level, that we do not insult each other, that we do not use ad person's insults, but that we are actually talking ad rem, it is about content. Maybe we should start where colleague Anja Bah Žibert ended her procedural question earlier. Look, I used to follow the discussion of the colleague – as well as several other colleagues who are now in the National Assembly for the first time. I understand, maybe they don't know everything yet or not enough to know what their job really is. Here I must warn you that the work of the Member is precisely to discuss. To discuss legislation. To discuss reports coming to the National Assembly. There's no limit to that. Last but not least, we are running ourselves into that fundamental human right, that is the right to freedom of speech, to freedom of expression. It is right that we exchange views and discuss where things need to be improved. True, then, the executive branch of power is on the move. This executive branch of the Authority is the one that must ensure that legislation is actually implemented and that the things the Ombudsman reminds us of, which we remind the Human Rights Commission, which is also recalled every so long by NGOs, which we also invite to our Commissions, and which we also remind Members that are then actually being implemented. And here's the problem. It is not that Members are discussing, for this is actually our basic work. I have been accompanying the work of human rights guardians for a very long time in this National Assembly. Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer is not my first guardian to accompany her in my work. I've already given quite a few reports to the Ombudsman through the hearing, and I know that at this time we have all done a lot of work together, those who worked on this committee. The Ombudsman, as one of the supervisory mechanisms for the protection of human rights and the Commission I am leading, is the one to keep an eye on this and to keep this in mind. At this time, I must say that it is precisely because of our common warnings that we have moved some things forward. Not all of them. Some things have remained open, and I am sad that they drag on for ten years or more. I mentioned earlier where I see the key problems in the position of the Group of Members. But here let me say that I find it a very big problem to have some institutions that should give answers to citizens and citizens when they ask for them, because citizens and citizens face this so-called institutional ignorance. During last year, the nanny said it was a matter of carelessness. It also notes and repeats today that they are facing this problem. Let's say the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities doesn't answer after three years. This has also happened, which is unacceptable to me and there is something very wrong with the system that it cannot undo. But we, too, face this on a committee, and I repeatedly point out that citizens and citizens are here to be helped by the state to answer their questions. Since they do not respond, they then ask for the Ombudsman's answers, ask for answers to the Commission for Human Rights in the National Assembly, and then sometimes after several hours we get certain answers, which we then transmit to citizens and citizens. As I have already said, I have been monitoring the work of human rights guardians long enough to make some kind of comparison between their work. Everyone has asked for their own way of doing things, which is important because the Ombudsman is still the authority in this area and it is right to shape his own self. That's how people recognize him. Over time, it has also come to light, or it has proved to be, that the Guardians actually have increasing power and influence in public, so it is also important how certain opinions represent, how objective they are in matters, and how they actually warn when human rights are violated, regardless of which side they occur when we look politically. The Ombudsman is the person who, with his autonomy and his manner of prestige, if we say so, because he has a great impact on citizens and citizens, when necessary, raises his voice. What I can personally do is, if I make one quick comparison, but most of all, it didn't bother me, but I expected more from all the human rights guardians so far, is that more often we would use the 9th Article of the Law on Human Rights, that is, that we would react on their own and not only on the basis of the reports they receive. I must say that when we have pointed this out to the Ombudsman several times in the last term, the Ombudsman has also applied this article more, which I consider to be very good to her, of course. Even now, at the meetings of the new candidates, which were represented by the parliamentary groups in the Slovenian Democratic Party, I will not now say what we talked about, but I can mention that I have asked everyone how article 9 of the Law on the Ombudsman sees, and then everyone has said, roughly, that, yes, the Ombudsman has to apply this article repeatedly or must be more self-initiative in this work, not just waiting for the applications and initiatives of the affected individuals. So the irresponsibility, the so-called institutional ignorance and carelessness, I think it's a big problem that, after most of the E.R.s, we only get the answers after the E.R.s, I don't think it's right for those who are in such severe distress that they don't actually see a way out. Here I must say that I have had quite a few very good, beautiful and truly human experiences with the Ombudsman in all this work, since I have been leading the committee and Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer is the guardian, for which I personally thank them. However, as regards the general violations of human rights themselves, let me say, we have been on the Commission for many years now that the greatest violation of human rights in the field of justice is not so unusual. Most of the time, they're alerting them to long-term procedures. This is also pointed out by the Ombudsman again in the reports each year. I'm not gonna say that some things haven't improved in court. They are also likely because we clearly keep reminding ourselves of this. But it's still a big problem. If these procedures are actually taking too long, if they are too long, some things are dragged in over 10 years and over, then tell me what remains of the life of the one who is in the courts and demands his right, and when it finally turns out that he was right, on the other hand, we know what was going on with him. It's a very personal squeeze, and here I think there's more to be done. We started with the Lukend project, no doubt. Then some mechanisms were put in place to accelerate this, that there was not so much waiting kind, if I say so, for consideration. But we still have a major problem in this area, and we are regularly reminded of this by the European Court of Human Rights. Another area where we meet, including on the committee, the Ombudsman repeatedly stresses violations of labour law. Look, I have a feeling that in this country work is not appreciated as it should be, and work must be returned to value, because work is what strengthens us all. In a way, it gives us life's energy, power, and social networking. In short, a citizen has to get a job. And that's what the state has to take care of. Establish such an environment so that a citizen can get a job. When he gets a job, he has to be paid fair and square for doing it. In our case, some do not receive paid or social contributions, which is a disgrace, for their honest work. Not even social contributions. Not to mention what is going on with the workers and that there is also a need to deal with fraudulent employers who do not create such conditions so that these anomalies do not happen. 'Cause here's where the personal hardships are. Sometimes I feel that we give too little to what is actually happening in an individual when he is in such difficult situations. Otherwise, we're laying down legislation whether or not it's being implemented, okay. This humanity is very important. How we feel about these people and how we treat them, how we see them. Will we strengthen their dignity, or will we suppress it even more because we do not solve their problems and problems? The third or third set of human rights violations has recently been from the social state and increasingly from the area of health and health care. I mentioned earlier where the biggest problem is that the problem is in too long waiting lines when 250,000 people are violated human rights because they are waiting for an unreasonable period of time, and they suffer severe pain. At the end of this debate, I would like to say the following. In all these years in politics and since I have been leading this committee, it seems to me that we have opened up very important topics that have sometimes stirred up the Slovenian public, but today I see that it was the same. Because we opened them and we let them know they existed. They were intriguing at times, but of great importance to everyone who lives in this country. It seems important to me that we support institutions such as the Ombudsman, because he may not always do everything the way he thinks he does, but he has the power, if he knows and can do it, to listen to a man. Man, not just to someone, but to a man. Therefore, I think it is important that we encourage this and that we allow that we can actually express our views in these debates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u59	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the debate between Members and Members. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which he will be given the floor by a representative of the Government, or representatives of the Government and the proposer. First of all, I invite Mr Gregor Strojin, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members, the respectable guardian of human rights! In the first stage, I would like to remind you of what the Minister of Justice has already said. Since 2016, the Ministry of Justice has been designated as the coordinating body within the Government, which is responsible for the systematic approach to human rights protection in Slovenia and is also the coordinating preparer of the report with individual contributions from the departments. These contributions have already been presented in more detail on the Commission led by Mrs Irgle. As well as my colleagues from individual ministries, we listened carefully to today's debate and noted your questions, concerns. As part of the time we have available, we will also try to identify or tell them what has been done in the past period, what is being done, and, above all, on my part, I assure that we will listen to these recommendations and try to implement them in the future. And not only that, we will try to follow from them some conclusions for proactive action, a search for solutions that are not directly mentioned in the recommendation itself. A representative of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will take the floor and then we will tell the other colleagues what is going on with the individual departments.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Bredo Božnik, State Secretary from the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u62	Your Honor! Within the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, I would like to respond to the problem of persons with disabilities, highlighting two laws that will soon be in force. This is the law on the social inclusion of persons with disabilities, which will improve the living conditions of persons with disabilities, and the law on personal assistance. I must say that we do not insist that we do not answer the guardian regularly or even the opposite, and we regularly cooperate with him. However, the resolution of complaints about rights from public funds does not take place within as long a period of time as has been the case in the debate. With regard to measures against leniency, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities in 2016 joined specific targeted activities for more decent work and prepared a document for decent work with a set of possible measures that would contribute to such work. In agreement with the social partners, some of them have already been adopted and implemented. These are systemic changes in the area of inspection and labour market regulation. From the point of view of the systemic approach, however, we would like to draw up a comprehensive set of measures to address the leaky situation that will be established within the framework of the established Interdepartmental Working Group for the planning and implementation of measures against leniency, or the preparation of a strategy to combat leniency. However, as I am here today on behalf of the Ministry of Health, we agree to continue. In the context of the Ministry of Health, this would also give them a response. On the basis of the Ombudsman's recommendations, the Ministry of Health is actively working to help remedy any irregularities or shortcomings identified within its competences. Let me give you some concrete work-related content. A novelty of the Mental Health Act. The proposal to amend the law is expected to be submitted to public hearing by the end of 2018. Delimitation of competence between representatives of the patient's rights and representatives of the rights of persons in the field of mental health. The Ministry, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, is already preparing a joint meeting of representatives of patients' rights and representatives of the rights of persons in the field of mental health, whose primary purpose will be to contact each other and discuss open issues. Adoption of a national programme for mental health and the development of appropriate services for mental health in the community that will allow deinstitutionalisation and short-term implementation in institutions. The Resolution on the National Mental Health Programme 2018-2028 was adopted by the National Assembly in March 2018. At the Ministry of Health, it is estimated that the implementation of the resolution on the national mental health programme will enable the development of alternative forms of treatment of people with mental health problems, which will also affect the reduction in the number of persons in need of institutional protection in special social institutions. The resolution pays great attention to reducing regional disparities and improving access to mental health services in the local environment, and in 2019 the first mental health centres for children and adolescents and the first mental health centres for adults, including mobile crisis intervention teams, will be established. Establishment of a Protected Psychiatric Department for Children and Adolescents at the University Psychiatric Clinic Ljubljana, a regulatory regime for psychological and psychotherapeutic activities, where it is worth mentioning that a resolution on the National Mental Health Programme was adopted in 2018 and an action plan for the implementation of this programme. The Action Plan provides that the draft Regulation should be drawn up by the end of 2018 and adopted by the end of 2019. The working group for the preparation of legal arrangements for psychotherapeutic activities, which includes representatives of relevant psychotherapy organisations, has been appointed and has already started work. As regards the involuntary placement of persons with dangerous behaviour in protected departments of social security institutions, it is primarily the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, which runs the working group set up by the Government. I can confirm that this working group is working, that it is meeting regularly and that the first plans and strategies are already in place to address this situation. It goes on to mention the identification of mandatory psychiatric treatment health care providers, where the Ministry of Health will actively seek to increase the number of mandatory psychiatric treatment providers, as the main point of the Ministry of Justice is to centralise this activity through the publication of the above-mentioned order. In the framework of pedophilia at the Ministry of Health, they are actively solving the problem and have actually started with it years ago when they called for more specializations in this area. In 2017 there were 24 pedopsychiatricians, out of which four specialists completed their specialization in 2017 and new jobs were created for them through the Ministry of Health, namely the Health House of Kranj, UKC Maribor, the University Psychiatric Clinic of Ljubljana and the Health House of Trbovlje. The resolution on the national mental health programme establishes a network of 25 centres for children and adolescents at primary health level. In 2019 they will start working such centres in the health care home in Postojna, Kočev, Trbovje, Celje, Ptuj and the Rakitna Institute. The areas are considered to be deficient and cover the area of 100,000 children and adolescents, which is about 25%. In the context of specific protective measures, it is worth mentioning that, in early 2018, an extended professional college as the highest expert body adopted recommendations and guidelines for the application of specific psychiatric protective measures as a new complementary version. I would also like to highlight the child's heart surgery problems that are being addressed and actually approached by the Ministry of Health, aware of the acute problems. The Minister shall hold intensive discussions with all stakeholders to arrange this area as soon as possible, as they are aware of the importance of the safety of children and their parents and of the safe treatment of the priority. With regard to waiting periods, the Ministry of Health is seriously and very responsible in preparing a strategy and is addressing both options and ways of addressing the issue of waiting periods. Public data on Day 1. Ten. 2018 point to a trend in the reduction of waiting periods and the Ministry of Health will do its utmost to reduce these waiting periods in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u63	Thank you, too. Mr Simon Zajc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, has the following word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Dear Members, respectable guardian of human rights! Today's debate drew attention to the fact that we have not yet aligned the legislation with the amendment to the Constitution that took place in the previous term when we wrote down the right to drinking water in the Constitution. That is true, but let me tell you, within 14 days, the Government will establish a new inter-resort working group to be responsible for drafting this legislation. This time we will coordinate this group at the Ministry of Environment and Space. This time, this group will be narrower to make us more efficient, more operational. We at the Ministry of the Environment and Space are not waiting for this working group to be set up, but we have already started preparing amendments to this legislation ourselves. So I am pleased that, as soon as possible, you will be able to get to the bottom of all these legislative changes that are necessary in order to harmonise the laws by entering the right to drinking water into the Constitution. At that time, of course, we expect your support and cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Next, I invite Mrs. Mojco Ramšak Pesec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Honourable Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Honourable Guardian, Comrades! I would like to make an explanation of the Ombudsman's recommendation regarding the amendment of electoral legislation, which has also been specifically raised in the debate today. In particular, the recommendation highlights arrangements regarding the manner and time limits for exercising the right to vote by post. Since the law in force provides that such an intention must be given by the electoral beneficiary no later than 10 days before the date of the vote, of course, a variety of unforeseen circumstances, such as hospitalisation or any other absence, which makes it impossible to vote in person and is, in view of such cases, subsequently limited and not effectively regulated by the effective exercise of the right to vote by individual beneficiaries, may occur during this period of 10 days prior to the vote. As early as 2011, the government had drawn up a proposal for a law amending electoral legislation, according to the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, which it had forwarded to the National Assembly for adoption, but the legislative procedure in the National Assembly had failed. The novel has not been adopted, but this novelty has also addressed this issue. Then was the next attempt to amend the electoral legislation in 2015, where the bill was sent. This bill also regulated this area, but also this bill was not adopted, the legislative procedure ended in failure in the National Assembly, taking into account that more than the other laws are required to amend electoral legislation. So, unfortunately, despite the fact that the Government has recognized a number of years and notes that this is indeed necessary to change, that there is some legal void regarding the possibility of regulating elections in these specific exceptional circumstances, the amendment of legislation on this issue has not yet been implemented. In this regard, the Government's response was also that, in the next amendment to electoral legislation, it would try again to regulate this area. The proposal for a law prepared by the Government, adopted and forwarded to the National Assembly, is an attempt to regulate this area, whether this area will then be settled, and is then in the hands of Members and the adoption of legislation in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u67	Thank you, too. The next one has the word "ma'am mag." Melita Šinkovec, State Secretary, Ministry of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Tina Hefferle, Honourable Ombudsman of Human Rights, Vlasta Nussdorfer, with co-workers, honourable Members, honourable Members! At the Ministry of the Interior and in the police, we estimate that cooperation between us and the Ombudsman is going very well. For us, the existence of the Ombudsman is an additional control mechanism, which, in addition to all the existing control mechanisms in both the Ministry and the police, is an important element. That is why we are striving to respond quickly to the Ombudsman's reactions, while at the same time striving to take the Ombudsman's instructions into account and incorporate them into our operations. This means that we are working towards a consistent respect for human rights in police procedures, appropriate communication and respectful attitude of police officers towards all citizens. We also strive to respect and take into account other initiatives relating to the competence of the Ministry and to try to achieve positive results in cooperation with other departments and ministries and legal persons. Respect for the Ombudsman's instructions is also demonstrated through an education system in the police, where police officers are constantly improving in the field of human rights protection. In order to assist police officers in their work, a computer application has also been established to provide insight into the legal basis and also to review individual cases of practice. This gives them additional help in their field work. I would like to point out that the police also take into account the findings of the Ombudsman's appeals procedures and initiatives in directing and directing the work of police units. The Ombudsman, Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer, highlighted the need to respect the rights of each individual. At the Ministry and the police, we continue to strive for respect for human rights and freedoms, especially in the procedures relating to the seizure of liberty, the treatment of minors and vulnerable groups. The protection of personal data is also consistently respected in contact with the external public and protects the rights of victims in the local environment. In the event of complaints against police work, we are also seeking a permanent independent, impartial and professional hearing of complaints brought by individuals against the work of police officers. The Ministry's priorities in this area are therefore focused in particular on ensuring the appropriate transparency of the appeals procedures and on improving the quality of performance of measuring procedures in police units. I can conclude that all the activities of the Ministry and the police are aimed at the most professional, professional and legitimate performance of the tasks, with the Ombudsman's recommendations being an important guide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u69	Thank you very much. As the last one, I give the floor once again to Mr Gregor Strojin, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u70	Thank you very much. As regards the area of the Ministry of Justice and the recommendations of the Ombudsman. In its 2017 report, the Ombudsman made 15 recommendations which dealt in part or in full with the Ministry of Justice’s work area. The review of the implementation of the reports reveals that two recommendations have been fully implemented, three have been partially implemented, and ten of them represent a permanent task. There are no outstanding recommendations. In the course of the debate, considerable emphasis was placed on the trial within a reasonable time frame or on the so-called judicial backlog. Here I must point out that in this area, both at the level of the Ombudsman and the Council of Europe in recent years, a decision has been adopted or that this is no longer a systemic problem. The report before you, the 2017 report of the Ombudsman, which is before you, states, inter alia, that progress has been made in the area of reducing judicial backlogs and shortening time, but that individual cases of long-term judicial proceedings are still being identified. In December 2016, the Council of Europe adopted a final decision in the Lukend case, which concluded its supervision of the implementation of the 264 European Court of Justice rulings. There, too, it was found that the trial within a reasonable time in Slovenia no longer constitutes a systemic problem. In order to allow for a longer trial in individual cases, it is clear. The judiciary and the Ministry of Justice are aware of this and tools and mechanisms are in place to ensure that matters are dealt with on a case-by-case basis, either speed up or take action in this regard. The discussion mentioned, inter alia, the problem of secondary deficits. I suppose it was a lapsus, because Slovenia is at the top of efficiency in Europe, we are more than half the average time, the average time is there for about 200 days, we have about 100 days on average. I suppose, however, that lapsus was the result of efforts to reduce the return of court files to first-degree courts from a second-degree perspective. In this regard, legal tools have been adopted to enable the judicial proceedings to do so in civil proceedings. In this regard, amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure, which will soon be before you, are also proposed after an expert and inter-ministerial hearing. Trust in the judiciary is a permanent task of stakeholders, not only of the judiciary, but also of others who are often overlooked, but are also involved, lawyers, state lawyers, notaries, prosecutors, who all represent an important segment of the implementation of justice. If we link the issue of trust to the question that I previously touched, the longevity of the procedures, I can see that trust was the highest when the procedures in Slovenia were the longest around 2000. The results of the reforms of the 1990s have led to backlogs, but this has not been discussed for a long time, and only in the first half of the previous decade has it begun to deal with the issue of backlogs. Now we are still talking about them, but right now there may be some other problems if we don't deal with real diagnostics. These cases concerning Lucando were also brought before a court in Strasbourg in 2006. As it is said, the tools and their implementation have been adopted and implemented at this time, and we are developing new tools and trying to influence the way stakeholders in the judiciary are doing them more effectively, the ones already available to them. We need to think in the long term, proactively, not only at the level of the executive branch, but all stakeholders. Similarly, I can identify myself with the question of enforcement procedures, which was also mentioned today. The recommendations are not presented as a problem or as one of the recommendations. However, I believe that this is a matter of thinking based on past cases. In February of this year, the amendment to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance was explicitly defined on these issues, i.e. real estate enforcement due to a small debt. Here we can see that in the case of low amounts, all protectors are now in law and practice, to try a softer measure or to postpone enforcement, taking into account the aspect of proportionality. To conclude, we listen to the recommendations, we try to implement them, but of course it is up to all of us. I thank the Ombudsman for his recommendations as well as for his work throughout the mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u71	Thank you very much to all government representatives. I now give the floor to the guardian of the Authority Nussdorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u72	Thank you very much, distinguished Vice-President Tina Heferle, distinguished Members and Members of Parliament, and of course all representatives of the executive branch of power, who have insisted to the end! Let me say that today, after the six presentations of the Ombudsman's report, I was probably even surprised at your election and your answers, because you have finally made a great promise to this national council that you will do a lot of things. For the first time, I also met the Minister of Justice, who attended this final presentation of the Ombudsman's report, although the former Minister was always well represented by the Secretary of State. But today, as we can see, your occupation was quite numerous. Of course, I also have to commend the entire national assembly, because today we have all been extremely patient, constructive presentation of your opinions, you have said a lot, which also indicates that you have read our, though for a long time, comprehensive report well. Many have touched the same subject. That means they're really hot. Some of you have made a special point. Really, at first I didn’t have enough time to slowly touch individual subjects, now that I have a little more, I might have shrugged some of the thoughts that came from the sent - out groups — what you said, what might have touched me even more. Thank you for all your praises, indeed, even with the guardian we have introduced them, for it seems to me that it is right for the Keeper, although he builds power, to notice movements. This is encouraging to all who may see that we do not only see all the bad, but to see if anyone can apologize — and this is a beautiful gesture — if he returns the damage and changes his way of working. Therefore, at the edge of our reports, you can also see praise here and there, and I hope that, especially given the assurances, there will be more and more. Since we are already towards the end of November, you can think that it is already being created – it is not yet written, but it is also creating – the latest report, so for 2018, my last one, and we will probably be able to include all these promises of government in it, and of course we will also be monitoring them. I decided that at the end – I think this will be January – I will give another special report. So a review of six years and six years recommended: what has happened unrelentingly and where the progress has been, what has happened in these years. I could say and give you this ball, because you are the ones who will – I hope so – have accepted our recommendations, which you have also accepted in the past, which you have committed to governments that were then to follow our recommendations, and you could say that this is not a matter of the Keeper, because it has already been accepted. However, if you have looked at our latest reports, we have already touched on the implementation of the recommendations in the introduction to each chapter. This seemed very important to me, because it was the only way we could go forward when we realized that a lot of things had not been taken back. And you've noticed that a lot of people today. If I went in kind and somehow answered or commented on the parliamentary groups, just like you did. The first was the New Slovenia Group. I am particularly pleased to see that, at the end of my term of office, I have done well as a guardian. Indeed, of the 86 votes of your 4 then I did not get, but it is even better to find out that they finally noticed that you did something, of course with a good team of colleagues and colleagues, but it is never too late for commendation. So thank you, too. Mrs Ludmila Novak asked about this and, in fact, she probably often hears that people are also dissatisfied with our answers, in particular about rudeness. That's definitely true. We also find this in the field when we have to explain to many people that they are either too early or too late for the guardian. Someone comes even with a judgment of the European Court or a legal case just in front of the rubble when there is nothing more to be done and wonders that the Ombudsman cannot change his mind. We have a hierarchy of legal remedies, we have ways that people need to use, and it is all the more important that we have free legal aid, as the Member has said, in the congregations as well. This is always our question when we go to congregations. We even did a survey on this, which municipalities offer free legal aid to their people. That doesn't mean lawyers from start to finish, but that kind of help that would open up an opportunity for people and tell them that it's time that there's no time for them to put this or that. Because people are really disappointed and they ask me if my colleagues and colleagues: is there really no longer a chance? But we are trying, and I can assure you that in our written answers we are increasingly explaining people's ways. Ways that are still available, which door to open. Of course, many are also closed or quickly closed or people are unavailable, so we say that good governance is what is very important. To make every official in the country aware of his duties, even more than his duties, and to do for people knocking on doors, as much as possible. True, this is true of many debaters — why did we expose the E.R.? It seemed very important to me to inform the state institutions that we would say to them: “If you do not respond to our inquiries quickly and immediately, how do only people feel, how powerless do they come to you and wait for your answers?” And indeed, some things, despite the promise of a better life, took too long. If someone is waiting for a social solution, whether, as you said, he will have studied earlier than he will get a scholarship, hopes, hopes for a long time, can hope for nothing and is a negative solution, but, you know, too long waiting can't benefit these people. You also drew attention to interdepartmental cooperation. It's very important, you warn many. This should practically not be the case and the promise that students with disabilities will finally be truly heard throughout Slovenia, not only in experimental places such as Ljubljana, Maribor, Celje, this is a promise of a better future. If anyone deserves it, they deserve it. In fact, everyone, but the disabled are so much more. International cooperation was also mentioned with DeSUS. That's right. There was no time to present everything. But if you look at our report, it has a special chapter. Even otherwise, we started to write a report. If you were able to get lost years ago in the third chapter, which represented our work, employees, everything we do and numbers, you could figure out that we've put this first, so first, when you look at our report, you go into our institution, find out what it's done, how many people it has, how many departments. We even painted it. Long-term care. I'm counting on you. Minister Fakin, who came to visit us recently, is also counting on you. He says that such an extensive marriage requires a strong political will that it is very difficult to accept. We've been taking it too long. Home. Many also said Croatia. Why do people go to Croatia? Also because luckily they live at the border and hope to pay less or even get a place there. We are also checking the matter this year, because there are many rumours spreading, how it is there, why so many people are leaving, whether they are well cared for. Since we've dealt with the elderly this year, we'll report it as well. And again, even with Desus, people with disabilities are mentioned. That's right. If a lot of customers mention it, it means you'll definitely stand up for it. I am also pleased with the representatives of both national communities, for we have given very much attention to them. I began to listen to comments that the national communities were also deprived, that the hate speech was particularly present with or against the Hungarian national community and that we decided to take a look at it, including with the routes to the territory to Primorsko and Pomurje, both national communities, how the administrative authorities operate, how the courts operate. We've praised a lot of people. I think there's also an inspectorate, a market inspectorate. For it was interesting for us, whether bilingual is respected or not. As we have heard today, both representatives of the national communities appreciate this work. One could say that there are two Members, few people, but each national community deserves attention. Last but not least, it is necessary to respect everyone's rights. The following was therefore a party to the SDS. There has been a lot of talk about detected violations, and concerns have been raised. It's about energy poverty. It's true. We participated in the Commission's meetings on petitions, and one of them was also this. I must say that with regard to the first reviews, when I took up my job of not attending meetings, we tried whenever it was possible, at least one, as you said, if not one of the deputies alone, to attend your meetings. There have been very, very different topics and here again I can commend all the committees that have taken our report seriously, in particular our home commission every year and, of course, the National Assembly. There was also talk of discrimination against persons with disabilities in the courts. True, the Secretary of State has explained that things are improving. We also really thought of returning from the second stage to the first, because all of this prolongs procedures and then we find that things twice, three times, come back and then somehow people give up, forget about them, and the solution that comes to them is definitely recognized for someone. You mentioned the environment, the inspection services, why the accepted recommendations were not implemented. It's true, it's right that you point that out. Of course, I can also answer those who ask me how it is with the broader questions. Of course, we have Article 9, which allows us to also act on our own initiative, but here we are tied to those who are affected and have to land. So we need their personal information here, without them, we can't verify the facts. However, we are increasingly deciding on some broader issues. If you've been following us and you've read the report for this year, you'll find that wherever it was burning, it smelled, wherever it touched the environment, human health, we've opened our own initiative. As you can see, the deputies are changing, so we're all here today. Some up on the balcony, others down below, so we're all listening to everything that's been said today and we're gonna remember and we're gonna listen to the magnetogram what the government has promised. We never, really never deal with matters selectively. Of course, our answers now do not like one another, now others. But maybe that's right. That's how you can see that we're solving each other's affairs. But never, when two people are fighting and have very different views, can we accept one that everyone would like, but I hope that we have been very fair about it. Health care, waiting types, there were so many consultations, so many open questions, when will it be better for people when they can get to a doctor, a dentist, when all these additional services, physiotherapy, orthodontics, will be available to all. I'm always sure of that in the field. Of course, some wish that the annual report would be shorter. That's what I want. Of course, there are so many things that come to us that raise questions that we like to present, even if there may be only one, we prevent others. Sometimes we find out about one story and by reacting quickly in the media, I hope that you have noticed, we prevent these violations from spreading. This was the case once when scholarships were awarded for deficient professions. We reacted extremely quickly. The Minister responded by cancelling the invitation to tender. If we waited, we could get very many initiatives, we would say that we had so many in the area of scholarships, but I think it's very important to work fast. Many of you have highlighted the disabled, the disability commission. It is true that we hope that we will be able to work better in this area, because the people who come here, especially in the field, feel that they have a lot of pressure. They come to a place where they're home, hard, with diseases that are difficult. We can't judge whether they're for disability pension or not. However, I must say that they don't even resent the final decision as much as the relationship, the attitude towards the person who comes before the commission and expects it to be always heard and will give it right, and that he may come later when the situation is even worse, but that this relationship will be extremely positive. The Health Act – a lot more is missing. When you mention the Roma, I must say, you have clearly noticed in our report that we actually have the same vats for everyone. We warn that the Roma problem is extremely difficult, that the child is not to blame, that he is born into a Roma family that may not have so many years of water that he will have to take to the cemetery in a bottle, that he may be born without his own bed, that there is no electricity. It's not his fault. The Roma kid needs a daycare. He needs a school. He needs a company to help him. Also, the Ombudsman is faced with serious problems of his own by people living near Romani settlements. There was talk of a toothless tiger. This may be the thing I'm listening to, it's true. But I don't think we're toothless. That's what you all find out today when you're making that promise. So we have teeth, you have more teeth, and I think the government has wise teeth. The next customer is LMŠ, List of Marjan Šarca, which also warned children with special needs about disabled students. It's true. We're committed to it, too. I remember that, unfortunately, when they go to college, they decide whether the faculty will have the appropriate space, whether they will get an interpreter, they write to us many times, but probably not enough, because obviously there are more of these problems. So we will always pay attention to students with disabilities with special needs. It was about online communication. We must not forget that it was the Ombudsman who suggested that on the Internet, which should be public space, there should be at least an offence if the offence of hostile speech was so difficult to prove. The trial was mentioned within a reasonable time frame. Of course, it was better, 2005 and 2000, when we were given a massive warning from the European Court of Justice, it was a serious breach. I am now pleased with all these reviews of judgements and also with the realization of them. However, I must also draw attention to the unfulfilled judgments of the Constitutional Court. These, too, must be observed in the temple of democracy. True, you also talked about educational institutions and about compulsory reading, which should be the annual report. And I remembered the former Secretary of State who said that our report should be a mandatory reading for every minister who accompanied him every day in his office to see what he had already done and what he had not yet done. They count the results, and the LMŠ also said it nicely. Sensitivity by the SD, this is the next party, respect for rights, mentioned our novel. We are truly promising from it, and we hope that we will be able to do much about the promotion of human rights. There's something else I'd like to say here. If you notice, Members, people on the ground who have been violated by human rights and are alerting you, send them to the Ombudsman, including those who come to the Human Rights Commission. Then there was another talk about the disability compensation, which was shamefully low. It's true how a disabled person can survive with this, and he needs more than one who's not disabled. You've talked about poverty. That's the right thing to do. I hope one day we can say it's eradicated, it's gone. It is not necessary to collect stoppers, not need to seek assistance and collect EUR 5 euros, one euro for school supplies, at the beginning of the school year. It's bad, too, some of you mentioned that employees go to the Karitas or the Red Cross, and yet they're lucky to have such an organization or some other, so not just those two who help people in distress. There has also been a lot of talk about labour legislation, agency work, older people, free legal aid, water, and there are also prospects for better, I hope. Those I forgot to answer, I think it was the first party, ten days before the elections and the inability to vote. We heard the secretary of state today. It's true, but it's been dragging for too long. We had already thought to abandon this recommendation, but we felt it was so important that we included it in the annual report. SMC spoke of hatred and hate speech. I reiterate that we wanted to see a possible infringement on the Internet, which is public space. About the importance of our recommendations, they also saw praises that do well, and again disabled people, forgiveness, execution. Even in the field of executions, this was a common theme for many debaters, something has changed. But we can still hope that the social work centres under the new legislation will take advantage of the possibility that when someone gets in trouble, they will solve it in time, because the debt of €6,10,20 000 is still too much for the employees. Finally, Levica, who of course draws attention to housing policy, which is not yet what we would like, especially for young people. True, the square meter of the apartment is too expensive, and people who do not have a regular job can't even get a loan. There was also talk about the work of inspections, today promises about all the more inspectors. You could say that you wouldn't even need them anymore because people would respect the law and they could do anything else, but if they didn't, then, unfortunately, even repression, because it's too late for prevention. There was also talk about the Law on Foreigners, which is still in the Constitutional Court. Poverty. For espa, I must remind you of the successful demand for a constitutional assessment when we have succeeded in doing so in the Constitutional Court, that those who earn less can also prove that they earn less, and that it is not just because they attribute some income to them that they do not have. And again, the escorts of children, disabled people, children with special needs. We also talked a lot about this in Cel. It is right to stress that decisions for these children are made as soon as possible and that we can say that we have met the expectations of those people who are fighting every day, as was said at the end of the day, you do not know what it is like to be disabled and to have a dog accompanying us. We have also worked to ensure that even some do not know that a blind dog belongs in a store. Alenka Bratušek – about dignity and the importance of the guardian. Thank you so much for all this. True, the importance of the guardian is increasing, and I am also very pleased as a guardian after six years. Finally — What Can I Tell You? I'm running out of time this time, too. I hope to be done before the deadline I have is over. Take advantage of the opportunity. Take advantage of all the opportunities you have in the National Assembly to implement these recommendations, to perhaps do more, and then the report will be shorter or even longer, but full of fine praises and thanks to those who will listen to all the people in our society. Let me put it this way, as someone who called me said, "don't use the word "little man." And I got caught up in it. You know, he said, "We're really hurt if we're little people." And it's true, a little man can be big, but he's often pushed. He's pushed from a country that doesn't listen to him because he's big and strong because he feels like one. In front of you, honourable Members and Members, with all the executive power, even the judiciary, which is independent, is a great opportunity. A great opportunity for people who sometimes do not even like to follow the meetings because they are tormented, but hope that you will bring here with your presence, with your adoption of legislation a great deal of solutions for them. At that time, we will no longer talk about poverty as a violation of human rights, even though it is not specifically legal as a violation, but it belongs to another Article of the Constitution when we are talking about a social state. And if we want a legal and social state, all levers are in your hands. But before the end, we will still take advantage of the opportunity to offer you what the guardian has recommended, what has come true and hopefully if we listen to the tapegram of this session, so that we can write down that it will be much better for all of our people in a short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mrs. Nussdorfer. All the debaters you wanted got your word. However, since the time set for the debate remains, I ask whether there is anyone else who wishes to discuss it under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure. I see the answer is yes. I'm opening an application for discussion. I'm guessing we have two reported. The first one gets the word, Mr. Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Madam Guardian, for these additional explanations. I'm sorry that no representative of the Ministry of Education was among us right now. Perhaps I could answer a question that I have addressed directly to the Ministry, why the legislative decisions on direction are not being implemented and why this child, who is not being offered this assistance, is causing irreparable harm. But where you have achieved this, at least one part is provided by escorts, but progress is obvious and great, despite the fact that the accompanying job is very undervalued because it is a high professional job, working with our children. I'm sorry there's no representative of the Ministry here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The next one with a word is Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, distinguished guardian, Mrs. Vlasta Nussdorfer with colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that today we have had a four-hour debate on an extremely important issue, on human rights. Lack of respect for human rights causes countries to fall. They're going down. We also remember what we wrote in the basic constitutional charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. Given that the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia does not act as a state governed by law and seriously violates human rights, national rights and the rights of republics and autonomous provinces, on 25 June 1991 the three-house assembly adopted the already-named Fundamental Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. Although, let's leave it, it's not a topic now, some still have the homesickness to keep going back to SFRY. At this year’s 25 June, a national holiday, I even heard, interestingly, a 19 - year - old girl who said that things were getting better back then. But, as a matter of fact, it's not a topic right now. Perhaps, however, when we talk about understanding, universal understanding, I will also tell myself about the experiences I experience in the office of the Member. I'm sorry I'm not far away and I can't be in the office every Monday, even if the obligations are here. People make different decisions, let's say they're not entitled to some social rights, one such or another. They can't explain it to each other because they can read it, but they don't understand it. Why? Because they're so complicated. And also because Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution is not respected, Slovenia is also a social state. As I told the previous day, what good it is for us to have a billion, a billion 200, 300 million in the state budget for social transfers, and people, those on the side of society, simply cannot do so. When I was preparing for this debate, I studied the Ombudsman’s report — in fact, the Ombudsman’s report — a clean ten. Really. My personal compliment was also given by my colleague Blaž Pavlin on behalf of the Group of Members. And I believe that all of us are most troubled by the fact that your repeated warnings do not depend. I already know what your personal report will say for a period of six years. That's the biggest problem. Colleagues and colleagues, here are the customers who have been in the government for six years. Or even more. Here ex caddra say that we strive for not knowing what life of all, for a decent life of all and so on. Yeah, that's nice. That's what we all do. But those who are in the government, who have more political power, inappropriately more than the opposition, is the time to come from words to action. There's our problem. Everything we've heard — a hat down from the government representatives — a hat down. But if it were a sincere purpose — and this is my key message — because the report was published in March this year and the coalition agreement much later, I would like to see a comparison: how many of these recommendations, especially those that are being repeated, have been incorporated as a solution to the coalition agreement? This is actually a key issue today. Perhaps the nanny will call and tell you if she was doing this comparison or not, but it would be very interesting to do this comparison. There is still a time, as Mr Marjan Sarec says, that we do not necessarily respect what we have written down – what we have written in the coalition agreement. And I say it's good to do good things, even if they're not in the coalition agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u77	Thank you very much. At first, I'm just apologizing. Before I applied for the allocation of extra time, I forgot to invite the representatives of the Government and the guardian lady, my mistake. But I have received a request for the Ombudsman's word again and I give her my word. Here you go. You have 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u78	I will reply very briefly only to the Minister of Education, Mr Levic. That's what's bothering us, too. She was a representative and left early, but the minister was scheduled for Monday. Unfortunately, he will be in Brussels and he will not be, but a new deadline has already been set. And then, believe me, we'll ask him after that. We are now very intensively inviting all ministers, some, more rarely, to come, but they will be there by the end of the term of office, so I hope that we can do a lot of things. This review – let us be surprised, Mr Horvat, I think it will be quite interesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u79	Thank you very much. If there are no government representatives who would still like to discuss it, I conclude the debate. Since the amendments to the draft report have not been tabled, we will conclude the debate and we will decide on the proposal for a recommendation in accordance with the timing of the meeting on Tuesday, 27. November, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. At the end of the day, this is a report by the Ombudsman of Human Rights of the Republic of Slovenia on the implementation of the State preventive mechanism's tasks under the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Punishment or Equalization for the Year 2017. The report was submitted to the Ombudsman for consideration. I give the floor to the Ombudsman of the Authority to Nussdorfer for further explanation of the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u80	Again all well-known, such-respected Vice-President Tina Heferle, Members, Members of Parliament and, of course, all those who insist by the Ministry, because this report also touches you! Thank you so much for taking this report so seriously, which is half shorter, but if you write a report on 200 pages, you have something to say, because it is an optional protocol to the Convention against Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading penalties or behaviour. We'll give him a quick DPM report. What do you want me to say? It exposes the system of regular, preventive visits to places of deprivation of liberty. Each State Party shall establish one or more bodies, namely the DPM. A total of 80 Contracting Parties are involved, most often by ombudsmen, in Slovenia since 2006. Let me remind you that we have prepared a very resounding international conference just last year. And even when representatives of the supervisory institutions of the SPT, the CPT, i.e. European or global, come to Slovenia, they note that everything recommended has already been carried out by the Ombudsman. Therefore, they do not find further infringements, which can only be commended for our institution. In my mandate in 2015, I introduced a modest but yet novelty, a different organisation, what is now being introduced with regard to the amendment of the law, namely an internal organisational unit. Although Deputy Ivan Shelih is also leading the area of justice, the deprivation of liberty, police procedures and the state preventive mechanism, it seemed right to me that the people working in his department are two persons and two more half now, and before that one half, are doing just that. We knew each other because we doubled the number of visits. These visits have been in the last two years for 80 years. On this occasion, I would also like to thank all NGOs. We picked nine of them on a special call, and I'm not going to list them. They're very well represented in our report. There are doctors experts here who are going out with our employees for a number of visits. We've become the first, the first, the most friendly, the point. This could also be mentioned in the previous report. This is very important. For dementia is in fact a disease of the future, and unfortunately of the present, but we were not aware of it enough. We note a number of problems in the field of mental health, the definition of protected departments, the use of special protective measures, in prisons, as has already been said, overcrowding, to the happiness of only some prisons, because much has changed in this area. We also have different penalties, even recognitions in early treatment procedures. So are fewer people who go to prison or who go away for a short time than they would have. There's concern for the elderly, the sick and the disabled. We have paid special attention to this matter to the Ombudsman and have issued a full thematic report. If I remember myself as a prosecutor when people went to jail, they were some middle-aged or even younger. Today, there are quite a few strong 80-year-olds in our prison institutions, and, of course, given the problems that these years bring, there is also a need for a different treatment, and this has been given considerable attention in the thematic report. Of course, psychiatry is also worth the attention. Here we are, by the way, but for the dignity of people, it is very important that we have achieved the full use of the appropriate daily clothes, because you know how a person feels if he has to walk around in special clothes that mark you as well as seal you. This is also a problem in the treatment of minors with mental health problems. We have organized, even the Ombudsman has given an initiative, for the Days of Mental Health, which is very important. During these days, we have talked about these very individuals, who often stay in special departments. We've issued a special report, and if there's anything I'm glad about, it's that I hope it'll ever get better. I'm an eternal optimist, but as I say, I'm still alone. We have prepared a press conference at one of the departments of social security institutions, special institutions, so that we and the press can convince ourselves that what is happening there is not humane, not dignified. Last year, as we said, we visited 80 institutions, both police units, prisons, including the only educational home of Radeče, psychiatric hospital, special welfare institutions, senior citizens' homes, juvenile education institutions and foreign locations. I also have to say what I've often asked. It's not about the scheduled visits. This means that the visits are unannounced that, of course, we find a situation such as that no one, except perhaps in the largest prison, where, due to the size of the visit, we have to inform the scale of the action at least one day earlier, we are always using unannounced visits, unless we have strangers present. For, of course, they require a visit to be announced, but this is not so often. We have issued, in this report you have before you, 615 recommendations and it is very nice to say that there are only 55 completely unacceptable, but I know that there are also reasons why they are unacceptable. Not because they would tell us anything, but because financial pressures may also prevent anything from changing for the better. So we have a reputation, not just at home, even abroad. We welcome foreigners who come to us from national preventive mechanisms and learn from us and also from my colleagues, colleagues, especially Deputy Ivan Shelih, often travel abroad and teach how the situation should be in prison institutions and others, where people are deprived of their freedom of movement in any way. So it's about things that are sensitive, and that's why I believe that you're also this report, which even has visual material, we've tried to show you for the first time what the picture means, sometimes a lot more than the text. Thank you for addressing this recommendation today, too, for saying anything about it. Much has already been said on the committees, on the Commission for Petitions, which I thank again for serious consideration as well as in the State Council. Report on 200 pages, with many recommendations, taken seriously, seriously and seriously. And thank you for listening to him, so to all those who will present their views on him, both by the Government and by your side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mrs. Nussdorfer. The report was addressed by the Commission for petitions, human rights and equal opportunities as the parent working body and prepared a draft report by the National Assembly. I therefore invite Mrs Evo Irgle to present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. As already stated, at its third meeting, the Commission considered the Report of the Ombudsman on the implementation of the tasks of the State preventive mechanism under the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment for 2017. In his presentation, Mr Ivan Shelih, the rapporteur for the State Preventive Mechanism report, Deputy Human Rights Ombudsman, stressed the importance of regular preventive visits, on which they always draw up a comprehensive report with recommendations for improvement. Good practices are highlighted and praised and recommended by others. In 2017, 80, mostly unannounced visits to various places of deprivation of liberty in Slovenia were carried out under the State Preventive Mechanism, on the basis of which 615 recommendations were issued, of which 245 had already been implemented, 204 were still pending for various reasons and 55 were not accepted as justified. Even in 2017, they checked the treatment of prisoners and their conditions of stay in order to strengthen protection against torture of cruel or degrading treatment. In 18 cases, visits to the thematic nature were specifically devoted to vulnerable groups of prisoners. These are elderly and disabled persons in prison or in prison. In the future, more attention is to be paid to such visits. A large number of control visits were also carried out within the framework of the State Preventive Mechanism to verify compliance with the recommendations of previous visits. Initiatives to amend legislation are also being developed on the basis of the visits carried out. According to the Ombudsman, in Slovenia supervision of institutions in which people are deprived of their liberty is at a high quality level. In doing so, the Ombudsman points out that the tasks of the State Preventive Mechanism are carried out by a small team of staff, which carries out an extremely important work. In particular, the high level of implementation of the recommendations has been exposed, as evidenced by the respect enjoyed by the State preventive mechanism in institutions. Infringements identified by international observers coming to visit Slovenian closed-type institutions tend to be consistent with the findings of the State preventive mechanism. The rapporteur, i.e. the Ombudsman, highlights good cooperation with both non-governmental organisations represented by more than 40 individuals, as well as with DPM operators from other countries, in particular neighbouring countries, with which national preventive mechanism workers also participate in the field of training and exchange of good practices. The rapporteur of the report on the work of the State Preventive Mechanism highlights the problems related in particular to the area of the Mental Health Act, which he believes has been changing for too long. In practice, problems in this area are highlighted in particular in ensuring an adequate number of places within protected departments and in implementing specific protective measures, as also noted in the Special Report of the Ombudsman on Human Rights Violations of Persons with Mental Impairment, after their involuntary residence and treatment in protected sections of the social welfare institutions, which the National Assembly considered last year. She then gave the floor to the Ministry of Labour, who initially said that the Ministry was aware of the importance of the DPM in identifying irregularities and in improving the situation of people deprived of their liberty. The text was also given by the representative of the Ministry of Justice on behalf of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the enforcement of criminal sanctions, Mr Jože Support, who ensured that all the DPM recommendations were taken very seriously at the Ministry. It has already become a practice that, after each DPM visit to prison, the Administration for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions meets with the management of a prison and then, at these meetings, they jointly examine recommendations, prepare baselines for responses and seek ways to regulate the situation. The word was also given to the Ministry of Health and to the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Sandi Churin, who stressed that the police take all the DPM recommendations very seriously and most of them also come true. He explained that most of the recommendations to the police concerned administrative tasks or errors related to them, but also in these cases, the police addressed the shortcomings and quickly. Since I no longer have time to say that after the discussion, the members and members of the Commission have adopted a proposal for a recommendation which is an integral part of this report and is being examined today by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mrs. Irgle. The word is from a government representative, Mr. Gregor Strojin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u84	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, Honourable Ombudsman and other present! The tasks and powers of the State preventive mechanism also form an important part of the Ombudsman's tasks. This is an important mechanism under the auspices of the United Nations to prevent torture and other forms of ill-treatment of people who have been deprived of their liberty. Within the framework of the tasks of the State Preventive Mechanism, 80 visits to places of deprivation were made in 2017. A total of 615 recommendations were issued, of which 245 were already implemented during the preparation of the report, 204 were adopted and 55 remained unacceptable. The Ombudsman stated in the report that he was largely satisfied with the responses of the competent authorities to their findings and recommendations for improving the situation. They point to a willingness to cooperate, but they want even better cooperation with the ministries, particularly with regard to the problem of systemic change. The deprivation of liberty, the deprivation of liberty, means the worst possible intervention by the State in the individual of human rights and fundamental freedoms. A significant proportion of these interventions are penalties and measures related to the deprivation of liberty imposed in criminal proceedings. This is an extremely sensitive area where the highest standards of human rights protection should apply. In view of this, it is encouraging to note that, in particular, the Administration for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, as the body responsible for the enforcement of criminal sanctions operating within the Ministry of Justice, has adopted most of the recommendations relating to it and, of these, have already been implemented. Otherwise, the findings, initiatives and proposals resulting from visits under the State Preventive Mechanism, the regular and up-to-date awareness and response to them shall be made. The monitoring and implementation of recommendations or the preparation of explanations in cases where the addressees disagree with the recommendations is therefore a lively and continuous cooperation process reflecting the full awareness of the Government of the importance of taking care of the individual deprived of his or her personal freedom. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. The first is Mr Franc Jurša, on behalf of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. You, Vice-President, have a nice greeting, as well as, of course, the Ombudsman with colleagues, representatives or representatives of the executive branch of power, I have heard this many times from the Ombudsman today, as well as, of course, colleagues and co-workers in the National Assembly, are called Members and Members! In addition to the 23rd periodic report for 2017, the Ombudsman also transmitted the Report on Human Rights of the Republic of Slovenia on the implementation of the tasks of the State preventive mechanism under the Optional Protocol to the United Nations Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment for 2017. Regular preventive visits, which are crucial for the preparation of an improvement report, have been particularly exposed to the implementation of the tasks of the State Preventive Mechanism. We are pleased to see the Ombudsman working well with NGOs, ministries, the police and the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions. The Ombudsman always exposes good practices and praises in this context. For example, almost half of all reports or recommendations issued have already been implemented by the institutions. A third of them are still waiting, but we can believe that they will be realized. All organisations concerned with the mechanism take the Ombudsman’s recommendations very seriously and try to implement them as soon as possible. We would like to stress further the importance of the preventive action mechanism to prevent torture and other forms of ill-treatment of persons deprived of their liberty. During last year, the Ombudsman visited institutions 18 times to verify the treatment of vulnerable groups in prisons. It has turned out that the control of such institutions in Slovenia is at a very high level. On the other hand, what is still in the eyes and the Keeper has long warned about this is the Law on Mental Health. The Ombudsman calls on us to find a solution to ensure an adequate number of sites within the protected departments and to ensure that specific safeguards are implemented. It is clear from the report that there is still a shortage of protected departments, human resources malnutrition and problems with the adequacy of spatial standards and standards in homes for older citizens. While the response of the competent ministry in this area can be commended, we urge that further efforts be made to address such a problem. The number of dementia patients is increasing from year to year. The report also highlights the scope of dealing with minors in educational institutions waiting for new marriage solutions, particularly in the field of institutional protection for young people, as the function of institutions in this area is not regulated by law. We expect the established Interdepartmental Group to be able to come up with solutions to address this area. In the Desus Group, the Ombudsman's Report and the recommendation to the competent national authorities to take all necessary measures to meet the recommendations of the State preventive mechanism will also be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The following is the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party and, on its behalf, Mrs Lidija Ivanuša.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u88	Respectable and well-happened, all together! The Act on the ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment entrusted the Ombudsman with the tasks and powers of the State preventive mechanism in 2006. The Ombudsman thus imposes an additional mechanism to prevent torture and other forms of ill-treatment of people deprived of their liberty. Preventive visits to the Ombudsman and NGOs aimed at preventing torture or other misconduct are being carried out. In our view, there is no torture in the Republic of Slovenia, as it is the humanisation of the enforcement of criminal sanctions to gain a more recent era. The latter ensures the principle of humanity as set out in the Penal Code. The report also shows that the Authority has not identified cases of torture. However, in view of the eligibility of funding by the State budget, everything else has been identified. We state, the report says that the Ombudsman made his first visit in 2008 and then made several visits each year. I wonder whether there is a need for more visits because each year the number of institutions where persons are deprived of their liberty has increased. More than obviously, the number of institutions has not increased, but the number of users, but not at the expense of Slovenian citizens, but at the expense of illegal migrants, as recorded in the report. The table shows that the funds are increasing. Before the migration crisis, €110,000 was already worth €130,000. 39 visits took place in 2014 and 80 visits took place in 2017. In addition, doctors, experts and translators are included. The report records known places of deprivation of liberty in Slovenia, namely centres for foreigners and asylum homes. Therefore, you want to convince citizens that illegal migrants in the Republic of Slovenia are unlawfully deprived of their liberty and thus are equal to those who commit the worst crimes, who need to be freed because they are thus ordered by a judicial judgment of the court. The equation of these two categories is completely absurd. First, migrants settle in the centre and then the state deals with them in a way that allocates funds to determine if they are exposed to torture. There's something very wrong with that. The money of Slovenian taxpayers is used for completely wrong purposes. The report shows that a visit was made to the Centre for Foreigners — to what? Thus, illegal migrants who are supposed to flee from cruel treatment should be tortured or subjected to inhumane housing conditions in the Republic of Slovenia. The report is very nice to note that it is a matter of dealing with foreigners, it is not a matter of dealing with foreigners – for example, a Japanese citizen who is a tourist in the Republic of Slovenia. These are illegal migrants who have a totally different status. The report concludes that it draws attention to inhuman and degrading treatment in relation to the accommodation of foreigners and the treatment of minors. During the visit of the Centre for Foreigners, the conditions for the placement of unaccompanied minors and minors were checked. It is funny to check the accommodation conditions, as if they had come to our country by transporting the first category, traveled without knowing how many miles, paid to drive them on trucks, and checked in our country if they were properly installed. I would like to know if the state will demand the reimbursement of these costs from the countries from which these illegal migrants come. The conclusion is that accommodation in the Centre for Foreigners is not the most appropriate and it is recommended to provide special care and accommodation in specialised establishments. And what are the recommendations? Installation of suitable blinds to darken spaces to choose their own clothes and replace them when they themselves want to allow them unlimited and unsupervised access to hygienic inserts, swabs or cleansing swabs, multilingual labelling of complaint boxes, wireless connection to the internet, fitness arrangements, etc. I ask where the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia can turn to, in accordance with Article 14 of the Republic of Slovenia, which prescribes equality before the law, those rights which are granted to illegal migrants. We do not support the report with such content and recommendation in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Eva Irgl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u90	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice President. Once again, the well-known guardian of human rights and both the Deputy Guardian! The Ombudsman therefore ensured, in cooperation with selected NGOs, the effective implementation of the tasks and powers of the State preventive mechanism in 2017. In the introduction, I am pleased to say that we are speaking in our very special report to the Ombudsman in the exercise of the tasks and powers of the State preventive mechanism entrusted to the Ombudsman, because it is very important content. It is an additional mechanism to prevent torture and other forms of ill-treatment of people who have been deprived of their liberty, and it is right to devote, of course, all our attention and subtlety to such content. The national preventive mechanisms with their preventive visits, aimed at preventing torture or other misconduct before it happens, are a fine example of the pro-active role of the Ombudsman, and we certainly welcome this. In this report, however, let me point out the facts and recommendations that we have been particularly alerted to in the 2017 DPM Implementation Report. With recommendations to improve the situation in 2017, they point to situations which may constitute inhuman or degrading, this means poor treatment of persons deprived of their liberty, such as difficulties in providing housing for persons with mental health problems and, consequently, their placement in hallways and other common areas of social security institutions or even rejection, inadequate use of special protective measures, provision of appropriate daily clothing for patients with psychiatric hospitals, accommodation and treatment of minors and provision of adequate closed rooms for the treatment of minors with mental health problems. In many institutions visited, the recommendations made by the State Preventive Mechanism, the housing situation and the treatment of persons deprived of their liberty require improvement. The reactions of the competent authorities, in particular the institutions visited, to the findings and recommendations for improving the situation indicate preparedness and cooperation. In addition, for visits made in 2017, the Ombudsman notes that the institutions visited are, in particular, trying to take all measures necessary to improve their domain. Unfortunately, however, they point to poor cooperation with the competent ministries. They want better and deeper cooperation, especially when it comes to issues that require systemic change in this area. The National Preventive Mechanism Group in 2017 has identified shortcomings in the use of specific protective measures, including visits to psychiatric hospitals, and therefore they want more in-depth cooperation in this area, and in particular the faster response of the Ministry of Health and other actors to the adoption of measures to improve the situation, for example, in preparing the necessary amendments as soon as possible and supplementing the Mental Health Act and the professional guidelines for the application of specific protective measures, which we have already said at the previous point, i.e. when considering the Ombudsman's report. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has also for some time pointed out the need to prepare professional bases for the integrated and uniform treatment of adolescents, with instructions for appropriate educational action, particularly in the case of young people with mental health problems and associated violent and aggressive behaviour. The State preventive mechanism, through its operation, contributes significantly to improving the situation or situation of persons deprived of their liberty. It is right for the Ombudsman and all those working under this State preventive mechanism to express our support for their work, as it is of great importance, and to be particularly sensitive and very careful about the subject under consideration in the National Assembly today, and to address it with all due care. We will support the report in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Blaž Pavlin.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u92	Dear Vice President, a respected guardian with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! Under the long and complex title of this document lies an extremely important international mechanism to prevent torture and other forms of ill-treatment of people who have been deprived of their liberty. The functions and powers of this mechanism have been carried out by the Office of the Ombudsman for 10 years, and it cooperates with non-governmental organisations selected on the basis of the invitation to tender. Deprivation of liberty is carried out not only by institutions for the cessation of prison sentences, but also by psychiatric hospitals, social security institutions, nursing homes, police detention facilities at police stations, the Centre for Foreigners, detention facilities in the Slovenian Army and others. It shall carry out the tasks of the guardian mechanism by visiting the seizure sites, as well as by participating in the monitoring or drafting of legislation in this field, as well as by discussions with representatives of the state authorities, as well as with international activities. In New Slovenia we appreciate their work, which is mainly in the service of ensuring respect for human dignity in these difficult border procedures. It's not an easy job. We are also pleased to learn that the Ombudsman, with the response of the competent authorities to his findings and recommendations to improve the situation, is largely satisfied because they show a willingness to cooperate. We support the recommendation.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. A discussion is under way on the report and the proposal for a recommendation by Members and Members. All those who have been reported for the debate have given way to the debate, so we are moving to the final part of the debate, in which you will be given the floor by the representative of the Government and the proponents. On behalf of the Government, Breda Boznik from the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities will present her position on behalf of the Ministry of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! At the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, we are aware of the importance of the State preventive mechanism in identifying irregularities and in improving the situation of people deprived of their liberty. We have become much more attentive and subtle, for example, in restricting freedom of movement, and although there is still some work to be done in this area, I note that we have made important moves in cooperation. Unannounced home visits by the State Preventive Mechanism provide insight into the current and actual situation. In fact, for the Ministry, detailed reports of the situation found, which we accept after visiting home, are very helpful. In response to the Ombudsman, we comment on their recommendations and on the activities we have initiated with operators, where appropriate, to remedy the shortcomings. In order not to repeat the identified shortcomings and to achieve comparable treatment of residents in all homes, the most common recommendations are contained in the content of guidelines for working with persons with dementia and in institutional protection of the elderly. The first guidelines for working with persons with dementia were developed in 2011 mainly from the need to help homes develop modern concepts of working with persons with dementia and to carry out the tasks prescribed by the Law on Mental Health through protected departments. The development of modern concepts of work and shortcomings identified by representatives of social inspection and representatives of the State Preventive Mechanism in the implementation of the Mental Health Act in monitoring and visits, were further directed by two complementary guidelines in 2014 and last in February 2018. Guidelines do not have a binding legal nature, but help homes carry out the care of persons with dementia and the content of the document is in line with the representatives of the Ombudsman and the social inspection. This year's follow-up to the guidelines relates mainly to the implementation of the concept of work in protected departments and to the main recommendations and identified shortcomings in the treatment of residents in protected departments. Complementary guidance also addresses specific safeguards and safeguards and responses to the most frequent concerns of operators. The additions were presented to the directors of the home in Portorož in April, and regional meetings are also being held at which the orientations are reviewed together with the meeting participants and we are also available for further clarifications. Cooperation with representatives of the State Preventive Mechanism in the preparation of guidelines and their willingness to participate in consultations, education in relation to the content of guidance or presentation of tasks and findings and recommendations has proved to be a good practice that we would like to maintain in the future. The government appointed a working group to establish a specialised unit to address people with the most severe forms of mental health disorders. Work in the Interdepartmental Working Group has been intensified since August this year by reaching the points where we have prepared an overview of international practice in the EU, identifying target groups under the applicable legislation, as well as entry and exit conditionals and a model of travel for treatment. In the first half of next year, the working group will definitively identify the necessary staff and prepare an assessment of the necessary funding for the establishment of the unit and a proposal for an action plan. The formation of this specialised unit will be established after compliance with all the ministries in the field. It is expected to provide up to 30 additional seats for those with the most severe forms of mental health disorders. Allow me to give further the response of the Ministry of Health, which states that the State's preventive mechanisms carry out tasks in accordance with the Law on the ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading penalties or practices and oversees the respect for the human rights of persons deprived of their liberty. Thus, two to three unannounced visits are made each year in departments under the special supervision of psychiatric hospitals. The Ministry of Health carefully examines all areas of the State Preventive Mechanism on visits to psychiatric hospitals, as they themselves seek to respect the human rights of persons detained in the departments under special supervision and to implement consistently the Mental Health Act and the Patients' Rights Act. At the Ministry of Health, the activities of the Ombudsman in the role of the State Preventive Mechanism are being expanded and upgraded, with regular monitoring visits also being accompanied by monitoring and thematic visits in 2016. The Ministry of Health considers it important to carry out the tasks of the State preventive mechanism, as it carries out its tasks not only as a monitoring function, but also to establish a dialogue with operators and all visited psychiatric hospitals had the opportunity to identify themselves up to the indications and recommendations. It seems important to them that the responses show that psychiatric hospitals are also willing to participate constructively in improving the protection of human rights of persons during treatment, which is also confirmed by statistics, since in 2017, 12 and 6 of the recommendations of the State preventive mechanism were adopted by the healthcare provider. The Ministry of Health is therefore actively working, on the basis of the recommendations of the State Preventive Mechanism, to help remedy the identified shortcomings within its competences. Thus, the Ministry of Health, on the basis of the reports of the State Preventive Mechanism, called on an extended expert psychiatry college to examine the appropriateness of the professional guidelines for the application of specific protective measures, and on the basis of this initiative, new professional guidelines were adopted this year. At the Ministry of Health, they will also seek to improve the protection of human rights in psychiatric hospitals in the future, and to remedy the shortcomings identified, as they believe they will also help with the amendment of the Mental Health Act they are preparing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mrs. Breda Boznik. I'm sorry. I've read your last name before. Ms Melita Šinkovec, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, also took the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honors are here! At the Ministry of the Interior and in the police, all the recommendations made by the State Preventive Mechanism are addressed seriously, responsibly and with full care that most of them are also largely met. As already mentioned above, most of the recommendations relate to administrative errors, which we are also correcting or making sure that they are addressed systematically so that they do not repeat themselves. Unfortunately, however, we note that the outstanding recommendations remain and are, in particular, those requiring greater financial resources. Let me point out that, on the basis of the Ombudsman's recommendations, we have trained over 400 police officers and will continue to do so in the future. We also regularly visit police stations and check in the field if these recommendations are also taken into account in practice. Let me just give you some specific cases. The Ombudsman highlighted some shortcomings in the equipment of police premises, in particular those for detention. Let me tell you, we're putting an end to these flaws. Let me also give an example of good cooperation and an example of taking into account the Ombudsman's recommendations, particularly in the efforts made in the introduction of the electric stunner. Although we have not added the Ombudsman's recommendations to the Law on Police Tasks and Powers, we have taken the recommendations into account in the regulation that this electrical paralysis is addressed, and we have also written these restrictions in. Let me have a few more logs. For 2017, 27 police stations were visited in order to comply with the Ombudsman’s recommendations. Of all 172 recommendations made, more than two thirds were implemented. The adopted but not yet implemented is 49, but we are taking appropriate steps to implement them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mellite Shinkovec. The word is given by the Ombudsman, Mrs Vlada Nussdorfer, as a proponent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u98	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Members, Members and, of course, the remaining representatives of the Government, who have remained in the Chamber on this report! Now I'm going to be shorter, much shorter than I was when I read the Ombudsman's annual report. I would like to thank you for considering this report separately, as this also gives special attention to it. At times, it was discussed together with the Ombudsman’s regular annual report, so this is a positive change. I would like to commend, on behalf of the leader, Deputy Ivan Shelih, also the management of all the institutions that have adopted our colleagues, for providing them with all the necessary information. Of course, at times this made their work more difficult. However, as it was said, there were no problems. They have always been prepared by the Guardian, that is, the team, sometimes even the foreigners who attended, that is, the foreign institutions of the State Preventive Mechanism, accepted. When they visit us or when our parents go abroad, it always happens to introduce our prison and other institutions and make sure that we have them. I must say that they usually also commend all these institutions. There are many systemic obstacles to this, so I am pleased to hear the Ministry's announcements that the Mental Health Act will soon be amended. It's definitely an emergency. In the case of minors, i.e. educational institutions, we usually find that the problem is even with financial means, especially equipment, because it is prolonged, but sometimes also damaged over the years. Members who have raised their dilemmas concerning foreigners by the Slovenian National Party would like to clarify that the number of visits has not increased due to illegal migrants. It's increased because we've changed the way we work and we're visiting all the institutions even more. For before, those who worked in this department also performed other tasks with the Ombudsman, i.e. on concrete initiatives. As it is said, I have gladly accepted this way of working to visit only these institutions. What is the place of deprivation of liberty can be seen in Article 4 of the Optional Protocol, which is not currently in the Chamber. By the way, on pages 18 to 23 of this report, you have listed all of the 80 institutions that we visited and only under number 79 from the day we visited 20. 12. 2017 appeared for the first time foreign centre in Postojna. And as you can see, it is also a visit to minors from abroad, which we need to pay special attention to. Thank you for supporting this report. So I also report on behalf of the entire team of the State Preventive Mechanism and the deputy in charge of it, and deserves all praise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to paragraph 71, a member of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure wishes to discuss further. I find that there are no debaters, so I am concluding the debate. The amendments to the proposal for a recommendation were not tabled. The proposal for a recommendation will be decided on Tuesday 27 November 2018 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I thank all the rapporteurs for everything. Thank you very much. We're moving to 8. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the Civil Code (GZ), a reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted to the Council of State for consideration. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Edward Paulic, to complete the explanation of the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u100	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! At its 4th meeting, held on 7 November 2018, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Construction Law submitted to the National Council for its consideration. Complementary explanation was given by State Councilwoman Bojana Potočan. It drew attention to the issue of Article 93 of the current Construction Law, which imposes verification on notaries, banks, real estate intermediaries and others of other liabilities that the building permit is issued for the facility. Public records for the purposes of such checks should not be established. It also drew attention to the inability of the debtors to carry out such verifications, as well as to sanctions in the event that the verification was not carried out. The aim of the proposal of the Council of State is to abolish the duty of checking on the debtors referred to in Article 93 of this Law, as well as the abolition of criminal sanctions. The proposal does not wish to result in the abandonment of such verifications, but it is for the competent services to do so. In this way legal certainty in real estate transport should also be increased. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service did not have any comments on the wording of the articles of the bill, but she pointed out the ambiguity of the removal of the obligation to verify the existence of a building permit on other participants, such as buyers of real estate, since the proposal does not speak about it. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, Aleš Prijon, stressed that the Government does not support the proposal. He explained that the Ministry was already carrying out the procedure for the first evaluation of the implementation of the Construction Law in practice. On the basis of the results, a comprehensive proposal for a new law will be prepared. He also stressed that Article 93 is primarily intended to ensure the safety of citizens as weaker partners in real estate transport. In the debate, the coalition Members supported the government's opinion and agreed to draw up a proposal for a novel after the evaluation of the implementation of the Construction Law. Article 93, in their view, protects the buyer. Other players in real estate in the provision of their services also take on a certain burden, but for their services they either issue an account or account interest. They also took a similar position in the Left Group, as they do not see a step forward in the proposal of the Council of State in terms of ensuring greater legal certainty for real estate buyers. On the basis of these opinions, it was suggested during the discussion that the Committee should decide that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. On the contrary, support was expressed for the State Council proposal by the SDS Group. It was pointed out that, according to the applicant, the shortcomings presented in the existing Article 93 did not make sense to wait for a proposal for amendments by the Government. In the meantime, real estate problems will continue. They agreed with the proposaler's opinion that control of the legality of the works should be fully within the competence of the inspection services and, therefore, it is not appropriate to delegate responsibility to institutions which are not qualified to do so. Furthermore, it was pointed out that the existing verification method does not guarantee the legality of the construction, since there is always the possibility that the property was not built in accordance with the building permit. After the discussion, the 10-vote and 4-vote committee agreed that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Construction Law was not appropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Bojana Potočan, representative of the Council of State as a proposal for a bill to present views on the proposal of the working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to the Vice-President of the National Assembly, to all Members, Members and all the others present! As has already been said, the Council of State has tabled a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Construction Law by means of a legislative procedure. It has also been mentioned that the aim of the proposed law is, in particular, to remove legal uncertainties and to strengthen the legal security of all players in real estate transport. The draft law removes the obligation of the current debtors, the right of operators, notaries, authorized geodesy engineers and others to verify the existence of building permits when prescribed and, consequently, to refrain from such an offence. This was not proposed, of course, in the sense that we would like such verification to be abandoned, but because we believe that the law unjustifiably places this obligation on incompetent debtors. The abolition of the obligation to verify whether a building permit is granted when prescribed is necessary due to the absence of a public record which would allow the verification of that data, as also noted in the 2017 annual report by the Ombudsman, Recommendation 43, which notes that those records will only be established in 2021. And another reason why we have made such a proposal is that persons who are listed here as debtors are technically incapable of such tasks in order to determine how the building permits are for an individual facility. Our view is also that this provision is misleading, since the verification of the existence of a building permit for real estate buyers does not ensure that construction is compatible with the building permit issued, but can be subsequently issued for the same property by an inspection measure, which can even lead to the nullity of the legal business. For that reason, the legislator did not protect real estate buyers for that provision, in our view, but introduced a new bureaucratic barrier, without serious consideration of the consequences, both for buyers, the debtors referred to in Article 5, paragraph 93, and for administrative units. Due to incomplete data on the year of construction and the investor, the search for administrative files can be difficult, since older records are still manual, are archived by alphabetical order of investors, without any link to the building title or to a partial number. We would also like to draw attention to the fact that the beneficiaries of Article 93(5) of the Law, in particular the Notary Chamber, have made a clear request to the Ministry of the Environment before the adoption of the Law with a number of letters, and that the State Council, in addition to the legislative changes necessary for the implementation of the decision of the Constitutional Court of U-I-64/14-20, has already drawn up and coordinated in February 2018 a solution which is now proposed in this proposal by the State Council. I would also like to point out that there were no comments on the text of the articles of the law being dealt with today. In the State Council, we advocate the evaluation of existing building legislation, the consultation of all stakeholders and, of course, the preparation of a comprehensive novel building legislation that would allow for the greatest possible safety of buyers. However, we reiterate that some of the legal solutions are reckless and by reference to customer protection they introduce additional administrative obstacles, while failing to achieve their purpose, in order to protect buyers from the purchase of illegal construction. Therefore, in order to ensure legal certainty for all legal actors, this proposal for a law should be adopted and amended as it constitutes an obstacle to legal traffic without achieving a fundamental meaning. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Simon Zajc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, to present my views on the proposal of the mother's working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u104	Mr Vice President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not agree with the partial amendment of the Construction Law. The Ministry of Environment and Space is already in the process of the first evaluation of the implementation of the Construction Law in practice and a comprehensive proposal for the new Construction Law will be prepared on the basis of its results. All solutions related to illegal and non-compliant constructions, either new or modified or supplemented, will have to follow the public interest in this area, which pursues the objectives of order in space and legal security in real estate transport, which is the task of all participants in construction and other persons and organisations involved in these proceedings. It should also be pointed out that Article 93 was intended to ensure, in particular, the safety of citizens in real estate. Citizens or buyers are weaker partners than other participants, as their risk is inadequately higher and their information is usually lower. The government wants to ensure that other participants too take up their part of the responsibility to protect their citizens when they are potentially vulnerable, order in the space and records will be increased, and consequently illegal interventions will be reduced. Such a prepared amendment of the Construction Law will also include a proposal to implement the Constitutional Court's decision calling on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia to provide the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia with a system for the protection of the right to respect at home in enforcement inspection procedures and some other improvements to the applicable law. This proposal will be prepared on the basis of the inclusion of a public debate on the proposed amendments, and the present proposal will not be amended. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the submission and adoption of the proposed law are premature and that the law is unnecessary for those reasons. In view of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Construction Law submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The positions of the Polish Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u106	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear guests, colleagues and colleagues! We will support the Government's position in the Slovenian National Party. The main reason is that the Government will submit a new proposal for adoption on the basis of new results. We also hope that Article 93 will be well processed and arranged so that it will be good for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented to France Kepa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I say hello to everyone! The applicant submits that the proposed amendment aims to eliminate the internal non-compliant provisions and to increase the public's legal standards in such a way as to clearly define the obligations of the debtor to verify the legal status of the immovable property and Article 93(5) of the Construction Law. The proposed solution will verify the compatibility of the construction by entering the register of the inspection measure into the Land Book, which should also ensure respect for the principle of trust in the Land Book. The proposal for a new law follows the warnings of the Notary Chamber of Slovenia and other undertakings to verify the legal status of the property, that they have been ordered to verify the status of the property, for which they are not qualified and have no adequate public-law records to enable them to do so. In doing so, we must point out that the amendment of the law sets out only a small segment of the problematic provisions of the Construction Law, to which the public, however, is reminded. The ambiguities were mainly related to the licence form, which had to be obtained after a new one-bedroom facility, as well as to the difficulties in the application process for the start of the construction. I'm sure she was the one who was most receptive to the ban on moving into a house without a facade. The Ministry of Environment and Space is forecasting a novelty of construction legislation based on the evaluation that is currently under way. In the SDS Group, we expect these problems to be resolved and the proposal for today's amendment is considered appropriate for further consideration. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc, will be presented by Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The National Council proposes to amend the legal provisions concerning the definition of the liability of the debtors to verify the legal status of the property, which is a safeguard mechanism primarily for the buyers of these properties. The construction law was designed to change so that the legality of the construction could be checked through the registration of sealing in the land book exclusively by an inspector. According to the applicant, this would increase the legal certainty of business for all parties in the process, while at the same time establishing standards that would allow greater expertise in real estate transactions and in the assessment of the conformity of construction. The construction law provides that authorised persons, i.e. operators, notaries, authorised engineers in the field of geodesy and other competent authorities, must verify that the building permit is issued for the facility when it is prescribed. According to the applicant, this regulation is unclear and has led to a variety of interpretations and interpretations in the implementation of the law and also to interference with the legal security of the parties in the procedure. The Notary Chamber of Slovenia points out that the authorised persons and other bodies referred to in Article 93 of the Act are not qualified for those tasks and do not have access to public records in which the legality of the construction could be verified. We agree that the authorised persons in the sale or purchase process cannot determine the legality of the building, but can verify that there is a building permit for the facility when necessary, since the latter is a public document. This, however, does not guarantee legality, but retains at least the hygiene minimum protection of the buyer. In the course of the purchase process, it pays the commission to the real estate agency, pays the legal services to the bank by which it checks the documentation for any lease of the loan, and pays the notary’s contract at the conclusion of the legal transaction. Therefore, the customer’s payment goes to several entities that individually have a licence to carry out their work. No one in this chain can absolutely guarantee security, but only perform as high-quality an explanatory duty as possible. And anyone in this chain can verify whether a particular property has a building permit, as this is public except in the part where the personal data are listed. If the amendments to the law were supported, the buyer would be deprived of the right to such information, which would result in a reduction in security. We also support the Government's opinion that partial legislative changes are not appropriate in the Parliamentary Group of the List of Marjan Šarc. The construction law needs to be reformed in an integrated manner, since in the past it has proved to contain several shortcomings that are also evident in nature. So we have a lot of black constructions that aren't clear at all. The fact that notaries, banks, real estate brokers and others have to verify that a building permit is issued for real estate that is sold or purchased is intended solely for the protection of the buyer or the citizen. In the LMŠ Group, we believe that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Construction Law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Sonibo Knezak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u112	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! We have before us the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Construction Law, which has been tabled by the Council of State in the legislative process. The proposal sought to clarify, in particular, the content of Article 93 of the Construction Law, which, in his view, is now unclear and should result in a variety of interpretations of this article. The proposal would, in the opinion of the proposer, eliminate internal non-compliant provisions and increase the clarity of legal standards, thereby increasing legal certainty in real estate transactions for all parties to the procedure. In the Group of Social Democrats, we welcome any progress and improvement that will go towards increasing the legal security of the parties in the proceedings, but we believe that partial changes in the law can be unwise. Only the amendment to Article 93 of the Construction Law does not bring about a comprehensive change and protection of the parties in the proceedings. Let us not forget that the purpose of this Article is to ensure the safety of citizens in real estate transport. In this case, we are talking about real estate buyers who are in these proceedings a weaker group in relation to all other participants. Customers are mostly less informed and their risk is higher than other stakeholders. In our view, in order to adequately protect real estate buyers in these procedures, it is necessary to make a thorough evaluation of the implementation of the Construction Law in practice and, on the basis of the results of this evaluation, to present a comprehensive proposal for a new construction law. In its opinion, the Government stated that the first evaluation of the implementation of the Construction Law is already under way at the Ministry of Environment and Space, in practice, in order for the Ministry to approach the proposal for a new Construction Law, which will deal more comprehensively with the problems encountered in the implementation of the law. In the Group of Social Democrats, we consider that this is the most appropriate way to address possible open issues in the implementation of the Construction Law, so we will support the decision of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, so that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u114	Dear President, Secretary of State, Members of Parliament and colleagues! The building law, which we received or adopted in the government of Dr. Mir Cerar, began to apply on 1 June of this year and fully replaces the old Construction Act. The objective of the Construction Law, i.e. the new law, is clear – reducing investment risk and increasing the legal security of all parties involved. We are specifically talking about Article 93 of the law in question, which is intended to ensure the safety of citizens in real estate. The Article provides, inter alia, that notaries, operators, authorised engineers and other competent persons must verify that a building permit is issued to the facility prior to the validation of legal transactions by concluding credit, insurance, rental, rental and other transactions. Remember, in 2005, an investor bought an unfinished one-family house in Ljubljana, as the owner of the property, six other persons entered the proportional share. In time, the owners without a building permit turned this building from a single-family house to a multi-housing building. The investor should apply for a technical inspection and obtain a valid permit for the use of the apartments, which he did not do. Later, the owners of these apartments, through various real estate agencies, sold individual units in the facility and informed the buyers of the sale in a way that provided them with documentation that did not match the approved building permit. The buyers then discovered over time that they could not afford the property freely because they did not have all the necessary permits. It was clearly a shoplifting. This is just one of many stories in which citizens have been misled. Objective of the Construction Law, which is also pursued through provisions 93. Articles are clear – to protect real estate buyers. This was also pointed out by the Ombudsman. While the applicant points out in the material that the legal provision in question is unclear and that it is in practice interpreted differently, which would result in reduced legal security in real estate. But that's just not something you can attach to. In fact, according to the previous arrangement, the sellers could simply transfer their property error to the buyer and then have to solve all their problems on their own. Today, this is precisely because of this provision, which makes the legal security of citizens in real estate transport only bigger and not smaller than the applicant points out. It is therefore an attempt by the proposer to make a partial amendment to that law. The Ministry of Environment and Space has already launched an evaluation of the implementation of the new spatial and construction legislation in early November and has also announced that, on the basis of the evaluation results, a comprehensive proposal for the new Construction Law will be prepared, all with the aim of even better legislation, which would respect the highest professional standards on the one hand, and that legislation would be life-friendly and people-friendly on the other. In the SMC Group, we believe that building legislation must generally pursue the objective of order in space and legal security in real estate transport and that this is the task of all participants in construction and of others who play a role in real estate transport. Customers just can't be alone. Therefore, in the SMC Group, we do not support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors will be presented by Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u116	Dearly Honourable Chairman! When someone's buying real estate today, they need to authenticate the purchase contract with the notary. It is bound by law to verify that a building permit has been issued for the property to be sold and that this permit has been issued. After homework, check inside that the buyer doesn't buy black construction. With this, the buyer is protected from unknowingly buying a black construction that should later, clearly, be demolished. In this way, minimum legal certainty is ensured for the generally weaker party in the process, i.e. for those who do not know about real estate and construction and space acts and are generally decided on once in their lives for such purchases. The proposed amendments to the law want to end what I said. These amendments are lobbyist butter primarily for those who are required by the law to first verify that a building permit is issued for the facility before the contracts are validated by house numbers, carrying out other real estate legal transactions. These are operators, notaries, authorised engineers in the field of geodesy and other persons of public or private law. Compulsory verification of whether a building is prescribed and issued is simply intended to delete from the law, as well as offences for the non-execution of such checks. All of this is proposed under the pretext of increasing legal certainty in real estate traffic, but it is clear that the legal security of the buyer of real estate is not greater but smaller. Only the legal security of those who have to verify by law that the real estate is a property for which a building permit must be issued and that the permit is also granted. Lawmakers say they cannot verify that a building permit has been issued because they do not have access to official records. First of all, it should be pointed out that building permits may also be submitted by the participants in the procedure. And in this case, there is no need to look into official records. Another solution would be to allow persons who have to carry out this verification to have access to official records. Any of this is better than simply deleting the obligation to check a law that goes to the detriment of, as I said before, the weaker in legal transactions with real estate. The applicants also say that it is not clear what to check whether or not a building permit has been issued, even though the department has repeatedly explained to me in writing that they are only expected to verify that the site is marked. It is true that we should have access to the records, but until they do, they should do at least that. The applicants also say that even if a building permit is issued for the facility, they are not competent to verify that the facility is also built in accordance with them and that it is a non-conform building. However, this law does not require them to do so. It only requires that they verify that the building permit has been issued and that, as instructed by the Ministry, only by checking the land book. In Levi, we believe that the proposed changes do not increase legal certainty in real estate transport. On the contrary. Legal security is lower, and that is the legal security of those who are the weakest side in these proceedings, those who do not engage in daily purchases and sale of property, but do so once in their lives if they are lucky. That is why we will support the decision in Levica on the inadequacy of the law for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Mr Aleksander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u118	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Fellow Members and Members of Parliament! In Novi Slovenija we had many concerns at the time of the adoption of the Construction Law. Today, just five months after the law began to apply, we are in practice faced with non-life and rigid provisions that do not imply simplification of procedures. On the contrary, they impose a number of new obligations on investors and individual debtors operating under this law. It is right that the law is trying to protect citizens as much as possible in real estate procedures. The buyer is always a weaker customer. However, it is not necessary to examine and determine, at the stage of conclusion of the purchase contract, so many undertakings have a building permit. How and above all on which the bank, notary or real estate intermediary should determine this. There are no public records to check. However, even if they existed, these obligations could not be imposed equally by the bank, notary or construction inspector. Only inspection services are professionally qualified for these procedures. In New Slovenia, we stress that everyone must take responsibility for the work he does as an expert, but imagine that the bank, notary or real estate broker must be responsible for the offence if he does not find that the facility does not have a building permit. In the course of the process of conclusion of the purchase contract, the notary must verify and draw attention to other facts and not to the fact that the building which is the subject of the sale has a building permit. The same goes for banks. Of course, as usual, the government opposes the proposal of the proposer, not because it would not agree with it, but because it is a non-systemic arrangement, because after the evaluation of the implementation of the law in practice it is intended to produce a comprehensive proposal for amendments and additions. So after 5 months of marriage, the government is aware that changes will be needed. We look forward to this, and we hope that it will change the law at that time also in the work that discusses the mandatory use permit for a residential facility. Now this investor can't get it until the house has an outside facade. Until then, however, the building cannot get a home number or a residence in it. What a nonsense. Many families find it difficult to get to their home, but when that happens, it is not allowed to move in because the building does not comply with the building’s permit. Of course, it is consistent, but it does not have an outside facade, since owners often do it after they are already inhabited and when they save some money again. In New Slovenia, we support the proposal of the State Council, and we will therefore oppose the proposal that the proposal for the amendment of the Construction Law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u120	Dear Presidents and other colleagues! In the Alenka Bratušek Group, we repeatedly repeat that we do not support partial changes in laws and that projects called after renovations from several perspectives need to be fully implemented. In the bill that we are considering today, we are once again witnessing only partial treatment, which does not cover the whole issue in any way. In its proposal, the Council of State focused only on the 93rd and 103rd Articles of the existing Construction Law. However, the proposed amendments and additions are intended to remove non-compliant internal provisions and increase the clarity of legal standards. The debtors referred to in paragraph 93 would therefore be required to verify, instead of the compulsory verification of whether a building permit has been issued for a particular facility, that the conformity of the construction is checked through the registration of the inspection measure in the Land Book. At the outset, I must point out that what is happening in relation to this law and precisely this article has already surprised me a bit in the past. In the previous mandate, the Ministry of Environment and Space had already prepared a new law, which they said was in line with all stakeholders, including the Notary Chamber. At that time, the Ministry stated that Article 93 of the Act should be interpreted in such a way that all the persons referred to in the Article must verify the existence of the legal fact of the prohibition of an unauthorised object or of the non-conformity of use by checking that the register of the prohibition by the inspector is recorded in the Land Book. This is in substance in line with what the Council of State is trying to achieve today with its proposal. The amendment also lists a section of the article which removes the obligation of notaries to verify that a building permit has been issued for the facility. Which again is exactly what the State Council has already proposed. At that time, as an authorized construction engineer, I recalled the failure of the buyers and the negative consequences that this fact might have on them. As part of its amendment of the law, the Council of State therefore stressed that the proposed solution of the current debtors, including notaries, would burden the verification of whether a building permit was issued for a particular facility. According to the proposaler, they do not have adequate knowledge of this. That's right. The interior cannot verify the conformity of the construction work with the building permit issued — this is checked by an inspection that records non-compliance in the land book — but can verify the existence of the building permit and other entries in the Land Book. So, on matters that the notary is able to verify, the customer must be alerted. His role as weaker is one of the key reasons why such an article has ever been adopted. On this occasion, let me also draw attention to the task of a real estate broker. I'll ask a rhetorical question. How many real estate ads did you even notice the floorris or the measurement of the objects? In rare cases. At times, the conformity of the performance with the building permit was demonstrated in the technical review. In the past, this has been eliminated for loving and populist reasons. Once again, I stress that it is preposterous, in particular, to correct laws in part, and so many times. The proposals are different, well-founded, groundless, professionally supported or unargumented. I would not appreciate them here, but it is impossible to overlook the fact that they are huge. On the other hand, bankers warn about the difficulty of certain provisions, as noted by notaries. Public warnings are loud and clear that instead of increasing transparency and hastening certain procedures, it causes confusion, complicates things, and the procedures are getting shorter and shorter. A few days ago, the proposal to amend the Construction Law was tabled by SDS. Anyone among them would change a piece of the law, add a word, a comma, a line or two. Even if one proposal was supported, it is quite likely that a new proposal would be made within a week or two on the table. Does that make any sense? To the very proposals, with the exception of what has been discussed, I do not wish to define myself here, as I say, but I would like to point out, above all, that there is parity. I can therefore conclude that in the Alenka Bratušek Party, we must attach the proposed law to the Government, which appears to be premeditated by the submission and adoption of the proposed law. We will therefore support the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The positions of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u122	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State and members of the Council of State, colleague and colleague! The proposal for the amendment of the Construction Law, proposed by the Council of State, refers to Article 93 of the current law, the purpose of which is to ensure that our citizens and citizens are legally protected when they are involved in real estate transport, which for the most part represents an exceptional event that has, in general, very high financial consequences. I am talking, of course, about buying real estate, which most choose to do, usually, once in a lifetime, and for this purchase all their savings, and many are also credited, practically for the rest of their lives. Article 93 provides that other players in real estate, i.e. notaries, banks, real estate agents and so on, must verify the status of the real estate, whether it is legal or black. For all of them are qualified and qualified for such an action, while the buyer is a weaker party and cannot and often does not know whether it is legal or illegal construction. In order to protect customers who are in a highly unequal situation contrary to all of the above mentioned legal actors, the Ministry has also decided on such a provision as already contained in Article 93. So, everyone listed above just has to check to see if the building has a building permit. The building permit shall be a public document, whether issued or not known for each object. This information is available to all administrative units so that this review is very simple for all qualified. In the Desus Group, we agree with the Government's view that the deletion of those provisions would be inappropriate and even unfair to our citizens. At a meeting of the Committee, the Secretary of State said that the Ministry was even considering sharpening the requirements already contained in Article 93. For example, that we should also check other things, not only is the object legal, but also, for example, whether a license is issued and so on, all in order to increase the legal security of citizens. The Secretary of State further said that the competent ministry was implementing the evaluation of the recently adopted construction legislation and that the results would be taken into account in the possible renewal of the Construction Law. Members of the Desus Group will support the decision of the parent working body that the bill is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-22-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Thus, we have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide on Tuesday, 27 November 2018, in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed on Friday, 23 November 2018, at 10 a.m. Thank you very much.
