ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 65th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Jelka Godec, Mrs Suzanne Lep Šimenko, mag. Bojana Muršič, Dr. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Mrs. Vojka Šergan from 15.30 p.m. on, Mrs. Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Dr. Jasna Murgel, Mrs. Iva Dimic, Mrs. Ljudmila Novak from 11 a.m. on, Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer from 15.30 p.m. on, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, Violeta Tomić until 10 a.m. and from 17 p.m. on, mag. Ms. Marija Antonija Kovacic, Mr. Marijan Pojbič, Mr. Daniel Krivec, Mr. Tomaž Lisec, Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc, mag. Branislav Rajić, mag. Dusan Verbic, Mr Igor Zorčič, mag. Alexander Kavčič, Mr. Marjan Dolinšek, mag. Matthew Tonin, Dr. Laszlo Göncz by 11 a.m., Dr. Vinko Gorenak from 13.30 p.m., Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, Miha Kordiš, Mr. Franc Jurša and Mr. Ivan Hršak from 14:00 p.m. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 65th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Tuesday, 22 May 2018 with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as referred to. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, all in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Agreed.]] I take it the agenda of the 65th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On the basis of the final report on the parliamentary investigation carried out on the determination of the prudential interest rate and on the financing of terrorism, the nuclear proliferation and the financing of the activities of foreign intelligence and security services in the new Lublin Bank, D.D., and the significant pre-emption of the denar in the new credit bank Maribor, D.D. The final report was submitted to the meeting by the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of alleged money laundering and financing of terrorism, nuclear proliferation and financing of the activities of foreign intelligence and security services in Nova Ljubljanska Banka, d.d., and alleged money laundering in Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor, d. d The final report is clear and will be considered by the assembly at a public meeting. [[..]] The components of the final report shall also be an additional final report, which shall take into account the protection of personal data and shall be marked by a degree of professional secrecy pursuant to Article 67 of the Bank of Slovenia Act and bank secrecy under Article 125 of the Banking Act and another supplementary final report, which shall be marked in accordance with the Secret Data Act under the “secret” level. In view of the above, the assembly, pursuant to Article 101(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, will consider those additional final reports at a closed meeting for the public today, 46 minutes after the adjournment of this item in the public part of the meeting. I would ask all the debaters not to mention in the public part of the meeting the information contained in the supplementary final report and the other supplementary final report which are not available to the public. We are moving on to a debate on the final report, on the essential findings and on the proposal for a decision to be taken in public. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, the President of the Commission of Inquiry, Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Procedurally earlier? Oh. K. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Following the adoption of the final report by this Commission of Inquiry and submitted to the National Assembly, another closed meeting of this Commission of Inquiry entitled Work Agreement was convened today half an hour before the beginning of this meeting. Now I am interested in what things this was about, why this was called out, because the report has already been submitted, and I am interested to know whether this agreement on the work that you have called a meeting about earlier will be made available in the public part of the session so that we can look at it. It seems unusual to me that after the investigation committee has completed its work, it has submitted a report, convened a consultation or anything else. The conclusions are presented, we have them on the benches, the material is here and I would only ask for information on whether what is necessary for the public part of the meeting will also be available in time for the work or should be available before the meeting; otherwise, I do not know what else you were negotiating if you have already submitted everything for the regular or open part and for the closed part of the session. I want an explanation, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u3	Procedurally, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer. [[advertising from the hall]] I don't have an answer, so I'm giving him my word for procedurally to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u4	Thank you very much, President. Given that there was a procedural issue - and I will only talk about the procedure referred to by the leader of the Group of Members of the concerned party on this subject - the meeting actually lasted five minutes. It was a matter of procedure, for what each Commission of Inquiry is actually doing, it did not decide on any decisions affecting today's debate or amending the report or anything like that. It was only the powers of professional colleagues to prepare all necessary - and this is independent of this report and today's debate - to declare crimes. And that's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u5	Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is unusual for a Member to answer the procedural question addressed to the President of the National Assembly. You have repeatedly given warnings and also criticised all those who have asked or wanted to have a debate that is unfair and unfair. Now you've done it yourself in the end. I have addressed to you the question and you are obliged to give an answer, because if this happened - you are in charge of the meeting, you are signed under reference and so on - you must answer this business question. It seems incorrect to me that the commission of inquiry, which has finished its work, is still working, has already given a report, and is setting up other matters. I think it's incorrect what you're doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u7	Now I will give the answer: because I did not know the answer, I gave the opportunity to answer the question to the one who runs a certain body, but in which you do not participate; if you cooperate, then this procedural question would not be the moment. The choice in democracy is just a matter of everyone. With that, I would end the matter and, please, I would finally give my word for what we have accepted. Mr Jani Möderndorfer, President of the Commission of Inquiry, has the floor to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u8	Allow me to begin by thanking the members of the Commission, fellow Members, Mr Matjaž Germany, Mr Franz Trček, Mr Jernej Vrtovac and Mr Ivan Hršk. The same goes for thanking the experts of the National Assembly and, in particular, the external members of the Commission, without whom the work of the Commission of Inquiry could not be completed in such an effective manner. The Commission heard 47 witnesses from a number of stakeholders: from Nova Ljubljanska banka, New Bank of Maribor, Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, Police, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Finance and, of course, the last Bank of Slovenia. Two of these witnesses were expert witnesses, Mr Miroslav Gregorič and Mr Klaudi Stroligo. She also heard six hidden witnesses, and two witnesses, despite a two-time invitation, were, of course, avoided, but because the Commission lacked time, a second invitation, a third one, was unable to deliver and, of course, to conduct the hearing. The Commission also held a discussion with three whistleblowers, and through intermediaries it also made contact with Irai Farrokhzadeh. The Commission of Inquiry found that Farrokhzadeh is well informed about the reopening of the case and that a network of contacts has been established in Slovenia that it can obviously contact at any time, and therefore the Commission of Inquiry expects the competent state authorities to clearly identify this network as part of the continuation of the investigation. A parliamentary inquiry in the two largest Slovenian system banks owned by the state, indeed, the NKBM was later sold to Apollo, and the commission of inquiry was carried out within eight and a half months. She formed or began her work. 9. 2017 last year. The Commission of Inquiry has already faced difficulties at the outset, as the second Commission of Inquiry on the detection of abuses in the Slovenian Banking System and the determination of the causes and responsibilities for the second resolution of the banking system in Slovenia alone or the Logar Commission did not wish to provide evidence obtained by preparing an interim report on the parliamentary investigation carried out in the Farrokh case. Which means, of course, that all the material from the New Ljubljana Bank and the competent state authorities had to be re-acquired. This has cost the investigative commission more than two months. While Dr. Logar refers to the fact that the Commission of Inquiry was unable to deliver the material obtained through judicial orders, which he holds in part, he silenced the fact that the Commission of Inquiry could deliver the remaining material which was not related to the order of the court. In this regard, it is also worth pointing out that the Commission of Inquiry has not made this a scandal and has referred to any press conferences such as Dr Logar in the case of judicial seizures in court. Especially for the reason that we do not weaken and diminish the reputation of the National Assembly. As a result of the obstruction of the work of our commission of inquiry, there are two copies of the same material in the National Assembly in two different maps, and whoever wants to understand it in any way. Just before the end of the part of the commission of inquiry, of course, the head of the SDS Group has requested that the President of the Commission of Inquiry be resolved because there is doubt or suspicion that there is a conflict of interest. It was all on the basis of the documentation available to them that it was probably flawed that, of course, the Union of Olympia Basketball Club, which I led before I started running only an investigative commission, orders or together with the administration, determined the start of a simplified enforcement settlement and thus, of course, put the investigator on the other side, which would, of course, be contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the Commission of Inquiry and the Law of the Investigative Parliamentary Commission. This request was, of course, addressed by the Commission, I was excluded from the procedure as President, the Vice-President led the Commission and the members themselves discussed the complete material and also decided on it and, of course, did not find any conflict of interest, and the Commission continued with this work. To mention the following, the point is that, in fact, it has already become clear to the Commission why, in fact, the Commission did not want to participate in the investigative committee in some way. It is also clear why it raised this issue only after the case was opened or the subject of an investigation by the Commission of Inquiry into the NKBM. As long as we were investigating only NLB, we didn't actually have these problems. And in fact, if you look at the magnetogram, you will see that Mr Grims was already talking about some conflict of interest at the very beginning, of course, at the time, I thought that I was in a conflict of interest because I was supposed to have an open account at the New Ljubljana Bank, where, of course, I made it very clear that I didn't have an account there. Well, of course, so for one year they really knew what their motive was, and this could be one of the reasons why they did not participate in this parliamentary commission. I regret this, of course, because of this, of course, we would have significantly more control and a significantly better view of the work of the commission of inquiry itself. The SDS has tried to make the work of the Commission of Inquiry difficult to complete its work, because you need to know that, if they could even succeed, the Commission could in fact finish the work immediately, because the replacement process would take two months and would end at the end of the term of office. In fact, what is very important is that the argument still holds, even despite anger, since last week, when we had our first press conference on the report itself, where I stated and today I repeat: "It was probably a problem, because, as I have already stated, we would have stumbled upon ourselves and our members or sympathizers in the investigation." Even today, after the work of the Commission has been concluded, I have received attempts at personal discrediting on their part, so let me make it clear to everyone present that I am proud of my two professions, and I am also proud to have worked for many years in health institutions and, lastly, also with sign language users. I believe that I am expressing some kind of support to all those involved in this area. At the same time, it is important to state the following fact, which is important for all Members and Members. In fact, I am convinced that all the Members who have been entrusted with this mandate are able to carry out their functions and thus to lead and participate in the working bodies of this National Assembly and, more importantly, the Commissions of Inquiry. The latter I can claim for myself as well as for my fellow Members and colleagues, both colleague Jelko Godec, Matjaž Hanžka and Anžet Logar, who led each of their investigative committees in this mandate. Nevertheless, it is worth noting that the Commission of Inquiry has only completed the parliamentary inquiry in the Farrokh case, while the investigation into the alleged money laundering of the New Bank of Maribor has not been fully completed and will propose that the new National Assembly reintroduce it and continue it where the Commission of Inquiry, due to lack of time, has had to suspend its work. The Commission of Inquiry has yet to fully determine the role or responsibility of former NKBM President Aleš Hauca, who has repeatedly avoided the testimony, even though he has testified before the Logar Commission of Inquiry, and has also attended a meeting of the Commission for Public Finance Supervision on a subject led by the Magi. Andrey Shircelj. Aleš Hauc was prepared to cooperate only with the members of the SDS investigation team when it came to another commission of inquiry, and of course he failed. He later became unusually ill, although he vehemently insisted on the Public Finance Supervisory Commission that he was ready to explain everything. As President of the Commission of Inquiry, I am pleased that we have succeeded in seven years after the closure of the Iraiah Farrokhzadeh account, associated economic operators, and to clear up the suspicious transactions that took place through the New Ljubljana Bank. However, the work of the Commission of Inquiry has several concrete consequences. Firstly, the current Minister of the Interior has already carried out internal police control over the Farrokh case and, on the basis of the findings, the police have already received new guidance for their work, and the Ministry of the Interior has filed a complaint with the Special Prosecutor's Office as a result of the way in which it handles or manages the procedure against certain police officers in charge of the case. Secondly, Banka Slovenije has carried out an internal audit of the management of the supervision of the New Ljubljana Bank and the conduct of the criminal procedure and will strengthen operational supervision in the area of money laundering and terrorist financing. Today, the new Ljubljana Bank has an exemplary field of prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing with competent supervisors or authorities and corporate governance with competent authorities for the management and control of terrorism. Fourthly, on the basis of the key findings of this parliamentary investigation, the Investigative Commission will propose to the Government that approaches be taken to building an effective information and security system that can also deal with anti-intelligence powers and work more effectively in its field. The key finding of the Commission of Inquiry in the Farrokh case is that in most cases it was not for transactions related to classical money laundering arising from previous offences. One example of fraud, tax evasion and money laundering through the New Ljubljana Bank was found. It was the official documentation of the French judicial authority, from which the information on money laundering was derived to the detriment of the Iranian Embassy in Paris. That's exactly what 30 was about. 3. The current Ministry of Justice and Public Administration, led by Dr. Senko Plitcanič, was also informed, which, of course, did not inform the police or ask them to explain the case. However, suspicious transactions have been carried out in the manner used in money laundering or have been consistent with indicators to identify suspicious money laundering transactions. On the basis of the evidence obtained, the Commission of Inquiry estimates that there was an Iranian scheme in the New Ljubljana Bank, which was directly in the hands of the Iranian State, and that it was not an individual who tried to carry out Iranian payment transactions abroad, but that Iraj Farrokhzadeh was part of the Iranian State Bank Transaction Scheme through Slovenia or the New Ljubljana Bank. The Commission of Inquiry found that the Farrokh case is not yet the first case for cooperation between Slovenia and Iran. When the embargo against Iran was breached, these cases were not only linked to the illegal export of military technology, but also to three embargoes via the Slovenian banking system. Two breakthroughs were made, and one was stopped. The first case of the embargo was dated in 1979, when the embargo was first adopted against Iran and the representative of the people, I apologize, the Ljubljana Bank in Beirut allowed Iran's financial resources under the embargo to be transferred through this representative office to an account held by the Ljubljana Bank opened in Switzerland. The second example of the embargo bank break is the Farrokh case, which took place between 2008 and 2010 and was the subject of a parliamentary investigation. The third case is the beginning of 2012, a good year after the closing of the Farrokh case. This third case was stopped. Of course, the Commission of Inquiry cannot make it public, as evidence is protected as a secret. The SDS has repeatedly pointed out that, in their view, the essential findings do not differ from those carried out by Mr Grims and Mr Logar. With regard to Mr Grimes' report, he would not have lost his words, as he was not even competent to carry out this investigation. Part of its report on the role of the PSC and the then president, Mag. Goran Klemenčič, however, organized for the purposes of the interpretation lodged against him and the current Minister of Justice. By doing so, the Commission of Inquiry assessed the integrity of the KNOVS and abused its function. The Investigative Commission therefore estimates that Mr Grims should no longer lead this working body. [[advertising from the hall]] The remainder of the so-called Grims report is also of no further value, especially if a comparison is made with the findings of this Commission of Inquiry, which are contained in another supplementary final report for reasons of confidentiality. In this regard, I would also like to point out the fact that, on the basis of the findings, the Commission of Inquiry proposes to approach the construction of a modern and effective information and security system, which will also be able to respond to the modern security, strategic interests of the Republic of Slovenia in both the economic and financial fields. I therefore wonder how Mr Grims did not come to a similar conclusion in his report as Chairman of the working body, which is responsible for intelligence and security services. Mr Logar drew up the findings of his report more thoughtfully and generally, as he was aware that he had done too little investigative work and had done only a few testimonies, leaving most key witnesses behind, probably due to a lack of time, because an interim report was being prepared. Therefore, I can safely argue that the findings of this Commission of Inquiry are much more concrete, supported by more evidence and that there are differences in the essential part of money laundering and also in some other parts. Let me point out that, despite several thousand suspicious remittances, except in one case, it has proved that it was not a money laundering which would have been criminally persecutable, that there were no astronomical commissions that would have gone into private pockets, but that it was, as already stated, a so-called Iranian scheme and a violation of the embargo against Iran. The Commission has set up a reconstruction of the Iranian scheme at international level, as well as a reconstruction of the Farrokh case in Nova Ljubljanska Banka, comparing them and finding only a match. The Commission detected 2 breaches of the Iranian embargo and 1 attempt, and the Commission also made contact with Irai Farrokhzadeh and identified part of the international network it adopted on visits to Slovenia. However, she failed to identify the works of the Slovenian network. The Commission also noted that in several attempts by the Iranian ambassador to continue the so-called Iranian scheme after Nova Ljubljanska banka ceased its business with Farrokhzadeh. The findings concerning the operation of the Anti-Money Laundering Office also differ slightly. The Office was not a criminal body which could have reached the closure of the Farrokhzadeh account itself. There was no pressure on UPPD and no conspiracy to report errors to sister organisations abroad. However, the fact is that the office was run very poorly, since despite the fact that it was the so-called Iranian scheme, all the work of the office in this case, despite the Director's notice after June 2010, was based only on one person who led several cases in parallel, and in this case this person was also doing work that other departments at the office should have done. The Logari Commission did not come forward with these findings, based on the testimony of the witnesses. However, with regard to the poor management of the office and the responsibility of the Director, I must mention that in 2005 the Janšev government stopped then the Director of the Office, Klaudi Strogil, with one argument that it is not correct that one person with data on the privacy of individuals is so long on such a responsibility. Mr Plaussteiner was appointed to his post. The Commission of Inquiry received from very reliable sources information that Plausteiner Janšev’s choice was and that Dr. Bajuk, where he assessed that the latter was not in favour of the tasks, resisted his appointment for a long time, but finally had to give in. The findings are much more concrete and reinforced in the work that touches on Banka Slovenije's responsibility, as the last Logar Commission was not able to touch at all. In addition, the Commission of Inquiry recalls that the Iranian ambassador visited the then Governor of Banka Slovenije and the Minister of Finance to open the Slovenian banking market for Iran and could also list. Iran is the country against which the international community adopted sanctions in 2006, the UN Security Council adopted the first of its binding resolutions on the limitation of Iranian nuclear activities. The European Union and its Member States implemented the sanctions regime against Iran contained in UN Security Council resolutions in 2007. The last acts of both international organisations, which we are members of, with regard to restrictive measures or sanctions against Iran, date back to 2010. In the case of four transactions of the New Ljubljana Bank there is a suspicion that they were aimed at financing nuclear proliferation and buying dual-use goods. So goods that can be used for both civil and military purposes. However, at least two banks were involved in the transactions. Two banks of the International Community Sanctions List, with which it was prohibited to cooperate. One is Melly Bank from 2007 and the other, Expot Development Bank of Iran from July 2010. Although the new Ljubljana Bank was involved in payment transactions with Iran Farrokhzad, it was a suspicious transaction which should have been reported to the competent authorities, but employment with Iranian countries and banks should not have been requested for permission or consent. The new Ljubljanska banka earned significantly less than the statements in the public themselves. The SDS, or their media and Mr Grims, stated that such commissions amounted to between EUR 200 and 300 million to be used by some in the bank. On the basis of the documentation, the Commission of Inquiry found that the total commission amounted to 0.1% of the payment turnover carried out, or slightly over EUR 800 000, which is 200 times less than the result of SDS speculation. The Investigative Commission also points out that, despite the fact that the Bank did not make a very good profit in its dollar business on international financial markets, it itself exposed to disproportionate risks due to possible international sanctions for violations of the Iranian embargo in the event of disclosure itself. The Commission of Inquiry did not file any complaints against those responsible in the bank at that time, since it was not a crime, but only for offences. In doing so, the Investigative Commission points out that Nova Ljubljanska Banka, including Banka Slovenije as a criminal body for the offences mentioned above, has never punished, but has even abandoned or closed the criminal procedure without an appropriate explanation, for which Mrs Jasna Iskra, then Head of the Legal Department, is very clearly responsible. In public or mainly by the SDS, it has been alleged that the investigating commission has not established the offences and that it does not distinguish between offences and offences. In this regard, I would like to draw attention to the fact that when it was already mentioned that international sanctions against Iran were imposed in 2006 and its Member States, namely the EU, the sanctions regime against Iran were contained in UN Security Council resolutions in 2007, and the Janšev Government proposed to the National Assembly the Act on restrictive measures imposed or implemented by the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with legal acts and decisions taken within the framework of international organisations and adopted at the end of 2006. The Penal Code does contain provisions in Article 374a on the offence of infringements of restrictive measures, but there was no such offence in the Sturm’s Penal Code, which was adopted in 2008. The latter offence was only established by amending the Code, exactly one year after NLB violated the Iranian embargo in November 2011, and how ironicly, on the proposal of the Pahor government. The responsibility for the situation lies with the then supervisory authorities in the NLB, with the responsibility of the current member of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank, Miran Vičič, who is in charge of the area of payment transport and is well aware of the Farrokh case. The Commission of Inquiry has filed an indictment against two responsible employees of Nova Ljubljanska Banka for false testimony against Milka Ižanc, former head of the Foreign Affairs Office, and Zdenko Bernik Strelec, former Commissioner for Money Laundering Prevention. The Commission of Inquiry found that in this case the competent national authorities simply did not perform the information, control, criminal function of prosecution. In view of the inadequate or non-action of the competent national authorities which have caused a risk to national security, the Commission of Inquiry has identified the political responsibility of their predecessors or of the following public function holders: for the first time, the then Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, who is responsible for overseeing the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, and, more importantly, has left banks in the field of money laundering prevention, the execution of those measures in the credit and financial institutions and all that is related to the New Ljubljana Bank; for the second time, the then Minister of Finance responsible for preventing and detecting money laundering, or for the work of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the implementation of those measures in the credit and financial institutions and everything connected with the New Ljubljana Bank, including in the role that the Government has still represented AUKN, or represented the owner directly. In his first response to the publication of the results of the work of the investigative commission, France Križanič rejected political responsibility and, in response, stressed that the finance minister does not have such a role in Slovenia, nor does he have the authority to exercise it. The Minister of Finance is also not a level of appeal, he says, in the decision of the Office. More importantly, he does not realize what he has actually done. The response shows that the then Minister of Finance has either not read the publicly published findings of the Commission of Inquiry or still does not understand the concept of political responsibility and does not know the tasks and duties of the Minister of Finance. The Commission of Inquiry does not claim anywhere that the Minister should be involved in individual cases led by the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and that the Minister may be objectively responsible for the poor work or poor management of the Office in a number of proven cases. What is crucial about his responsibility is that he did not act in proven cases of violations of the Iranian embargo, but was not responsible for the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, but for the Ministry directly and on the basis of the EU regulation. It has not informed the Government or the President or the ministers covering these areas of concern. Today it only excuses the search for an email where it should be proven that he had a meeting with the Iranian ambassador, but we do know that this should be reported by the KPK, as Members can or should be doing today, and therefore it is absolutely nothing out of the ordinary. At that time, the Foreign Minister was responsible for the tasks in the field of restrictive measures or sanctions imposed or implemented by the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the legal acts and decisions taken within the framework of international organisations, and the then President of the Government, who led and guided the work of the Government and coordinated the work of ministers, took care of the unity of the direction of the Government. As a witness, however, the Prime Minister repeatedly said that he had not read the reports of the Owl, but had left it to the National Security Advisor. The President of the Government and his National Security Adviser did not have direct communication with the Owl, and there was a stable way of communicating in writing, with little awareness or response. Furthermore, the President of the Government and his National Security Adviser could not use or use the agencies or assess their intelligence messages. In the New Bank of Maribor it was an Italian criminal association, or we call it the Italian typology, where Mr Aleš Hauc led it. And exactly the changes that took place at that time had a significant impact on the abandoned control over what the bank could actually do. Or, in other words, in fact, Italian citizens knew very well that the bank of this control was not even seriously exercising and were mass-using this bank to launder its money, which was of illegal origin. One of the key findings is that we have detected suspicions of money laundering by Slovenian citizens. Among them, of course, is the employed Mr Britovšek, who was employed by Mr Hauc when he became President of the Management Board of the New Bank of Maribor. Four charges will be brought against him on suspicion of crimes. As President, however, I am surprised that the Commission of Inquiry or the National Assembly has been threatened by persons who will actually be able to prove this in court, since the Commission of Inquiry is not a court, nor is the Prosecutor's Office. And, of course, everything he does, he does on the basis of the law, and, of course, he has to declare to the law enforcement authorities. The Commission also found that the Italian typology typically appeared also with Commissioner Dijana Djudžić, who was known, of course, to have used funds that reflected the use of suspected crime, money laundering, fictitious business, tax evasion and tax evasion, destruction, falsification of business documentation and, accordingly, an example of the loan we had been tracking in the documentation was also found. And in this way, of course, also opened the story, which, of course, did not remain complete. The Commission has never claimed that the SDS President signed a loan agreement, aware that it was money of suspicious origin. As a citizen, we would expect politicians to check very closely the sources of funding. For, everywhere in the world, the latter can best be seen in the case of neighbouring Italy, the political parties that have acquired funds from suspicious sources remaining captives of criminal groups, which, of course, also borrowed those funds. However, the SDS announced the lease on the IJPES. It was ordered from a Slovenian account, but it did not publish the owner of the account from which it acquired the loan and also not to which account it was supposed to repay the loan. Dijana Djudžić's account, which was signed by the credit agreement, was closed by NKBM. As a politician, I do not understand my colleagues from the SDS that they react to the results of the investigative commission so aggressively and by trying to discredit it. In fact, we should take a breath of the fact that the Commission has done its work correctly, since all of them, contrary to the law, have borrowed almost half a million euros, have used the same methods, the so-called Italian typologies, as well as Italian criminal associations. That's why we ran into them in the work of the Commission. As a member of the National Assembly, I do not want to think that any important Slovenian political party would become a prisoner of criminal associations. Finally, let me quote Mr Bagateli, who said about POP TV: “The money has not been lost. She lost track of the money.” I would add, however, that with the work done by our commission, there may also be a trace of lost money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u9	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which I will give you procedurally, only to read until the end So, the word will be given to Mr Ivan Hršak after the procedural Mr. Franz Breznik. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u10	Look, I'd like to point out two things. For the first time, Mr Möderndorfer, no one has ever discredited you. Today, when you were talking about us making fun of your profession, just tell the public that you are, I think the president said you're a medical technician. On the other hand, we have a doctor of science who even has experience with Banka Slovenije. You also continue to discredit when you talk about the voter confidence you have. Say straight, Bežigrad 2 elections 2014, the first was SMC, i.e. the most elected votes 4,700, the second was SDS with 1,700 votes, the third was Levica with 1,200 votes, the fourth was Desus, the fifth was Positive Slovenia, the sixth was even SD. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, you only received 701 votes. People wanted the last one to elect Jani Möderndorfer. Even in Bežigrad 2, where you are even, you come from Ljubljana. So don't fool people, tell them that the proportional system you're defending is just this anomaly, this one. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u11	What's his connection? [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u12	Yes, it's human. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u13	Is that it?Oh, my God! [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u14	At least you wanted to be in the National Assembly, you were only seven by this kind. [[…]] This should be noted in order not to deceive [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u15	Can I please? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u16	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u17	Stop abusing yourself procedurally for that way, no! [[…]] [[advertising in the hall]] No, nothing reacts to this point, certainly not, because you all have a chance to say everything and I don't understand at all why it is necessary to use procedurally for such things, for personal attacks. I understand we're just ahead of the election, but I don't understand this, you're absolutely out of it. So, finally, the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Commission of Inquiry shall meet at its 15th emergency meeting, on 16. 5. 2018 adopted the final report on the parliamentary commission on the identification of alleged money laundering and financing of terrorism, nuclear proliferation and financing of activities of foreign security intelligence services in NLB d.d. and alleged money laundering in New Bank of Maribor d.d. as well as an additional final report as well as another supplementary final report. While the final report is available to the public, the additional final report, as well as another supplementary final report for the protection of confidentiality or data protection of a confidential nature under the Company Act, the Bank of Slovenia Act, the Banking Act and the Personal Data Protection Act, as well as under the Secret Information Act are not available to the public. At the same meeting, the Commission of Inquiry also decided unanimously to propose to the President of the National Assembly and his College that the National Assembly, due to the current and resilient nature of the matter, should have all three final reports before the next extraordinary meeting, and that is exactly what we are doing today, but with this restriction that we should discuss the content of the final report in an open, public part of the meeting, and that we must not refer to any additional or additional report. However, we will be able to discuss these protected data in the closed part of the meeting. And what are the key findings of the commission of inquiry? The work of the Commission of Inquiry focused on a more detailed review of the operation of Banka Slovenije and NLB in the case of Farrokh and Police and Sove. In addition to the documentation obtained by the Commission of Inquiry from the State institutions and the hearings it conducted, the Commission of Inquiry also obtained three whistleblowers, using the material stored in the Republic of Slovenia Archives and various publicly available sources and databases. The Investigative Commission notes, in its opening observations, that there was a transaction through which a prior offence occurred and that this transaction was notified in due time to both Owl and the Anti-Money Laundering Office, the Police and the other competent State authorities, which confirmed that at least one transaction witnessed [[?]] Money laundering. The Investigative Commission also submits that at least one transaction was such that it was financed by nuclear proliferation and more were paid for the purchase of dual-use goods and that all the authorities mentioned above were informed in a timely manner. The word “in time” means that it is a period when transactions were still taking place through NLB and investigations by the competent national authorities were also opened. The entire scheme took place in such a way that the transactions came mainly from Iran and over three companies ran across NLB to foreign addressees, mostly Iranian citizens and foreign citizens of Iranian origin. The money laundering mechanism was used in this part to cover the real source of funds. The latter is not unusual, since it is precisely the financing of proliferation and the purchase of dual-use goods by the country under the embargo that requires a scheme in which the source of funds is concealed, which makes it possible to do the most effectively with the techniques of money laundering. The Commission of Inquiry found that the Farrokh case was not yet the first case of cooperation between Slovenia and Iran in breaking the embargo against Iran. The first was long ago in 1979, and the second case of the embargo was the Farrokh case, which took place between 2009 and 2010 and is the subject of a parliamentary investigation. The third case, however, dates back to the beginning of 2012, a good year after the Farrokh case was concluded. And the third case was stopped. The key points of the Iranian business as part of the Iranian scheme of operation in NLB were the Iranian banks Melli Bank and Export Development Bank. Melli Bank was included in the list of companies subject to restrictive measures and the reason for the listing of Melli Bank was the financing of nuclear proliferation. The NLB and its LB have had very close and operational relations with this bank for a very long time. As for the second part of the investigation of our investigative commission, namely the disputed operation of New KBM, there was also alleged money laundering. This was a suspicion of money laundering for the Italian mafia, and since 2016, Bosnian citizen Dijana Djudžić, known from the last loan to the SDS party, which was a typical example of a tax whirlpool, has been dealing with the police of five countries, including Bosnia and Herzegovina, Hungary, Austria, Slovakia and Slovenia, according to available data. In our position, I will not go into any detail, as they have already been presented by the President of the Commission of Inquiry in the previous complementary explanation of the applicant, and more will, I am sure, continue in its debate. However, I will point out the main findings and shortcomings that have led to this unacceptable malpractice, which should never happen again, nor should it ever happen again, and it will also be necessary to amend the sectoral legislation as soon as possible. In short, this could have happened between 2009 and autumn 2010 during the time of the so-called Pahor's government, they did not do their work in accordance with their competences or completely waived: the Bank of Slovenia and the then governor, the then Prime Minister, has the professional responsibility of its then national security adviser, the then finance minister and also the then foreign minister. The Commission therefore finds, on the basis of all the hearings and documents obtained, that in NLB these two years (2009, 2010), except in the foreign payment sector, all control mechanisms have been cancelled at all levels. They are therefore politically responsible: the then President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the then Minister of Finance and the then Foreign Minister. As far as NLB is concerned, the Commission of Inquiry has completed its investigation, while the Commission of Inquiry has failed to complete its investigation on the basis of the lack of time available to it due to the upcoming elections. On the basis of this fact, the Commission of Inquiry proposes that the investigation into the functioning of the NKBM in dispute continue and complete the Commission of Inquiry in the following term or in one of the following mandates of the National Assembly, which of course is the decision of the following calls of the National Assembly. Finally, a proposal for a decision by the Commission of Inquiry to the National Assembly was also drafted by the Commission of Inquiry in five points, which I will not list here, as the President of the Commission of Inquiry has already done so. Therefore, the Commission of Inquiry is today proposing to the National Assembly that the proposal for a decision be adopted, and thus the Commission of Inquiry proposes to the National Assembly that the competent law enforcement authorities in the Republic of Slovenia indicate the suspicions of criminal services as set out in the individual points of the proposal for a decision. The Desus Group will support the proposed decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u19	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues. The Commission of Inquiry was set up when other Commissions of the National Assembly encountered suspicious transactions in Nova Ljubljanska Bank in their work. At the same time, public disclosures also took place at the New Bank of Maribor, a system for money-prevention and related financial crime in a period of time that did not work or acted badly if I express myself very mildly. The Commission has therefore been tasked with investigating the background of two cases where there have been extremely suspicious behaviours in state banks that have enabled high-value transactions that are highly likely to have been linked to financial crime. The key findings were summarized by five points by the Commission, which carried out its work in an extremely short time. For the first time, both in the case of Farrokh in NLB and also in the New Bank of Maribor for the benefit or negligence of this bank, they exposed themselves to serious risks, including the state and its subsystems. The report highlights the importance of national security, intelligence and anti-intelligence activities and the responsibility of the executive branch of the Authority to highlight all necessary for the effective functioning of these services. It is also a report of the decision on the political responsibility of public function holders at the time of the event and that the Commission has completed its investigation into the NLB case. In the case of New KBM, however, it points out that the need to continue the investigation of this case has unfortunately failed to complete its work. The findings so far point to the suspicions of financial crime, with particular concern for certain obvious facts, also directly linked to the largest party and, of course, its President. We have always supported the establishment and functioning of this Commission and have actively participated in its work. It turned out that many suspicions were justified, as the Commission quickly concluded in its work that our banks were either out of greed or because of a worse form of negligence, this would be shown by other investigations, seriously exposed and poorly prepared for various forms of financial crime. The NLB has thus clearly become a victim of the so-called Iranian scheme, an intelligence-led operation by which the state obtained money under sanctions. One or more worrying event in NKBM, where they are responsible - I fear that even consciously - they have allowed money laundering and the financing of highly suspicious money-laundering operations of equally suspicious criminal origin. Of course, it is right for the Commission of Inquiry and thus the National Assembly to inform the law enforcement authorities of the matter without delay when it comes to its work. It is concerned, however, that such discoveries only occur on a day-to-day basis in the work of the investigative commissions, rather than revealing them to the competent police, the bank, the Anti-Money Laundering Office, the intelligence services. How is it possible that none of the state sub-systems of such deviations detected and persecuted them and thus prevented them from repeating them at the earliest possible stage? The individual conduct or omissions of the intelligence, control and repression authorities would be made possible in order to protect classified information, as well as in order to maintain confidence in the institution, only in the closed part of the meeting. But what can be said in the public part of the session is the following. For various reasons, Slovenia has been delaying the arrangements of these subsystems for more than 2 decades, in particular information and counter-intelligence activities, for which we must recognise that they are not working well. If these subsystems were established as a serious state should have, then today the Commission would not have to investigate political responsibilities. It is in this part that we believe that the majority opinion of the Commission is a general and political responsibility assigned in accordance with the principle of the chronicles of old times. Instead of her years and dates, she recorded various events with the mandates of individual governments and ministers and thus determined the responsibility of politicians. For this reason, the Social Democrats would point out that, in stating who was at the designated time at the head of a specific ministry, even if the Commission were more bold and with sufficient criticalness, it could have come to these events or, above all, because the policy has not been able to reach an agreement for half a third decade on the fundamental elements of statehood, including the functioning mechanisms for the prosecution of such crime. And in this context, it is not difficult to find logical answers why part of the policy on the one hand did not want to participate in this committee and, on the other hand, he wanted to prevent its work by abolishing its president. Thus, the red thread of this or other mandates, the dilemma of the independence of institutions, in particular regulatory or supervisory ones, is drawn from the very beginning. For some, autonomy is only good when funds are distributed and when it is expected that no one will ask questions. If the public and policy rightly expect responsibility in return for the previously expressed trust, the independent insist that they resolve the situation themselves, because they are professional and autonomous. We could see this in the pursuit of certain types of crime in the control of banks, in health care and elsewhere, apparently the most unfortunate in Banka Slovenije. Incompetence is often hidden behind the cover of expertise, or at least a much less pink image than the leading ones in these institutions try to show. In particular, the report of this Commission, as well as the report of the Commission investigating the rehabilitation of banks burdening the Bank of Slovenia, which seems to be at least so, also in this case played a significantly less active role in view of the responsibility entrusted to it and the power it has. However, we must not allow such disclosure to undermine the reputation of other well-functioning systems, there must be an opportunity for matters to be settled, in accordance with the principles of the rule of law and the rule of law, in which the first minister is not the first policeman and in which the finance minister does not instruct the Governor of the Central Bank, where trust means responsibility. Social Democrats are hard to imagine a country where action against money laundering operations and other crime is the primary decision of the Prime Minister or the competent minister. The rule of law has its own meaning, the law gives the responsible clear powers of action and the role of the policy and its representatives is not primarily intended to do so. The Bank of Slovenia, as well as the Anti-Money Laundering Office, are usually proud of their broad powers and the autonomy they have; it would be time for them to use it for the common good, not only for their own prestige, but also for all of us. Your Honor! All these advices, all the findings and experience from which the competent institutions, as well as the policy on the basis of the Commission's findings, can be based on the fact that such conduct will no longer occur, and these days are particularly slippery. It is not possible to keep our eyes closed until the elections are only a few more days apart, more than the content of the report itself has been the focus of the problems that has been seen so many times. If anything, it is necessary to be cautious in judgment, who is guilty, and who is responsible. In today's debate on this report, we will still benefit from that good Slovenian advice not to mix pears and apples. The political responsibility of someone or more of them, because the system has been abandoned because things have been under-completed, because the overall control has failed because of the lack of sensitivity, is one thing, and the other is criminal acts with a precise purpose of injury to its advantage. And "so bot", if I may say so, as some want with the same vats of crime and political responsibility that comes with individual functions, force is dangerous and harmful. We are all gathered here today under the background of political responsibility, and for all these days behind us and for all the decisions we have made here in this place. The same applies to the Government, to the decisions taken by this and all governments in return. And let me take this parable: a burglar comes into the house, an alarm system cancels, a burglar walks quietly around the house, and gives valuables into his bag; when the burglar is long gone, the lodgers begin to find out what the burglar has taken away. Now the question is: Are the tenants of this house as guilty as the burglar because they didn't check the alarm, or is it working or not? Should we do that? Will the same weight be applied to the same category of occupants and burglars? Ladies and gentlemen, today is a time when we must, as we have said, say what is responsibility, including political responsibility, and what is crime, and ask ourselves what to do, that the burglars will no longer be able to repair the alarm system, and especially that the burglars should be found competent, all those who have used, supported or cooperated with the heavy financial maneuvers in the NLB and New KBM. In this way, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the report of the Commission of Inquiry, expecting to find in the new mandate so much wisdom, common ground and trust that we will finally establish a fair system of trust in institutions and the necessary mechanisms. We also expect that the work of the parliamentary commission of inquiry on money laundering at the New Bank of Maribor will continue in the coming term and that all other issues relevant to our collective security as well as confidence in the rule of law and sovereign state will be clarified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u21	The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! I will not read the report; unlike the others, I have only a few points on which I will lean, for several reasons, because in the positions of the parliamentary groups in serious parliaments this is not read; the second reason is that I have run this circle twice, once in the KNOVS, for the second time in this investigation. Before I start, I'd like to add something else. You know, elections are no excuse for being unserious. Whoever is grumbled at the findings of this Commission should be removed from Slovenian politics. Let's get started, first time, ethics and morality. This rather unfortunate mandate of Cerara's government has begun with a huge debate on ethics and morality. Both my personal opinion and the opinion, the position of the Left is that it concerns and morals show through actions, not through, I'll just say, because I have at the end of my tongue, a chatter about ethics and morality. Ethics and morality first manifest themselves through actions, when I speak of the National Assembly and the politics of each of us, who must first be stricter to himself, then to his own and then to others. If this were the case, if there had been a provision under Article 93 of the Constitution to Article 82 and Article 14 to Article 14, there would have been no such commission. The so-called Logar Commission would expand, and we'd have to look at ours first. But it wasn't like that. Jani told you why not. Second, “It’s not true”. It was an article, a little older, we remember in a politician's entertainer or entertainer, whatever you want. Members of this commission, I am the least experienced political kilometer away from them, deeper and deeper than we went we were looking. Not because of that, you know, because we expected bankers to have insanely poor middle-term, let alone a long-term memory. The higher they were on the scale, the higher they had the discharges, the higher they got, the more arrogant they got. This is that Mr Borut Pahor is such a pischmeuhovska, I cannot say otherwise, unfortunately, for the president of the country, we also knew creation. That is not true, but it is about when we have also identified some very experienced policy, and I will not count how many political parties this country has been, how much it has stolen. I even joked if I knew that, and I'd be a bastard, I'd be a mule a couple of times, and now I'd be the owner of the island, and I'd have Maybach, not just that Mercedes you're challenging Luke Mescu, a respected SDS property. Let's move on, KPK, you've probably forgotten about when and why [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u23	A little expression, please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u24	Cuts of Jelinčič and Staret [[…]] [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] You know, they cut them because they started looking at bank folders. Would you shut up, Dr. Logar? Because they started looking. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u25	Now please, can you all die together? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u26	You're probably already [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u27	Can we all get together a little bit? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u28	you're probably already [[…]] [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Is it okay if I keep going? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u29	Just wait a minute. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u30	Stop my time, please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u31	Now here's the thing. It is certainly not a good word and is not used in this way. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] And the others, stop it and I warned him not to do it. I've never given a warning before. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u32	You'll give me time. So, if I may continue. Perhaps most of you have forgotten some story to the president of the political parties of the unproven property of money, in particular Mr Jankovic and Mr Ivan Janez Janša, who are absent here. And I'm not just pointing my finger at Janša, I'm telling Janković, by the way, that you won't tell me. You must have forgotten that at that time some cousin of Janša's said, yes, I was paying the bills because I wasn't interested in the amount. If anyone does, a bank officer should know that the amount should be checked from where this cash comes from. If I Kordiš went to the bank “Hopza Cefizelj!” all the media would go crazy, Slovenia would burn. Of course not for certain people. Let's move on. The key point of our commission is what I call a eloquent organigram. This is particularly problematic with Banka Slovenije and with the police. Mr. Pahor suggested in a kind of laziness: "Ah, my generation of politicians thought we would set up some institutions and act on their own." If you set up an institution that is so structured that it is itself dysfunctional, if at the same time you are also negatively politically staffing, then you have a country where “pece of cake” followed the money. And this, unfortunately, has been and is still to a large extent Slovenia. I will touch the bank in the city where I come from and it is still to a large extent Slovenia. I'll touch the bank in the city I come from, the New Maribor Credit Bank. You know, the so-called Italian typology has probably been happening since the Toneto Ropa government, definitely since the first Janša government, the police have already made it very clear to the detective in 2008, the Bank of Slovenia and the bankers have a serious consultation in the first half of 2009 on this, the Italian typology, still happening to you at the New Bank of Credit Maribor in recent months 2017. Who is objectively responsible? All the policies, all the key officials who have been in positions to deal with this and to the Bank of Slovenia, are often recruited into the police in mixed political cuisine. As in this mandate, the SMC has scrambled and agreed with the SDS on the related staffing lines of who will be the post director, what will be the fiscal council, who will be in control of SDH, and the Constitutional Court to the vice-president of the Governors of Banka Slovenije, who will be respected by the gentlemen. But you know, and here it is, here's essentially some problem, and if I look at this old policy, the fifth point of the operation, here I wrote, laser removal of the malignant tumor of the generation of Borut Pahor, John Janez Janša and Loizet Peterlet. That's it. Until this happens, until there is a new policy, not just a new face, a new policy with integrity, we, ladies and gentlemen, are some kidnapped kleptopathic, often criminal state coexisted by politics. And that's, you know, basically a key point of this commission. We will, of course, support conclusions and reports in the left hand side, and a new policy will have to take everything together more seriously and people will have to think more seriously and think more about who we will trust in this new policy. You know that some middle-ranking Italian mob even boasts about how to get to Sežana, says I am Luigi, opens up a company registered for all living and in 2014 until the end of 2017 washes half the second track, and that one week of this has been proven to be because, although there is no insane cooperation with the Italian side due to some pragmatic problem, who will sit on this money and keep quiet about it and pretend that it is nothing, and if some old structures of the old system through NLB react to their networks, the cladestines, and it is almost impossible to figure out, you know, it is all alarms must go away. And I will end with this, suspect Commander Markos, a very famous quote to me, this is the leader of the rebellion in a certain part of Mexico, the elderly who were wanted by global corporations to drive them off their land. When they talk about the old policy of the left and right, or if you want, of the social democrats and liberals and the so-called right on the other hand, Markos said: “Left or right, is basically a guide to the limo driver on which side of the street to park this limo.” [[Incomprehensible]] And this bank investigator found out exactly that. We need a new policy that will not be intimidated by this horror of state theft, which has happened to SMC. We need upright ladies and gentlemen who will definitely threaten them with a death penalty, probably one of them will also have to be a protected person, perhaps one of them will have to withdraw his own family from Slovenia. You know, they often replace Slovenia and Slovakia in hockey. If I look at NKBM, the difference between Slovenia and Slovakia is simply that journalists are shooting journalists in Slovakia and journalists with prostitutes in Slovenia. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u33	Procedurally, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u34	President! On behalf of the parliamentary group, allow me to strongly protest – probably for the last time – against your work. The predecessor used the expression 'own' and you looked calmly at the ground, or at something you had ahead of you. If this parliamentary group had not responded by protesting, the matter would have passed and the SDS would have been used the term 'invoke' because you did not react. You didn't react until after we picked up.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u35	No, I reacted right away.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u36	The other thing is, do you let me finish? [[…]] I got three minutes, don't I? I have told you many times that you are the worst President of the National Assembly, and that you have allowed the work of this National Assembly to go far below the lowest level since its independence. For the last time, I went to see what it was like to be reminded. President, you did not give one single warning to the coalition MPs. It's just a reminder. You have shared the warnings exclusively on this side and on the United Left. It's exclusive! History will tell you that. This means that you are leading the work of the National Assembly with extreme irresponsibility and extreme bias. The President of the National Assembly shall be one of the Members, who shall be equal to each other, shall have only certain rights and duties, which shall be conferred on him in particular by the Rules of Procedure and other acts. And nothing else. Therefore, from the President of the National Assembly, a normal Member expects balance. The President, if I were to sit there, hypothetically, I would not, first of all, give a reminder in my career when I sit there, to the Members of my Group. Why? To show that I'll be the same to everyone. That's why I would do it. You haven't been able to do that in four years of running the National Assembly. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] You haven't been able to do this once! President, that's unfair, that's irresponsible, that's unfair. But, you know, the coalition majority is just a coalition majority, and the people are people. We cannot give you a warning to me, but a warning will be given to you by the people. I object to your work on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u37	Now, before I put my word forward, I can answer that. First of all, your word against mine, that I have spoken reminders also unto my messengers here. [[…]] So you're saying it's not true. Secondly, I reacted as soon as the word appeared and for the first time since I was in this National Assembly, I interrupted the implementation of the position of the Group of Members because this matter was sufficiently clear. Today, however, there is absolutely no point in giving or not giving warnings for one simple reason – however, procedurally, it will most likely continue to react and not waste time to discuss. However, I would like to ask nicely: personal insults or, I will say, totally inappropriate additional qualifications, except for the definition of a political position to take place or, on the other hand, to individual political actors, which is an integral part of a normal democratic debate, do not involve any further insults. There is nothing more that can be done at this point in this mandate. He was procedurally demanding Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, chairman. See, in these four years, the rules of procedure have been implemented on Miho Kordiši and on me, and then it has almost ceased, half over some SDS Members. Now, if someone recognized himself in a word I said, they'd be recognized. But you know, this party that's "pent" me and mine called me "left fascist", "zombi", "born left", and I'm not going to go on. At the last meeting, my procedural proposal is to finally implement the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u39	Once again, the procedure of Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u40	Thank you very much. The President, if you would please state at any time and where, without giving a warning to your Members. Can you tell me when you performed it? I know you won't be able to do it now, because you don't have the files in front of you, but please let me know in writing, the task force, if there's no more meetings. But if there's going to be a meeting of the National Assembly, I'm asking you to tell the public. That's one thing. That's another thing. Look, you're at one of the meetings a while ago, I think it was March, I was given a reminder, completely past the Rules of Procedure. Why? Because I finished my speech and left. And around here in the position of Mrs Ludmila Novak you commented on something and I told you something back, I don't know exactly what and so you gave me a reminder, give me some more words, then give me a reminder when I'm at home in the garden, and when I'm weeding, but give me a reminder there. You can't give me a reminder at a time when I'm no longer in favor of a payphone and when I can't talk anymore. Come in. Make sure someone says "take possession," that doesn't mean -- that doesn't mean someone recognized himself. He has even designated the Group of Members, even the Group of Members, as his own. And you can say that the word "acquisition" is an inappropriate word. See what you can say?Oh, my God! Yeah, let me ask you, can you still run the National Assembly? You can, of course you can, because you have a mandate, but you're right. It is not right that you do not give a warning for such a sharp word, but you say that it is not a proper word. Make sure I'm done and I'm not going to owe you. There were many presidents of the National Assembly ahead of you. There were a lot of them. Say, Mr. Weber. I mentioned it several times, far from my views, far from my political options, but it was a gentleman who sat up there and could say, I am also reminding my parliamentary group. He could say it, he could do it, and many others were, and you can't do it in four years. And the President, you will go back to history, as I told you. But I believe that before that, the people will say something. In short, once again I express deep disappointment [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] on behalf of the parliamentary group on your work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u41	The text is by the Group of Non-Aligned Members for her, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek. I'm sorry. I was wrong. Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia - Christian Democrats for her Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, President. The first thing that should be for the next term is that in this National Assembly, if we really want to work for the common good and to improve the reputation of policy, that we should adopt one in principle, or that we do not take offense at each other, that we do not bet ourselves in this way, as we have seen in recent discussions, because this is not a contribution to anything, nor does it contribute to us being able to make a qualitative debate in identifying the alleged money laundering, transactions that have been carried out. Let us therefore be serious and accountable to those who follow the policy, who also decide in the framework of the political campaign who will be entrusted with their vote. And what we are, if I continue, is not only here, but a whole society that tolerates or allows what kind of country we are, which allows nothing to happen if someone passes the law, launders money or transforms one billion euros of money, does a number of transactions. These transactions are moving forward. So what effect such a situation has on society on the effect of general prevention. What do those who may be planning to commit new such crimes think at this time? In fact, we give signals in this country by our doing that such crimes are paid off, that no one gets hurt, and that the same is true for the bank hole, in this case, when we find the suspicions of money laundering. And the findings of some, Slovenia is in fact becoming an oasis for financial machinations and such crimes. Now, but this is a real message for the Slovenian public that we have law enforcement authorities, which in this case, both in the case of the NKBM and in the case of the New Ljubljana Bank, have not reacted in time and properly. Is this the right message for the Slovenian public that we have the Bank of Slovenia, which has also reacted wrongly, that we also have a policy that says it has not been informed? So is the current way of dealing with this kind of crime the path that we must take or take in the future? Of course, it's clear. And transactions from Iran and money laundering to NKBM clearly show that such crimes could also be prevented when the rule of law is properly operated. And I'd like to point out another problem. State ownership of banks, all of which happened in banks that were state-owned. There's another one. And if anything, because of our citizens, to prevent such things and not to move our reputation abroad, it would be right for us to sell that bank that we own, NLB, quickly. And here again we appeal to the future government, because this opportunity has already been missed despite clear commitments. First there's a few words about Iran. Look, what seems amazing is that nothing happens when someone transforms 1 billion euros of money, nothing happens. And it seems unlikely that the summit of Slovenian politics, the finance minister, the then Prime Minister, now the president of the country, is uninformed. That politicians speak out, I don't remember, very much like one of the other investigative committees is pronounced by bankers, it's ridiculous, it's irresponsible. The politician remembers, and otherwise he can be remembered by the media. And it seems incredible that the investigative authorities have reacted slowly despite all the warnings they received in the case of transactions from Iran. And it seems incredible that Banka Slovenije is reacting wrongly. So I say that the biggest problem in this case, as far as Iran is concerned, was that there was no response when the first information was already on the table and this response should have happened. And the key question is whether all of this seems to be intentional, whether these authorities are so persecutive, the Bank of Slovenia, as well as policy have deliberately reacted so that they have gone blind to both eyes and overlooked the financial machination that has taken place. The more active operation of the Bank of Slovenia in this case, as noted by the Commission of Inquiry, could help to more quickly detect suspicions of money laundering violations and final action. Last but not least, who believes that this gentleman from Iran, who knocked on the NLB's Ljubljana branch, stepped into it and opened up a transaction account here and started with financial transactions to make it up himself, got the New Ljubljana Bank himself out of a crowd of all the banks available in the European Union if he wanted to choose the European Union. Or why didn't he choose any private banks in Slovenia? No, he chose the New Ljubljana Bank on purpose. And the key is who brought this gentleman here. And we could talk about this today about what kind of system we have that the New Ljubljana Bank seemed safe enough for someone from Iran to come here and conduct a billion-euro transaction. And that is also the correct conclusion of the commission of inquiry. It wasn't always about money laundering, just in one case. It was about transforming a large amount of money. And what is the conclusion of other investigative bodies? Based on these transactions, someone in America has been convicted. This is also one of the epilogues of this whole story. The key to Iranian washing is that, in particular, such works violate our international reputation, our trust in the international public. They also have a reputation for our citizens and citizens. So what kind of legal country are we that allows this? So they have a complete lack of trust among people, and criminal acts in this country are being paid off. Of course, no one is responsible for them. NKBM. Here, basically, the story repeats itself. That in the larger cases we can see who made it possible or why they were Italian companies, and this was not one Italian company, these were a crowd of Italian straw companies, opened here in Slovenia at the border with Italy precisely in the bank of NKBM transaction accounts, established companies. Why? Because these people felt safe here. Why didn't they go open their transaction accounts to Banka Koper for example? Oh. K., Italian property, yes. Or another bank, which also has a branch office along the border, if they were very close if they wanted to get close to Italy. And even in this story despite warnings, this time Banka Slovenije and calls, NKBM did not respond in a timely manner and responded effectively despite the larger regulations, it was not until last year that it finally adopted legal rules to prevent such acts. And the story is actually strange, and it all shows that this money laundering was made possible from the bank. That the so-called Italian typology made it possible from the bank. For if anyone thinks and if anyone is so naive, that Italian citizens are just somewhere in the European situation of the NKBM, that they're laundering money in the bank, and that's all the companies, there was no scattered money laundering at the border, in different banks, but exclusively the NKBM have chosen. So more than 500 Italian citizens have set up these straw companies, and I claim that it is precisely because these individuals feel safe here that nothing will happen to them, and that such crimes of money laundering can be committed smoothly. Then they followed the lifts in a few days, which suggests money laundering. These same people, representatives of companies came to the banks and raised the cash out afterwards. Which is the conclusion of the whole story, however, we must point out a country based on the law that will be able to prevent such crimes. Above all, it's not just about the international reputation, it's not just about our country, it's about having a country, and if we have a country, we have to treat it responsibly, normally. And if we allow such things to be done as money laundering is done in NKBM, if we have bodies that do not respond to it, then we are not a normal country to follow the elements of justice. And we're arguing that these crimes are worth it. However, for the next term, the majority of the new Members present here will most likely also sit in the next term in the Chamber, and I hope that an investigative commission will be set up in the next term to identify money laundering in both banks or in any additional case if suspicions are identified. Because of my claim that the story is not yet over, only when the investigative commission has so far found that we can talk about any other money laundering in the New Ljubljana Bank from branches in the Balkans and other illegal transactions that could have been carried out through banks. Or money laundering, transactions from the eastern countries of the European Union or from the east of Europe, even further. All of this is the New Ljubljana Bank and the NKBM, so we have made it possible for the money laundering oasis to be determined in the next mandate, and the law enforcement authorities and the Bank of Slovenia are the ones who must prevent such actions from being repeated.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u43	The text is by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u44	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! The analysis of the report before us shows the deviant behaviour in two Slovenian banks. A typical example of systemic corruption, where we see that in normal situations all institutions, the police, the prosecution, the Anti-Money Laundering Office, officials such as ministers, KPK officials and others, work, but when the elites are involved, all institutions fail and nothing happens. This indicates that the government does not rule, and that is why the National Assembly has to do the work that institutions and officials are supposed to do. If the institutions were to operate, then this work would not have to be done. We wonder who influenced these institutions and officials not to do their job. The analysis also shows that the report consists of three parts. The first part, so much money from Iran through Slovenia to Europe and the United States of America - typical elements of money laundering that point to the “smurfing” method when the money disperses into smaller parts and loses its trail. How much of this money went into Slovenia's account to return money to Slovenia, this has to be discovered. In this first part, the findings are consistent with the findings of the Banking Hole Investigation Commission and are a duplication of these findings. The second part, focused on NKBM, is typical criminal-type organisations from Italy with the common name mafia. The mafia is found to have moved into the economy years ago, and instead of classical crimes, they see that there are more profits in the economy and they use banks to do so. If there's control in the bank and there's nothing to be done, which shows deviantity and concealing the flow of money, then you do it in a bank where there are no control mechanisms. And it is clear that they immediately found banks in Slovenia that were willing to do so for the prize. In money laundering, we need to find out where these awards went, what the assets of those involved are, whether they are the leaders in banks, in supervisory councils, in supervisory institutions or in politics. And then part three. In the third part, it is one example, which also has other elements, namely, elements of money laundering, elements of tax evasion and elements of tax avoidance, so-called tax whirls. This is an "ad personam" approach, a case in point. If the institutions have not played their role, which shows that they are not, but this is mainly about Furs, the Anti-Money Laundering Office and other agencies of the Ministry of Finance, then the Commission of Inquiry may determine why these institutions have not played their role. And these institutions, on a case-by-case basis, must formulate their opinions. To conclude, all three forms are characterised by the fact that property has been damaged and that the reputation of banks, economies and Slovenia has been undermined, which is why the reputation in the European Union is so poor. On the other hand, we had persons who had become rich or who had acquired a position to continue to do so. However, these persons must answer, namely, criminally, so that the police, the prosecution, joint investigation groups, specialised investigative groups and all other bodies can act. Second, indemnity, which means they have to start following the money, getting it, freezing it and getting it back, because the goal is to pay the money back, not that people are in jail, which is what it costs. And, of course, in the end – corruption's responsibility. Here, however, is the chandelier of those who have occupied the situation, even though they have damaged state property. It's time we said, "Enough." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u45	The text is addressed to Mr Saša Tabaković, the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u46	Mr President, thank you for saying so. On the basis of the evidence obtained, the Commission of Inquiry found that the Iranian scheme, which was directly in the hands of the Iranian State, had taken place in Nova Ljubljanska Bank, and that it was not only an individual who tried to carry out Iranian payment transactions abroad, but that Mr Farrokh was part of the Iranian State Bank Transaction Scheme through Slovenia or NLB. The Farrokh case, according to the Commission of Inquiry, was far from the first example of cooperation between Slovenia and Iran in breaking the embargo on Iran, and cases were also to be linked not only to the illegal export of military technology, but also to three embargoes via the Slovenian banking system. The second example of the embargo bank break is the case of Farrokh, which took place between 2008 and 2010. In this regard, the Commission of Inquiry also noted that the Iranian Ambassador had visited the then Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and the Minister of Finance with a view to opening the Slovenian banking market for Iran, although Iran, the country against which the international community adopted the sanctions implemented in 2007, was the last acts of the two international organisations of the European Union and the United Nations whose members we are members, and sanctions against Iran date back to 2010. In the case of four transactions in NLB, there was a suspicion that they were directed directly at financing nuclear proliferation and buying dual-use goods, i.e. goods that could be used for both civil and military purposes. The transactions included even two banks in the International Community Sanctions List, with which it was prohibited to cooperate. What, then, is the key to this story? Undoubtedly, all control mechanisms were virtually cancelled. Ministers under the government of Borut Pahor did not know exactly what their tasks were, but the Governor of Banka Slovenije Marko Kranjec, who was supported by the National Assembly during the Janša government, did not do his work, according to the report and documentation. In view of the inadequate or non-action of the competent national authorities that caused a risk to national security, the Commission of Inquiry found the political responsibility of their predecessors or of the following public function holders: Mr Kranjc, then Minister of Finance of the Bank of Slovenia, Mr Križanič, then Foreign Minister Zbogar and then Prime Minister Pahor, who, as a witness, had repeatedly said that he had not read the reports of the Sova, but had left them to the National Security Adviser. The Commission also examined the suspicions of money laundering by Italian criminal associations in NKBM, for which there were strong indications, as a number of Italian citizens associated with mafia associations opened transactions in NKBM, where remittances were followed very quickly by cash withdrawals. In 2013 and 2014, NKBM carried out a number of reorganisations and staff replacements, including politically motivated ones, which had a significant impact on the operation of the bank and caused a risk in the PPDF area, which, of course, was used mainly by foreign citizens associated with criminal associations. Dr. Primož Britovšek, who came to the bank at the invitation of Aleš Hauca, also plays one of the key roles for such a situation in the bank next to Aleš Hauca. He was also a Deputy Commissioner for PPDFT, although he had no knowledge of the work. Britovšek also had a missing report from the then authorised authority, which pointed out the alarming situation in this area, and covered it up to the Bank of Slovenia, which was in the bank, as it was a burden for the bank, and was also indirectly responsible for replacing the delegate or for covering up the trail and addressing the new authority to prepare the internal control report in this area. The Commission of Inquiry will therefore file four criminal charges against Primoža Britovska. The Commission also found that the so-called Italian typology, based on the misuse of accounts characterised by inflows by Italian legal or natural persons followed by cash withdrawals in a short period of time, also appeared in the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizen, Mrs Dijana Djudžić, who acted as part of a well-organised association that opened bank accounts through straw companies, through which cash flows of unknown origin were directed and generally raised in cash. Djudžić opened an account in NKBM after having closed an account for suspicious transactions by one of the foreign banks or her subsidiaries operating with us. The business activity of Djudžić in NKBM took place until October 2017. At that time, the NKBM account carried out several suspicious transactions, the amount being even six zeros. The total amount may also be higher as the Commission of Inquiry could not obtain private-owned bank data. The Investigative Commission found that Diana Djudžić's business reflects the suspicions of money laundering, fictitious business, tax evasion and tax evasion, and the destruction and counterfeiting of business documents. The findings are significant, however, because Mrs Djudžić has cooperated businessly with the SDS party or signed a loan agreement with its President, Mr Janša. After hearing the views of the Parliamentary National Assembly, we can see that in our country for a long time it has been self-evident, that there are many or many things that have gone wrong, that this has mainly affected the times when the SD or SDS occupied government premises. Whether this will become socially acceptable or a matter of the past is, of course, a matter for those who will also give these findings a judicial epilogue. In the SMC Group, we will support the conclusions proposed by the Commission as well as the report as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u47	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u48	Your Honor! Good-bye to all of you. Europe is waking up. All Europe is turning to the right, to the right values, to security and panic on the left. It is scary, you have been able to see this today when the representative of the Levice, his fellow Member, even the group, addresses with “advocacy” and the President of the National Assembly reacts only after warning from the bench that such harsh insults in parliament certainly have nothing to look for. However, if they occur, they should be responded immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are considering a report by a special investigator, which was set up to explore what has already been explored by two competent working bodies. The report ahead of us has one very interesting feature that I can find a parallel in history. Look, after the II. World War II was in Germany, western part, not eastern part, but western part, a very pronounced process of denaccination. There's been a lot of lustration. This was carried out by special courts. Unfortunately, they got it from the wrong end. The result was that relatively harsh convictions were made against those at the lowest level. Those at the top, with the exception of those who were convicted in the Nuremberg trial, that was an exception, but remained close to the summit, and those who gave actual commands received at the end of some of the papers with which they were forgiven to be innocent. The Germans then called them "persilschein" mockingly after that washing powder, Persil. And today we are dealing with one such "persilschein", ladies and gentlemen. I don't know why this happened, but it's up to those who did it. When it comes to the record itself, these findings are practically the same as those already identified, either in the Security Intelligence Supervisory Commission or in the Commission responsible for the so-called bank hole. Only the material is extensive. Some things are also a little bit more enlightened, which is good. The problem comes to an end, conclusions. Ladies and gentlemen, there's Persil Schein. Look, only if we go in order. For some names will be in their eyes, not because of the findings of this commission, but because they are not there. Look at the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance was headed by Dr. Franc Križanič, co-responsible according to the organisation of the work and the powers of State Secretary Helena Kramnar and mag. Matthew the Vranic. These are all the names we've talked about in our reports. The ones the National Assembly has already confirmed. They're missing them in this material. Even more so, the Ministry of the Interior will look into the eyes. At that time he was led by Katarina Kresal, if anyone, this ministry should carry out its task. And you know how this ended?Oh, my God! We have found this on my committee that someone has written only one note on paper, that this should be completed because there are no signs of a crime and this was the end of the process. Look, if your bike is stolen, the police will eventually give the D.A. a record to find out that the unsub is this and that and this guy, but he couldn't figure out who he is, but it'll end with the D.A.'s record. The story of the laundering of one billion euros, as it turned out, of Iranian money, ended without any notification to the prosecution. You know that, ladies and gentlemen, those who were there are responsible. They were informed, they were informed by Owl by a special letter that all of this was happening, the procedure was running, it ended with one note on one piece of paper. Who were they? Mrs. Katarina Kresal - Minister, mag. Goran Klemenčič - Secretary of State and Damjan Lah - Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen, have you noticed a sample of anyone missing from this "Persil schein" which is called the report of the Miderndorfer Commission. Yes, those in the current government. Very simple. They're innocent. They're on leave. Consider, for example, what KNOVS found about their conduct. The Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission, I quote: in a specific case, was surprised by the conduct of the KPK led by Dr Goran Klemenčič. They received a secret whistleblower document from the Bank of Slovenia indicating the suspicion of a crime of money laundering. The KPK assessed that it was not competent, so the document was handed over to the Police, the NPU, on an informal basis. Before that, they put together a document to protect the whistleblower. The document was processed until it was recognizable. In addition, the criminal offence was not transferred to the police on the basis of the provisions of the CAP, as ordered by the concluded agreement between the KPC and the Ministry of Interior and the Police of 1. 6. In 2010, but the document was handed over to an NPU official who took it to the police and then lost every trace of it. The management of the KPK is contrary to the existing agreement between the KPK, the MNZ and the Police of 1. 6. 2010 means a breach of the officially designated operation of the official institutions and, of course, it also entails responsibility for itself, ladies and gentlemen. But this is not a finding by me personally, this is not a finding by the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services, this is a finding confirmed by a vast majority of the votes cast by this composition of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. But this, this, this Miderndorfer committee, has no longer noticed. Why is it not listed here between Marka Kranjec, Franz Križanič, Samuel Žbogar, Borut Pahor. Surely their fault is objective, even subjective, in the part where they did their work recklessly or did not read the reports of the Owl. But these people are missing. Then what was the purpose of this commission's work?Oh, my God! And then forward. Also missing are the names of Police Director-General Janka Gorska, then the administrations of the criminal police, and the National Investigation Office, which was run by Harry Furlan at the time, and so on and so forth. We've really dealt with all of this here. There was no need to detect hot water here. Perfect nonsense is what was said to be a problem because the papers were not handed out. These were already the findings that were here, have been verified and have all been in hand and are, of course, accessible to everyone, since they are written in the archives of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, not just the investigators. So we're dealing with now, how could this happen? [[Incomprehensible]] At first, the president of the commission complained very much that he was being hindered. Now hindered, ladies and gentlemen, it must have been on its own, for you must know that Mr Möderndorfer claimed that everything we had done on the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Board, that it was illegal for us to have exceeded our powers, so we should not have acquired material for this, should not have examined it, should not have written the findings and nothing. He claimed that everything was completely illegal, as he did today. Yes, if everything is illegal, then illegally obtained materials must not be used, because otherwise everything will be legally null and void. That's the legal procedure. Well, of course, there is great stupidity or misdirection in this too, because if that were true, as Mr Möderndorfer claims, then I would not have dealt with it and would not have confirmed the National Assembly. In fact, he was put to a lie by the National Assembly when it was verified by its vote. So much for his impeccability. But he said in Kalimerian that he didn't get the materials from the investigator. Of course, it was not possible for them because it was a special decision of the Court and then it was necessary to respect the procedure, otherwise those who would have given them to him could still be held liable in the event of further actions. Even more interesting is the complaint over the comment on the proposal for its resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, this wasn't done two months ago or like he said before. I said that then before Mr Möderndorfer was named on this forehead. I warned you he was in a conflict of interest. If we're being precise, what's the real deal? The law states that if he was alone or one of the persons responsible in the body of the legal person who is connected to the subject of the investigation and so on, such a Member, I quote: “He must not be appointed to the commission of inquiry.” Mr Möderndorfer was the president of the Olympic Club, initially temporary, and then permanent in the period from 2010 to 2017, from 2010 onwards, this is said in the period to which this story relates. And in this period, following the 2016 report, a contract was signed by Mr Möderndorfer in the amount of EUR 240 000 or, after the first report, EUR 360 000 owed to the New Ljubljana Bank, and then it was subject to an enforcement settlement. This report was already intended for forced settlement. And among the biggest creditors of the Olympics basketball club was Furs, the so-called tax administration, the one who pays for everything if you want, for education, for health care, at the end of the day, who gets taxpayers' money. And this is what the club owes almost €190,000 for the VAT bill. And the question arises whether it was really an attempt to avoid paying tax or tax debt. In any case, there is a question of the appearance of impartiality, as the law knows, and that is why Mr Möderndorfer should never have been appointed head of the Commission. However, if this is the case today with the ridicule of accepting it, if you think that it refers to having an open personal account there, it certainly says a lot about him, the facts, the legal facts and this disputed conflict of interests, which is obvious, does not change in any way, because the subject matter of the investigation was precisely the New Ljubljana Bank. There were also many comments on the findings made by KNOVS. Among other things, for foreign intelligence. See, ladies and gentlemen, the KNOVS found the following, and this was confirmed again by the conclusions of the National Assembly, that Owa, with special intelligence, informed 21 partner services, but did not familiarise the American and Israeli services with the explanation that those citizens were not covered by NLB remittances, which, of course, is not true, since more such transactions were then found inside. Among them is the New York Mellon Bank, even the subject of one of the U.S. investigations is one of these freaks. It was only later that the data were requested, but not all relevant information was exchanged and we found that the treatment of these two partner services was different from that of all others. Apparently, there has also been inadequate conduct here, and similar to the police I quote, the UCP has not requested Interpol from anyone for cooperation or transaction data of Farrokh, etc., and others, even though the funds were also transferred through the NLB to the account of the natural and legal persons of the UNDOF. The ZNR was the first to receive remittances from Nova Ljubljanska banka from Mr Farrokhzadeh’s accounts. It is said, ladies and gentlemen, that such irregularities have occurred here unquestionably. Now, to clear up the story we're talking about today, I've been trying to sort it out. No one has been particularly informed about this and I have proposed the withdrawal of the level of confidentiality from the whole story and from all the findings of the Commission's entire report on the supervision of security and intelligence services. Of course, this would require the agreement of all the others who gave the documents and data at the time. Unfortunately, I must say that with an exceptional KPC, both Owl and the police, as well as the Anti-Money Laundering Office, have rejected the proposal so that I cannot do so. If this were to be public, then there would be much less room for any reinterpretation or interesting interpretations either of the events itself or of the findings. In particular, because it is part of what is now being reported, the Commission of Möderndorfer is based on an obvious principle. For one thing, we have said that the Persian scechin for Mr Klemenčič, and for all the others who are in the broader composition of the current Government, and obviously for this purpose this Commission was also the only one set up. And on the other hand, there's ways to bring around that old leftist trick. You know what the oldest left-wing trick is to point at one in the back and yell at the thief so that people don't notice how deep the left-hand man has his hand in their wallet or in their pocket. And it's the same here. This, of course, is why they try in all ways to glue together either the government of Janez Janša or SDS. And let's say there's one very interesting conclusion, and it's even there that she's responsible for that because she named two years earlier one that didn't exactly do their job two years later. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone can name anyone in good faith, of course, just as voters can choose anyone in good faith. Of course, it is the issue of sanctions when there is an irregularity, but this is the responsibility of the Government, which is then in a position rather than earlier. This is truly amazing how he wants to point his finger at others in all our ways just so that no one really knows who is responsible for any irregularity. For if we had gone to this, we would also have met the names of the former secretaries of the State, who were then in the government, who, behold, were again in this government. Yeah, that's why they're not in there. We're back at Persilschein. One pardon so you don't see who's really to blame. But, ladies and gentlemen, you are too late, because that report, including all the names that are, of course, covered in this report, has already been confirmed by the National Assembly. I only hope that the law enforcement authorities and all those responsible will properly investigate everything — including what you are now pointing out. And I firmly believe that it will prove how politically motivated some of your actions and also some of the conclusions that are written here have been. For most of that first part, you could agree with what you're pushing against force, because it happens to suit you politically, but it's a joke. Now you're trying to level something out in some way, which is probably not a crime - and even if it is, it's just a crime - with very serious crimes, such as, say, one billion laundered money. Well, that's a reasonable suspicion. In doing so, you also manipulated the data a lot earlier. At the time, we talked about the fact that experts involved in such crime know that in such money laundering operations it is, say, for a country that is under embargo due to suspicion of terrorism, financing of proliferation or the purchase of weapons of mass destruction, as it is said in Slovenian that these commissions are also a quarter, even a third and more. And that's why we've talked about these commissions, and then you've tied it up with bank commissions, and that part is controversial, in our opinion, when only in this case did the bank exempt the payment of commissions in these enormous amounts of Mr Farrokhzadeh's sums, and not the domestic entrepreneurs. So what's the double criterion now? If someone did, they should probably have everything, or no one, or at least one part of our entrepreneurs on the same scale, but not that one foreigner should be forgiven, but not domestically. Something doesn't count here, and it's probably clear to everyone, and that's why I don't understand that in this kind of controversy the current Möderndorfer Commission is letting go at all, because it's definitely an act that's obviously controversial. As regards all irregularities, which have been identified either by previous commissions or referred to by the current Commission in its work, I also personally expect, in the SDS, that the law enforcement authorities do their work properly. In fact, because of this, ladies and gentlemen, it is only right to put things in the right place. But I expect, and I rightly expect that the standards of equality before the law will finally be respected, without being separated from those of the first and those of the second order. There can be no level playing field in the investigation, which is based on the suspicion of money laundering at the level of EUR 1 billion and one possible offence from anyone. You just know that it's not the same and that it's just a reflection of the panic I was talking about at the beginning. Panic is unnecessary and unnecessary because the process we are talking about is going independently of our own, if you want, moments that we are currently experiencing in this National Assembly, but it is certainly interesting that in every way it is trying to divert attention from things that are obviously controversial, which have already been identified in this National Assembly and have also been duly confirmed. Perhaps so that we may not be able to talk about Slovenia at a given time, while again stressing that when all these things have been established, they have already been confirmed, both by my commission, KNOVS, as well as by the investigators led by Dr Logar, who have been handed over to the law enforcement authorities, they already have all these papers. So, by the way, there have been a lot of rumors about how to get some additional papers and similar to Owl, and I checked it out; I hope that the Director of Owl will also be in the closed session to confirm it directly. In fact, no such additional papers, no documents, these findings are the same, are the same and are based on the same papers as we have found. However, these findings are of course of such nature that they are of great concern. They are concerned about the country in which we live, if it happens that someone who has been a key investigator responsible for ending the story is himself, with some mark on a piece of paper, without a report - be careful, without a report - to the prosecution, and wants to hear this man, otherwise in another case, but because of the suspicion of corruption, this investigation would probably open up a lot, and this man will kill himself by falling off a ladder exactly one day or less before that hearing. This is very similar to a scenario from a bad American criminal, but this, ladies and gentlemen, is a reality that we live in Slovenia. For this reason, as I have said, I expect, as President of the Commission for the Monitoring of Security Intelligence Services, as a Member and as a representative of the SDS, that all investigations will be properly investigated. To determine what is true, to determine what can be documented with a sufficient degree of reliability and then to bring these people before the courts before the time of justice. And, of course, I expect from the court that this will not then end in the way that it did in the case of Elan's bank, when the judge wrote so long a justification for the judgment handed down that the whole matter was absolutely outdated. I hope that at least this is our common wish that it is the common wish of all that, if anything has been done unlawfully, it has been said that a crime has been committed, and that it has also been duly reviewed and sanctioned. Ladies and gentlemen, although we appreciate the efforts made in the SDS, we appreciate the conclusions that have been made, but that is because some in the government, the current government, the current current policy, obviously deliberately, are making a commitment, we certainly will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Here you are, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, a representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, after these presentations, it is only right that I respond to a few observations and different thoughts. Above all, I find it sad that some people like to brag about reading something, but I don't know when, maybe at night in bed when they're half asleep. In fact, half the things that the predecessor presented in his position as some of the conclusions that his commission and the previous Logar Commission had come to, if they were to read a little more precisely, could see what the report actually says, rather than dealing with some insinuations. Now I'm gonna be a little more specific. Mr Grims said the following - I will say otherwise, more cautiously - he mentioned the Israelis and Americans in contrast with him, I will not explain what the CIA actually did or was otherwise involved in this case. I have never even convened a press conference to do anything like this, because I have no idea where I am going to explain and disclose certain information that a person cannot really boast about. This is what, of course, does intensely, colleague Grimes. But I have to say this. It is possible already that he went to look at the closed section of the secret facts and went to look at the documents, but does not know that, for the first time in 25 years, the Commission of Inquiry has also used an article of the Rules of Procedure, which allows him, of course, to carry out a direct examination of the documentation on Owl itself. We didn't text each other and come here and mail each other. We've been to Owl twice, and we've also reviewed all the documentation that we had at our disposal, and we haven't even carried it to the National Assembly, and we have therefore data that you won't find in the National Assembly. But I think what would happen if we had this information in the National Assembly and now I understand why the director of course wasn't the most willing to send these documents to the National Assembly, because we would probably be listening to some more things from this advocate today because they're not and don't fit in this open public part. Another thing that seems very important to me. Mr Grims explained how the KNOVS report was adopted and is valid and so on. It forgets something, however, about the suspicion of money laundering for the purposes of proliferation, of course I am using in the case of NLB and NKBM, the only person responsible in the National Assembly is this Commission of Inquiry, not KNOVS. So if this report is adopted today, a number of the issues will fall from this report. What Mr Logar has accepted on his investigative committee is an interim report and cannot reflect the situation that this report will give. Now, of course, there are some insinuations about this, if that Grims very much likes to speak several times in his speeches, first of course this theatre introduction of how Europe wakes up, then mention these ugly ones, you, these leftists, who are actually terrible and what methods they use and then say the next sentence, because we would still agree with the first part of the report, somehow because in fact we figured it all out, he says, but this second part of course is pure manipulation and similar things. Not because of Mr Grimes, because I can repeat the same thing here a hundred times and he will go up and the tape will repeat the same thing indefinitely. That's not what I'm gonna do. But because of the Slovenian public, one thing must be said, which must be very clear. The subject of the investigation at the New Bank of Credit Maribor opened before Mr. Janez Janša signed the loan. So this illusion that this, this commission of inquiry has made a plan, you're wrong. But the fact is that money laundering and Italian typology, for example, came across, which, of course, was spraying into the sky, and you're going to have to first and foremost clear up why something happened. I made it very clear in my introduction to clarifying the report. I don't blame Mr. Janez Janša for any crime. Someone made a joke on Twitter, and he said he wanted to teach me what a crime is and what a crime is, but in both cases it's an illegal matter, it's not in accordance with the law. In addition, sorry, the Italian typology tells us exactly how the political parties were in individual cases, we can look at in Italy, prisoners of this kind of capital in a way that manipulates completely with the same steps, because it was followed in the New Credit Bank of Maribor by individuals who laundered money. And Mrs Djudžić has all the elements that are more or less visible and those that you have taken a look at in the document available in the basement simply cannot be denied. So this theory won't hold. The next thing that seems important to me is, I'm used to it, and I've been expecting personal disqualifications, which I'm now not talking about from procedural procedures forward from the first moment we started today, but I'm simply experiencing. But I have thick skin. I'm just not going to back off because I'm not afraid of these SDS labs, which just in any way try to pay attention and show how they're actually poor and someone's getting at them again. And by a known method, which we have been listening to for many years, they have been wronged. They were predicting a big bang. They created a dimension of their own, so I don't know what's going to happen. We haven't invented this big bang, not on the investigative committee, not in Parliament. Their media is producing it. By the way, there'll be no misunderstanding, no confusion. You know, for two days now, your media has been asking me about my relationship in the Circulations. That's not the case, because these media don't do anything without a prince of darkness. And they ask me who I'm related to, if I'm related to. You won't believe it, even so far they're trying to connect me to Mr. Wolf. I don't know what case. But I expect this welcome on Monday. There's no case of Monday. Because on Monday, when the correction is published, there is nothing I can do, because the correction will only be published on June 4th, but the elections are on June 3rd. It's called perversion, but okay. But I wouldn't come with it, but I can see that this keeps going on. You know, I said one thing. The one chosen by the people as a Member, not in the way you imagine it must be, but in the manner defined by the Constitution and the law, all of us in this Parliament sitting behind this circle have the right to work on committees and commissions and we are recognised that we can do so. I don't know what logic the commission of inquiry can use only some specific criteria to sit down and manage certain people. This seems to me to be a real distinction between first-class, second-class and third-class Members, not to use literally your languages, which you like to use in your performances when you talk about the injustices and pains you experience over and over again. I really have to say that the methods you serve and, I'll say, covering up certain things are actually ridiculous. I'm going to tell you one more thing that seems crucial to me, especially when Mr Grims says that we want to banalize this money laundering and keep saying the same thing over and over again, it's about money laundering. He doesn't say anything else. It is necessary to maintain this stigma, Slovenians and Slovenes, earned, collected money and so on. You know, I've told you a little bit in the beginning, but now I'm going to be very clear because I'm going to quote where the original sin actually was, which is why you can't actually do what some people would actually like, but Mr Grims, of course, warns. I'll give you an explanation of the crime in this case, not the money laundering you call it. “As a criminal offence, the Penal Code is one of the areas of restrictive measures already sanctioned by terrorism.” This is said by Article 108 and Article 109 of the Penal Code 1, “and it is an illicit traffic in weapons”, says Article 370 of the Penal Code, “which represents a particular form of the proposed act. The regulations governing restrictive measures also provide for criminal sanctions, but the legislator must take into account that part of the restrictive measures may be governed by the principle of direct applicability, provided that this is in accordance with the legal nature of the international organisation which lays down them. In addition, infringements of the prescribed restrictive measures for the very dangerous handling of potentially significant consequences, with the possibility to count as a borderline situation the acquisition of a significant asset benefit, as this implies both greater weight, the scope of the act and the greater degree of illegality, if the restrictions are used to achieve disproportionate profits that are expressed in the benefits obtained. It is therefore appropriate to lay down, under those conditions, a specific offence punishable by a prison sentence following the example of other EU Member States, which is also taken into account in the criminal laws of Belgium, Germany, France. Therefore, those responsible for the bank, despite the violation of the embargo, could not have committed a criminal offence, since the law provides for the principle that no one should be prosecuted and punished for a crime that was not criminal at the time of service. But Mr Grimes would like them to be punished and persecuted for something that is not a crime. So, Comrade Gorenak, there you will have to invite your colleague to the lecture. [[advertising from the hall]] Wait, Gorenak, you'll have a chance, nothing bad. Well, what I'm saying is, what's the point of the problem. The essence of the problem is mainly and only in one matter. They were all about money laundering all the time. The previous crime you need if you want to talk about money laundering, it wasn't a level in one case. Instead of doing business, but now be careful, because of the poor organisation and powers that Owl has, of course, they could never have come to this without talking about the police. And it is not true, it is not true, Comrade Grims, that those who are of course, whom I say are suspected of abandoning their duties of conduct and of course that they have mismanaged a premonition procedure that was not a premonition procedure at all, but that information talks have not yet come to light, proceedings are ongoing in the prosecution - and you know this – which the prosecution of course directs and, of course, with the police is doing this. And there are quite a few police officers in this process, not just them, some other. You're the only one who wants to show some theory that isn't. But as for political responsibility, I was very clear in the introduction. We will go in order, and we will also give weight and a difference of responsibility. We are talking about the objective and subjective responsibilities of individuals and some who have only objective responsibilities. Indeed, the Prime Minister is not the one who should in any way be the first to react, certainly not, but is expected of the people who advise him and are even directly in charge of this work to ensure that they alarm and blow up those bodies that, in fact, are informed that they have to do something like this. Surely in this process the first responsible Governor of Banka Slovenije is at the time, certainly. Why? Since we have only one regulator for banks in this country, no one else is a regulator like Banka Slovenije. Then, of course, the two ministers, who were directly responsible from their role, were informed of what was happening on a monthly basis, unlike the Prime Minister. And that's the difference. Therefore, Mr Pahor bears only objective responsibility and not subjective. You're talking about the Home Secretary. Yes, but one difference is very important. In fact, the Chief of Police's Directorate-General is the one who has been informed all the time, and more importantly, in fact, the Minister is not able to intervene in a certain part of the procedure, as is the Minister of Finance, and in fact to carry out certain procedures. [[advertising from the hall]] But it is true that, of course, the Minister of Finance did not do what he really should inform his President, even though he did not know, but whether he was informed or not. Last but not least, I should call the Minister for Foreign Affairs and ask him, but this is a violation of the embargo. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is the one who had a special commission that essentially dealt with violations of the embargo. However, the second Commission at the Ministry of Economy has, of course, addressed the use, dual use of products or undertakings which have concluded contracts or have traded and operated in their field. Why could one commission do this job, the other not? And, of course, this is about these different powers, if we're talking specifically about these things. So much for now. I'll get back to you. I believe there will be questions and other arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u52	Yes, thank you. I would ask, Mr President, if, however, a respected proposaler, the Möderndorfer, can teach that the powers apply, whether he or he likes it now or not, and that, for example, the Minister of the Interior has the right and duty, even to direct the work of the ministry, it is also said to the police, at least in the sense that she can verify what happens to one matter and that this matter cannot and cannot be completed because it cannot be concluded by law, so that there can be no proper report to the prosecution. But what you have said is essential, Mr Möderndorfer, and I have not overheard it, and I would therefore ask you to be reminded by the President, but it is if you are some who are in the current Government, specifically Matthew Vraničar - State Secretary, who is today Minister of Finance, Mag. Goran Klemenčič, who is even the Minister of Justice, is now as if the dog is hunting its own tail, in this investigation, exempt from these conclusions, committed “persil schein” to them and you believe that you have directed them and have also stressed in the introductory part that all that was on their account is unfounded, you are seriously mistaken. This finding and the conclusions that have already been adopted, even if these conclusions that you have proposed are not to be voted on today, will not change in any way. You can make some political assessments, you can try to divert attention, it's your legitimate right, you do that, but you don't change legal facts in any way. That is why I am done with what I am stressing again, and this should be a fundamental guide today. For all these suspicions of irregularities, we expect appropriate investigations by the competent authorities and that if the Penal Code has been breached, if an act is such that people are therefore brought before the letter of the law. However, as regards the elements of money laundering, the President should instruct you that the bank from which the funds came at least from mid-2010 under the international embargo, including the European embargo [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] the commission for Slovenia is bound by the decrees and so that, at least after that, there is still more suspicion of the bride's business, and I claim that there is a reasonable suspicion of money laundering already under the law, but that it should be decided by the competent court, but after the appropriate investigation, after the defendants have been brought to the letter of the law, everything, without exception, but with the same criteria.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. This was a complete abuse of procedure, which, of course, I cannot tell the Member what to say and what not to say and what he knows and does not know. The Member knows that, and so do you. So, it was very, I will say, but at the last session of course, it probably doesn't make sense to raise Members, anyway, I haven't been doing this all the time. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, here's the debate. Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u54	Thank you very much. No, no, there will be a debate. Thank you very much. You've already found out for yourself that it wasn't procedural, but despite that, he said something again that I had already predicted. I can repeat here five times, ten times, but Mr Grimes will repeat his own, but I will repeat it every time he repeats this nonsense. And money laundering is a violation of the embargo. That's two different things. However, it goes to embargoes and these financial flows, cash flows for money laundering elements, which the bank also suspected was going to and when they started reporting and they didn't even know how to get through this money laundering because there was no prior crime. But no one was involved in the embargo. The key problem, and again, holds what some have said before me, Mr Farrokhzadeh, and we all note that he did not come just by chance because the New Ljubljana Bank or the New Ljubljana Bank sign was so cute that he decided to operate in this bank. I'm sure you don't. But he came in very organized, systematic and so forth. The difference is, of course, you want to sell the story, that someone earned fat, and in fact it was a sewerage or the establishment of an Iranian scheme. Your commission didn't find that out. Just as your commission has not found that the “case” has never been closed, your commission has never found out. You want to sell something all the time, but for God's sake, talk about the embargo, give yourself a report to read, it all says in the report what you now find as if you have found something here. Here, of course, you have a problem with how you will argue about the work you have done as an investigative commission, not as a KNOVS, which has completely different powers. In your statements, what falls, what doesn't fall, and I'm not even going to let go because it's not the subject of this discussion at all, and I'm going to try to stick to what we have in the report today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Prepare Dr. Dragan Matić and Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I regret that I somehow expected that in today's session we would all be on the same side - that we would all further contribute to the fact that the villains, those who are guilty, will be politically and otherwise, to the money laundering at the New Ljubljana Bank, where they belong, so to speak. But unfortunately, just at the beginning of the session, there was an intonation that indicated that we would be completely slaughtered. I expected that the debate would be something like this, in the atmosphere of some of our unity, as it was when we discussed the Logar Commission report, unfortunately. Nevertheless, the Commission has tried, at least today we know roughly, even though we do not have an exact answer, who has been looking away at the suspicions of washing Iranian millions, should not. We have no final answer, at least that is my understanding of this report. In Novi Slovenija we have zero tolerance for mistakes and abuses committed by Slovenian politics or from Slovenian politics by delegated officials and management bodies within the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. In Novi Slovenija we have zero tolerance for mistakes and abuses committed by Slovenian politics or from Slovenian policies by delegated officials and management bodies within the borders of the Republic of Slovenia and have foreign policy effects or consistency. In my debate, I will focus mainly on how much damage - and this is huge - has made Slovenia a country in the international space, within the European Union and even wider. How is it possible that in December 2008 this Mr. Iraj Farrokhzadeh, who has Iranian roots, was an embargo against Iran at that time - he was an embargo and here is also one of the basis of my debate - and he opened an account for his company Farrokh, which began to fly millions from Iran. And how can it be that even after they have discovered that these millions were in the Slovenian account for only a few hours, then they have broken the amounts and transferred them to accounts all over the world, from the United States to Japan. And how it is possible that no one has acted, no one has acted, neither the management of the New Ljubljana Bank nor the Bank of Slovenia, nor the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, nor the police or Owl. As I said, I will continue with the embargo that was then established against Iran. Let me mention only two resolutions of the United Nations Security Council, some of which were, say, United Nations Security Council Resolution 1803, adopted in 2008, then United Nations Security Council Resolution 1929, adopted in 2010, and here we have the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Samuel Žbogar, who, as we have heard from the President, also the Special Commission, was, of course, competent to respect restrictive measures or sanctions against Iran. Moreover, we were already members of the European Union and the European Union, in addition to implementing United Nations sanctions in the past decade, introduced a wide range of its own economic and financial sanctions against Iran. And Slovenia obviously, as we read in the report and the media, wanted to be something special here. Well, unfortunately this is not the last practice concerning Slovenian foreign policy. Slovenia wants to be something special, but unfortunately in a negative sense, unfortunately, as it is said wrongly, it wants to be "Spielverderber", and it has often been. And here I underline the special responsibility of the then Minister for Foreign Affairs, of course other political officials, whom the Commission here very clearly lists, the finance minister, the President of the then government, of course the then Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, and so on and so on. No one will convince me that the then Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Žbogar, was not informed that in 2008 the Ambassador of Iran visited the Bank of Slovenia, Mr Križanič from the Social Democrats, who was the finance minister, and the content of the talks was the opening of an account at the State Bank of New Ljubljana. No one will convince me that Mr Žbogar knew nothing about this because he was a member of the government. Everyone knew everything, but it is true that he may have held that the President of the National Assembly, at least in that initial phase, knew nothing about these transactions. And what is it, ladies and gentlemen, today - also because of this money laundering in the New Ljubljana Bank (although years ago) - the credibility of Slovenia? I can argue - and here no one will convince me to think wrong - that the credibility of the Republic of Slovenia, our country, has therefore fallen to the bottom. Because it wasn't just money laundering, but it was financing terrorism back there, and so on, and so on. And if I continue to, see, internal control in the New Ljubljana Bank as early as March 2009, March 2009 detects transactions by the Iranian Commissioner requiring attention and clarifications, so the bank invites the Commissioner to submit documentation on the background of the transactions. Next, one year later, March 2010, and here is this international dimension of this shameful affair, for Slovenia, in March 2010, the French Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Office is examining the transactions Farrokhzadeh bought by the company in France, watch out for dual-purpose products that can be used for peaceful purposes, but also for nuclear technology. The then Head of the Anti-Money Laundering and Financing Office in our country, Mr Andrej Plaussteiner, is deceiving the French with transaction data. So, this embarrassing information, these facts just keep coming together and going on. It pains me that today we are known around the world, by citizens and citizens of Slovenia, that money laundering is possible for us, because if it was possible once and this billion, then it is probably possible more than once. When are we gonna get our credibility back? What do we have to do? You can't do that, ladies and gentlemen, overnight. And, as far as I know, after the Commission's report, Mr Samuel Žbogar didn't even come to the hearing. Maybe I'm wrong. I just read it somewhere. He's not here. So he avoided the hearing. This tells us all about this gentleman and his political responsibility. But as it is said, some of these practices continue, including that, in fact, Slovenia, I am in the current mandate, which expires, that Slovenia has, in fact, often avoided some of its commitments, such as those made in accession, in Slovenia's accession to the European Union, that I am not talking about the NATO Union. Today, no one is interested in the data of the European Commission, which gave Slovenia real warnings and actually gave Slovenia budgetary and reform advice yesterday, but this has been giving it for quite some time. That's advice. Why? Because, in fact, we are part of the European Union, and we are also in some way, and the European Commission is also ours, but it seems that some also do not understand it there in Gregorčič. For quite some time, the European Commission has been warning us and repeating its call for adequate fiscal action and for further reforms in the areas of health, long-term care and the pension system. The more we postpone these matters and definitely delay them until today, the more difficult and painful the measures that this society will unfortunately have to take once. They may be true, I'm sure, in the short term, painful, but they'll be good in the long run. And we just don't have these discussions. I doubt that in this regard, the Government has now debated something in departure, made some concrete decisions and all of this shows, in fact, ladies and gentlemen, our non-creditability within the European Union and in the wider international community. And this is our task, or rather, the task of the next composition of the National Assembly to fix it. These errors, which have occurred only in relation to this money laundering affair in the New Ljubljana Bank, will certainly not be resolved overnight, and these consequences will not be resolved overnight, so there will be a need for consistent action. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Dr. Dragan Matić has the floor to prepare Dr. Vinko Gorenak and Mr. Matjaž Han. Here you go, Dr. Matic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, chairman. A nice greeting to all the few colleagues in the hall! The crime, the abuse of financial institutions, as far as Farrokh is concerned, is very in itself. The same is true if the crime is abused and for evil purposes used to deal with a political opponent. The Commission's report by Jani Möderndorfe shows that SDS used the Farrokh affair to discredit current Justice Minister Goran Klemenčič. This happened in autumn 2017, when the SDS, in an interview with Minister Klemenčič, made a statement that Klemenčič, as president of the KPK in 2011, did not act properly and that he was guilty because the police investigation in the Farrokh case was unsuccessful. It was the first interpolation in the previous parliamentary practice in which the Minister's testimony from his previous life was made against him. So, from the alleged actions that he was supposed to do years before he took office as minister in some entirely different position. This move is bizarre on its own. And even more bizarre is the way the eyewitnesses were fabricated. These findings were drawn from a special report from the investigation conducted by Mr Branko Grims as President of the KNOVS in the Farrokh case for the purposes of interpretation. The facts learned from the report of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, which we are considering today, show that Mr Branko Grims has abused and misled the National Assembly. In particular, he was not competent at all for the investigation, to which the competent services kept reminding him. Secondly, the abuse was the role of the President by misinterpreting the results of the KNOVS investigation and the interpretation was in his complete domain. He interpreted them by then writing a political indictment against Minister Klemenčič on the basis of these interpretations. Klemenčič as President of the KPK, following interpretations by Branko Grims, was not supposed to give the police key documents in the Farrokh case. And that's why the police were supposed to fail to complete the investigation. Grimes, as it was said, attributed this responsibility to Klemenczyk. But the truth is completely different. The report that we are considering today reveals that the Ministry of the Interior has carried out internal police supervision in the Farrokh case and the results of this surveillance have been so problematic that this case has been waived to the Special Investigation and Prosecution Department of officials with special powers in the specialised state prosecutor's office. It turned out that the document in the Farrokh case was received by KPK by the head of the Investigation Unit of the National Investigation Office Robert Slodej. This is clearly confirmed by Robert Slodey. He therefore confirmed that he had received the document from the KPK. And the police don't have this document and they don't know where it is today. In this way, there is a suspicion of a criminal service in the transaction of official documentation. This crime has taken place within the police and is now being dealt with by a specialised state prosecutor. And the fact that the matter is also problematic is that the police had more information and documents on the Farrokh case, which they had received months earlier from Sova and the Anti-Money Laundering Office and did not take action. In this regard, however, the role of the current KPK President, Mr Boris Štefanec, who is very well understood and enjoys their support and protection with the SDS is very interesting. Otherwise, Mr Štefanec confirmed that the KPK archive contained documents from 2011 showing that the KPK had requested a document or information from the National Bureau of Investigation and the Bureau of Prevention of Money in relation to the Farrokh case and that they had arrived. However, Mr Štefanec, at the request of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly, cannot and cannot answer him when he asks where is the copy of the disputed document that came to the police but mysteriously disappeared and is not found at the KPK. Mr Štefanec also does not allow the former Head of the Investigation and Control Service at KPK, Daret Staret, to seek this document himself in the KPK archive, despite the decision of the information officer that Mr Stare is entitled to do so. Mr Štefanec has not been able to adequately explain to the President of the National Assembly the reasons why KPK has not been able to find this documentation in its archives since July or to seek and search around 700 documents or maps where these documents could be located. As Mr Štefanec likes to publicly challenge his problems with the fungi, we might ask whether this time some of the fungi of the yellow-blue colour where they have filled him and Mr Stefanec are hampering him to find answers to the inquiries that come from the temple of democracy and therefore rather show disrespect for the National Assembly, when, despite the inquiry by the investigative commission, he asks him where the hell does he have the copy of the document that the Head of the NPU Slodej adopted, someone in the Police has lost, but no, he does not even try to find the latter, even though it should be in the archive of the KPK. All this is happening so that all of this remains wrapped in a veil of mystery and continues to burden former Mr Štefanec with such an unloving KPK President of the current Minister Klemenčič. In his awareness of his good professional and legal subordination, Mr Štefanec overlooked the fact that the Commission of Inquiry had the same powers as the judicial authorities and could also require the seizure of documentation, but, in my opinion, she rightly decided not to deal with Mr Štefanec because it would be a pure waste of the precious time she had at her disposal. Therefore, information on the missing document, as presented, was sought and obtained elsewhere. However, it is worth remembering Mr Štefanec's behaviour when it comes to assessing the performance of the Chair of the KPK. Whatever. Like the SDS falsified or modified archival records years ago, in order to accuse the then President of the State of Danil Türk, the Commission’s investigation into intelligence and security services has now drawn up the results of the Farrokh case. In the case of Dr. Türk, the archival material has been adapted, and now, in the case of Farrokh, it has somehow disappeared or is not found, not at the police, not at the National Investigation Office, not at the Anti-Corruption Commission. The mystery of not saying a miraculous disappearance, an archival material that changes or disappears, is a very recognizable scenario. And all of this for the purpose of destroying a good name, in this case Goran Klemenčič, who discovered years ago that Janez Janša was unable to explain the origin of his assets, earned a “vendeto” by the SDS. This one will probably follow him wherever he walks and whatever he does for the rest of his days. Finally, let me read a significant conclusion from the report that we are considering today: "The Commission of Inquiry fully rejects the findings of the KNOVS regarding the functioning of the KPK in the Farrokh case, even though they were also accepted by the National Assembly. In this regard, the Commission of Inquiry underlines the political responsibility of the Magi. Branka Grims believes that his unethical conduct has distorted public confidence in the integrity of the KNOVS and the National Assembly and, last but not least, the function of a Member, because he did not comply with the values, principles of parliamentary democracy. Therefore, the Commission of Inquiry estimates that the Mag. Branko Grims is not fit to continue to serve as President of the KNOVS.” It is more than obvious that Mr Grims has done his job superficially and poorly, or with a specific purpose. We can conclude, therefore, that during its work, the Commission of Inquiry has come to interesting conclusions, not only on the responsibility of officials in the Farrokh case, but it has demonstrated how KNOVS President Branko Grims works, while at the same time further clarifying how KPK President Boris Štefanec is doing his job and how he feels about the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u59	Thank you very much. / advertising from the hall/ Procedural? I just hope there's no abuse, please. Here you go, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u60	Respectable. Once again, of course, the majority in the National Assembly may also vote that the sky is green and grass blue, but this does not change the facts in any way. Such a conclusion as you suggest is, of course, pure [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u61	Mr Grims [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u62	abuse of the Rules of Procedure [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u63	Of course it's not. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u64	You know it. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u65	Procedural [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u66	You know that. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u67	Procedural proposal [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u68	And [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u69	Please, if you make a procedural proposal and then explain, well, if it has to be this way. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u70	Mr. Chairman. I will give you a proposal to examine which of these decisions are in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the rules of law and may be voted on. For what this commission does is pure abuse, and for the one who gives forgiveness, these are those who are now members of the government, and also include as examiners in their conclusions the people who are in the National Assembly. It is said that the Commission has dramatically exceeded the legal rules of the game, its powers and the ethics and morals to which everyone likes to refer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u71	It was a debate. The Commission has simply proposed what it has proposed, and we will finally vote on the conclusions. Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Prepare Mr Matjaž Han and Mr Ivan Škodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u72	Thank you very much. In the beginning, let me return with two sentences to what I said earlier in the procedural proposal to the President of the National Assembly. See - this goes to the minutes and I hope that the President will read this, or the public must know - what the word “invoke” used by Member Trček means. This means, according to the dictionary, a group of worthless or worthless people, that means members of socially lower social strata, uneducated and so on, according to the dictionary. Now, see if that hate speech is possible, I think it's a crime. I'll think about it, Mr. Ducky, and I'll put you on the spot, think about it, first study it, and maybe it will happen. And the president of the National Assembly didn't react. So much for that. As for the previous speaker, the following: congratulations for current reading, and of course criticism for lying. You've lied multiple times, and now I'm only going to tell two cases of your lies. You were talking about Klemenčič and that remarkable report of 8 January 2008, the wealth situation of the presidents of the parties, but you didn't say that the court dismissed him and that he was gone, did you, and you forgot to say that. This report is no longer due to the fact that the court dismissed it and the political attack of a state official, an official of the then government and its president, was malicious. The SDS did not falsify documents, sir, as it were, Matić. See, it was about - that people would understand, because you understand, but you abuse and lie - it was about getting photocopies with the official permission of the Slovenian Archives, for example, from one to fifteen, and the photographs from one to fifteen were not stacked one, two, three, four, five to fifteen, but they were folded one, two, five, those two missing to seven were at the end of the day. And this is for you falsifying documents. That's a lie, you're lying! Let's move on. You wanted to justify the business between Klemenčičeva KPK or Staret and the police. The regulation on business, office business and business between the authorities is quite clear - Mr Stare has nothing to inform Mr Slode, but it is the KPK that has to inform the police and not Slode that we are clear. In addition, you have forgotten or maliciously omitted the information that Mr Slodej also said in public that he had received from Mr Staret some information on alleged money laundering, but there was no data on which bank it was, nor was it information whether it was one euro or one billion. So, the obvious error on the KPK and Mr Klemenčič's side, because he should have had the information he had, but with everyone, not only by deleting the bank and the amount, but with all the information he had to familiarize the police and not one police officer, because the police are not aware of it then. So much for that. Now, in the debate I have prepared, I would have touched on Mr Möderndorfer's performance in the media when he presented this report and then reporting to the media, because this is typical of Slovenian political-media space - on the one hand, pure abuse by Mr Möderndorfer, or misrepresentation of facts with incorrect emphasis and then reporting, malicious reporting of media, which is, of course, the result of the date of convergence of media with the governing structure. You were talking about a loan to the SDS. Yes, Mr. Möderndorfer. We were one day after that, so the loan that was rented was, in your opinion, so you showed, rented so roughly if you made such a film after it, as if someone had gone with suitcases, black pegs, and smurf over the head into Prijedor, there loaded the money into the suitcases and transferred it illegally across the border. That's what it looked like in your apparitions. However, it was an official loan rented, officially registered contract registered at the Apples and subject to the supervision of the Court of Auditors. As the law was relatively unknown, relatively poorly written and it was not clear whether it was a one-month loan or a one-year loan, the Court of Auditors concluded that it was a one-year loan. And that's why at that point, Mr Möderndorfer, at that point, but we returned the loan, paid interest and apologized. What is this SDS act? This act of SDS is a violation, I repeat, a violation. Same as if you're driving across the red light. That's what the police are responsible for, and you get a fine. The same is true in this case, it is a suspicion of a misdemeanour for which the Court of Auditors pronounced a fine. Let me inform you that by now, it's been about six months. The Court of Auditors has not passed any fines, so we believe that the Court of Auditors has assessed our explanations as appropriate and does not intend to impose a fine, let alone a reminder. So it's a socially less dangerous phenomenon, a less dangerous phenomenon called a crime. I invited you to class, and I really hope you'll come. Now look, because you said it correctly, you didn't abuse things here, but you inspired, SDS, SDS, SDS, SDS, because that's what you have to do because you're counting on you to get into a fichot, which I don't know anymore. [[Incomprehensible]] Look, now we're reporting to the media. And the media is charging something with this, and what you said, the media is charging, yes, the specialized state attorney's office has already completed the investigation, the police have already completed the investigation. Against whom? What does my old mother think? I'm against SDS, aren't I? That's not true. Neither the police nor the prosecution are involved in the case of a given loan with the SDS, because the police and the prosecution, especially the prosecution and the police, are investigating the crimes, but this is a suspicion of a misdemeanour. So they're not working with SDS. But what they do with the named lady and her origin of money and her business in a bank, which may be a criminal offence, I do not know, but it is a completely separate matter from the Slovenian Democratic Party, which, with its operations, its possible crimes of money laundering or anything like that, has nothing. You see, that's how total deception happens to the public, and that's a big problem. I didn't tell you, Mr Möderndorfer, that you were deceiving the public because you said things relatively correctly, but you got it right, and you made a mess of it so that the media put something on it and then the elephant came out. Although you sold the fly to the media, they made an elephant out of it, but in this case we know that we are in pre-election time and that you and the media want to influence public opinion. And that's all it is. So I repeat. It's a crime, a suspicion of a crime that has not been committed. There Kamal Izidor Shaker, or whatever, on Twitter honks that we were ingrained, or spreading "fake news", as it is called. That's not true. Once again, the Court of Auditors has not issued a warning to the SDS until today, let alone fines. Apparently, they were satisfied with our explanations. And he's not dragging us into the NPU and he's not dragging us into the U.S. Attorney General's Office because we have nothing to do with this. They are investigating the possible crimes of this lady, the source of money, her business in Slovenia, and so on, has nothing to do with us. You know that. And if you were extremely honest, that's what you'd say. But this is how you loaded up a little bit, and the media added, and we have an elephant coming here and there in pre-election time, and it says what it says. In short, this kind of doing doesn't seem right to me, and it seems to me that we should do much, much more right in this part. I mean, I'm not reading to you, you sold the fly, but they made the elephant, that's true, but you shouldn't sell the fly. Well, at least you didn't lie, just like the grave Matic is in front of you. Of course that's it. So the situation in this area is relatively clear. We have nothing to do with these investigations because we can't have anything. That's what I justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Procedural Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u74	Yes, thank you for your word. In procedural terms, I would just like to point out what a person with a doctorate knows if you read from the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language, that words have more meaning. Secondly, Mr President, I would like to remind you that you do not apply the Rules of Procedure only to Franco Trčko or Miho Kordiš if he is present. I've been listening very carefully, Comrade Vinko. The Head of the NSI Group has designated all those who sat in the governments, including yours, as criminals, but have not gone mad. Jani used to say that you were in SDS like a lab, like a lab mouse, and you weren't crazy. Why is he always freaking out about the vis-a-vis Levi? Because it comes from these investigators, including TES, that we “party breaker” of these old groups, which, as the people say, have robbed Slovenia in 27 years. And now, President, my procedural proposal is, of course, that you apply the Rules of Procedure at least at the last meeting to everyone, not just to two Members. I will add this: with pleasure, Comrade Vinko, you can trigger what you are about to trigger, I will probably have to push this to the European Court of Human Rights, where they will find out as in the case of Father Cheferin and they will say: "What you said was not appropriate was not wise, but..." and then follow up. But I don't know if if you're going to retire, you want to interrupt your ride home for that sort of thing. If you do, let's do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Replica, Dr. Dragan Matić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u76	Yes, thank you for your word. Well, unlike a lot of people, I'm not going to abuse procedurally, but I'm using the rules of procedure to reply to Ambassador Gorenak. Now, Ambassador Gorenak, you remind me of some defense that is angry at someone in the square and then resents him for lying. I didn't understand exactly where I was going to lie from your performance, but I did understand that in a lot of things I said, you disagree with me. Yeah, yeah. As far as the archive affair with Daniel Türk is concerned, see, Mr Gorenak, you may be teaching young people in Tacno if they leave it to you, but you will not teach me about archiving. For 27 years I have been in archiving, twice I was the director of the Archive of the Republic of Slovenia, once the director of the History Archive of Ljubljana, and you were embarrassed in 2011 when you forged the archive material. The professional services of the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia have shown from which various boxes you took documents and taped them together. It's a shame for such a traditional democratic party, a party that calls itself democratic. So as far as archival material and archival affairs are concerned, it would be best for us to keep quiet. I will not discuss the rest at all, because yours has debated in the same way as the fear that's inside the hotel and there's nothing about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor to prepare the mags. Andrej Shircelj and Mr Sasa Tabaković. Here you go, Mr. Badass.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u79	Excuse me, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Vice President. Now, in his performance, Mr Gorenak has been embroiled with me and, of course, has made some presentation about how he sees these things or has also tried to argue in some way. I'll take my turn. Look, now as far as Klemenčič is concerned, and above all as regards Mr Slode, and all the time this debate about this document was the first, it was not the first and in what way. We have, of course, interviewed all the witnesses and actors who participated in this event, and the fact is that this event took place. The fact is, this document on the KPK is. The fact is that the President of the KPK has not opened up to date and has given those who once worked with these documents so that the part of course where they were working could, of course, even look for documents, but he has done nothing to actually find these documents, and to this day, despite his two days ago, he has informed the National Assembly and hung them on the website to report to the Commission, and that he has said yes to one sheet of paper that he has nothing. And that's all he said. And now the point. Sir, who brought Mr Slode a document or paper, I will say very simply that people will understand, ask him and say: “You listen, I have this. Is this something?" And Mr. Slodey answered him and said, "Listen, but it's already being dealt with by criminals, so I don't know, I've heard it before." Why did he take Mr. Slode? Because he was convinced that the NPU was involved or that the NPU should be involved. He didn't know who he was really dealing with. At the time the police were already dealing with this case, I am talking about Farrokhzads, and in fact they handed over to criminals, not NPUs, the NPUs were still in bandages at the time, and this was their police argument, not mine, that they didn't give NPUs to do this, because it was actually just being established, it was only in bandages, and they actually thought that maybe they weren't the most competent ones, even though we all know that NPU was set up for cream work cream cases to deal with. Here. And that's why he gave the NPU, of course. And where does the problem come from? Do you know where the problem is? because the criminals of this document, although they know that they have received it from Slodo and also Slodey knows and acknowledges as a witness on the committee that this document has indeed submitted, that no one has even known it, yet they have not made the official mark, and there, of course, all traces are lost and the matter ends as if it never happened. And that's the key problem. But the other thing that needs to be commented on is this. We are talking about Mrs Djudžić, or a loan that was problematic by honourable Member Gorenak. What you're saying is that there's no procedure on the loan, so it's a predictive procedure to run anything. At the time when you, I know, I also read very carefully all the Members' questions that we are asking, to the various ministers, I have also observed your question, and I know what you asked then, or what our purpose was, to determine whether an investigation is ongoing or not, etc. We, the commission of inquiry asked, but of course the prosecution directly, because we also wanted to look into the file what was going on and we got a very clear answer that as long as the investigation was ongoing, they would not give us the file, for the sake of protecting the investigation. But not Djudzic's, my question was loans from Djudzic's SDS party. And that's what the D.A. was answering to. So we cannot now speak and state, of course, that nothing is flowing with respect to the loan. And I believe this case will get an epilogue because it has to get it. Not because I'd like to or don't like SDS or because they're telling me to get stains when I see Janez Janša, far away from it, but because tomorrow it can happen to any other political party, and because they have to set some standards. The law says Mr Gorenak is for nothing about political parties. I'm sorry, we've dealt with this law twice in the previous term. You said, a magnetogram, read it. 2013 and 2014 discussed this law. The SDS was always there because all the leaders of the parliamentary groups were there when we discussed this Law on Political Parties. True, for the first time or for the second time, they did not agree to a change of law, but they also said why they did not agree. Because they wanted to have higher cash amounts and because they wanted the property so there wouldn't be too much punishment. And then there's this kind of paradox that we don't even write down at the end of the sentence. And if anything, it is necessary to say very clearly and limit and make a virtually very big difference when and how, when it comes to a political party, it hires a loan. If it were up to me, I'm sure the political party can't rent a loan just somewhere where it doesn't even know where the money comes from and where it went back, especially when the client changes his mind and returns the money. And thank God she brought him back, because she'd only be involved in greater incompetence, will or will, I don't know, today I don't even judge it because it's irrelevant. There's something else that matters. Do we have levers of control over political parties so that this can be established? Mr. Gorenak says they posted on the iPad. That's true, but the Court of Auditors doesn't look at Ipes. The Apples Court of Auditors is looking, do you know when? When he makes an annual review for political parties, but not when he works, he reviews the electoral campaign report where the parties have to report. You know why? Because when she received this loan from SDS, she didn't put it on an electoral account, she put it on her own account. Then, by law, when the elections begin, the funds must be transferred to the electoral account. And the Court of Auditors only sees the electoral bill. The basic account is viewed by the party when the work is being audited by the entire party, but this is already after the elections, that is all the passports. Why is the loan still important? Because the loan must also not be returned for more than 1 year when it comes to elections. We are not talking about a simple loan that can be borrowed at any time if it has a guaranteed or secured loan. And that's also the essential difference. And we are still being tortured and we must be concerned not only by the commission of inquiry, but also by us as Members of the National Assembly, we must be concerned about the origin of this money. We can't say, Oops, I didn't know. Why are we going to the bank for a loan? Yeah, because we're sure there's legal money because it's got regulators over it and more. Of course there are mistakes, but the bank will be examined much earlier than 10 who slip their hands to the right, right hands, eh, hands to the right, because it is, in short, irrelevant. The point is somewhere else. We need to simply make and get political parties into a high, transparent way of doing business in order for people to have confidence in it. How should political parties run this country if they are exposed to criminal associations themselves? Yes or no? I told you just in case what that actually means. This actually means hypothetically, if the customer actually managed to draw on this credit, it could ultimately be dependent on the Italian typology and the way that Mrs Djudzic used it, which is completely eloquently comparable to all of these Italian mafias, which in fact was also laundering money in our banks. And that's why today you talk, Oops, I didn't know, don't joke. A little while ago, you were able to tell me who could run an investigative committee. You have an economist doctor, but you can't rent a loan and check it out, but the law is good or not. This is simply a bad excuse because I know you know the law and that you know how to rent a loan, but a few answers are unanswered. And I don't know why it's afraid to say tell the account where you rented this loan. Tell the Slovenian public. Tell me which account you've credited this loan to. Tell the Slovenian public. You'll be washed in that moment of everything, and the thing is done. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u82	Very briefly. Mr. Möderndorfer, I don't know what the prosecution has reported to you. I don't know this document. But the D.A. isn't dealing with crimes and suspicions. So he can't deal with us. This is the end of the story. As far as this last sentence is concerned, say it, say it. We've told everything to the one who's controlling us. This is the Court of Auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Škodnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, welcome. When I examined this report these days, I must say, I was very surprised. My hair was creeping, I felt a thing, a reaction to my skin, especially because I had some similar things in my life before 1989, after I was employed in the economy, I will tell you about it later. I very much welcome this matter that he has drawn up and decided on this Jani committee. Because you must be a hero. Because you didn't just shudder at the nest, but you flew straight into the mob's throat. It's not that simple. I am pleased, however, that today I would be surprised at the beginning when I listened to the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups, from Desus, D, then to the Left, that they somehow support this and that it is right to clear up. Also by the SDS, colleague Gorenak said that Jani is actually telling the truth in this report. I don't know, maybe he had to get so high, but he did tell the truth. That's very good. This means that this report has some content and some weight. But it takes courage. It just doesn't work that way. But the fact is, on the basis of the audience listening, I hope that there are as many of them as possible in front of television broadcasters, because some political parties are likely to lose quite a few voters if they listen to this today. These same groups will be able to rule our society in the next term. I hope people are aware of that. I'm a little scared sometimes. I've never heard of this before because in the National Assembly, but the fact that fear is present, at least in some. It is therefore so important that law enforcement and prosecution bodies are included in these proceedings. This has to get to the epilogue, because otherwise we didn't do anything. It's the only way to the rule of law. I don't know when this will come, but this must continue in the next call of the National Assembly, who will be present. I'm hoping all of you will support this to be cleared up. I am pleased that we have this courage in the Modern Centre Party today to address this final report, which this time sees no blame on virtually all political parties and bank management, as was the case with the Logar Commission. The guilt is subjective in nature, but I don't know the collective guilt. In the case of today's report, however, we are talking about very specific perpetrators and very specific crimes. Of course, I would mention some of the facts I've seen in the report. With regard to the role of British cleaning cooperation, it should be noted that the New Bank of Credit is Maribor d.d. It was against the former administration, led by Mr Kovacic and some former employees, that they brought such damages, as well as more than 20 criminal charges. With regard to the above, it is worth noting that there is no Jadran invest d.o.o. project during the alleged transactions where the purchase of 57,812 square metres of large land and 30 parking places in Zadar took place. The Bank sold all its claims together with its respective rights to the debtor of Jadran Invest, d.o.o., Nikola Tesla 12b, 23000 Zadar, amounting to EUR 8 million 529 thousand 459. The claims are secured by mortgage on real estates, land totalling 57 thousand 812 square metres and 30 parking places in Zadar. It is also worth mentioning that this sale of claims in the bank's inherited real estate projects is also intended to tighten relations in the bank, as it is possible to buy inherited projects for a small amount of change. In this regard, it is worth adding that Jadran Investa’s claims were sought by an Australian citizen who did not deliver a certificate of origin because he was supposed to win money in gambling. Of course, I'd like to ask if you know anything about this here on your left. I mentioned earlier that I will give another practical example, which is very similar when I read this report, of course, much more. In 1989, I worked at the Factory of Standards. I was six months old at the time. the director and the other day the referee will bring me an account to sign, and I said, "I'll take a look at it," he said, "okay, and I'll call you when you sign." I find that this value - if I were to convert it, then the dinars - was about half a million euros, it was the purchase of some new entrepreneur's equipment, which I didn't know so much, but was known in the Factory of Criteria at that time under the name of Kerin, which is nothing secret. Of course, we didn't have any money at the time, we didn't even have money to pay, we even had to rent loans and so on for wages. That was about when I turned it into 320 workers, almost two months for wages. Of course I didn't sign it. Then this referee took it back. The next Monday we had a college, and I was expecting someone to ask. Not one week later, no one said anything, and again in one week nothing, and after the third week of college under various but I ask the Director-General, "Yes, I got an invoice, and I didn't sign what happened to her." Then a minute of silence arose, and later the director, however, said that the account had been paid and that the accountant had carried it out or directed it. This proves that we did not have the right legislation at the time, so that someone can order some money if someone responsible disagrees. And these things need to be arranged immediately so that something like this will never happen again. However, I must mention that this Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already drafted a new Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism in June 2016, replacing the 2008 Act. This law was adopted in October 2016 in the National Assembly and so far eight acts under the law have been adopted for the implementation of this law. On the basis of the provisions of this Act, a register of real owners has also been established. Notwithstanding the above, the effectiveness of all authorities responsible for combating money laundering and terrorist financing, both at national level and at the level of international cooperation, will need to be improved in terms of improved flow of financial and other intelligence between detection and prosecution authorities and controls. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj. Prepare Mr Saša Tabaković and Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the time of the review of the report, I would like to stop on some or at least one substantive matter. Before moving on to this substantive issue, however, he certainly explained something about the opening speech of the applicant, Mr Möderndorfer. It mentioned, inter alia, the Commission for the supervision of public finances in terms of whether the then Director of the New Bank of Maribor had cooperated with their committee and so on. Now, I am speaking, of course, as a colleague of Horvat, about the intensification of this speech and about when Mr Hauc came to the KNJF (Commission on Public Finance Control), which I am leading, as I understand, and he did not come to this committee. But you know, this has nothing to do with Andrej Shirtzl where Mr. Hauc is going. I just invite him to a board meeting and he comes if he doesn't come, but he apologizes, but I think your commission might even have a chance to bring him in. He just came here. I even think that this meeting was convened on the basis of a request, so that there is no need to link and see some links that are not actually there. However, I hope that what has been said at this session of the Commission for the supervision of public finances has come to you well. So, in this regard, with this introductory explanation of Mr Möderndorfer, of course, I must say that perhaps a little too self-sufficient, when all the other commissions have not done as much as this Commission, and everyone else here in the National Assembly, including the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, is more secondary. That's actually the impression we get at this intonation. Of course, this is a problem. Now, if I speak of the content itself, I will, of course, talk about what is actually missing here and what Mr Möderndorfer said in the opening explanation itself, about that, I quote: “There is no Slovenian scheme, but we have Iranian.” This is missing, the Slovenian scheme. And if we look at this text, the Iranian side did not come to Slovenia in the previous century, in the 1970s for the first time and then even later, and so on, but it was accepted here by certain people. All the time, even now, in these recent periods. And this Slovenian scheme is important. This Slovenian scheme is of course important in order to make the work of this Commission effective in this direction so that something will actually happen. Again (quote): “There is no Slovenian scheme.” These are the words of Mr Möderndorfer in the introduction. Look, it's kind of an empty scheme, if we're talking about, on the one hand, very much summed up in this report, what Dr. Logar's investigative committee has already found. So from this point of view and above all from this point of view that today, it seems, we live in Slovenia, where criminal companies are in state banks, they were still simply laundering money. Not only did they launder money, but they also violated the embargo adopted by the United Nations. And this is Slovenia, I'm sorry. Here I know that this commission cannot prevent this, but this commission can actually lay the groundwork to prevent this. And this scheme is actually missing here. It can be anything else, I don't mind that the other one is still there, but this scheme is very well written for the Iranian side, but it is not a Slovenian scheme. Look, why not? I'm not going to speculate if there's anything in the background, and so on. After all, some of the names of the bankers who created these schemes in the State Bank, the New Ljubljana Bank, who were then heads of these sectors, departments, and so on, actually exist. So from this point of view, I think that, of course, further examination of this scheme should also be added, not only what was actually proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u88	Dear colleague of Shirtzelj. Yeah, maybe you misunderstood me or you didn't hear me in one part very clearly say, we, the commission was, if she wanted to find out that it was an Iranian scheme, she had to look at the whole picture of the previous action, what you've already repeated, which was happening, which means that we saw that these samples on international activities exist and worked. Then we went to look at the Slovenian space, and therefore we are talking about the Iranian scheme, not the Slovenian scheme. Actors, what's bothering you, and we, of course, are very clear about how the network worked, we have detected Iranian actors, and not least some other foreigners from other countries. But not Slovenian actors. However, these, and this is the task of law enforcement authorities and of course, we have also mentioned the reasons why they could not actually come to this. For the first time - because of the fact that the hand on the heart, no one has taken it seriously, secondly - because in fact, the agency, Owl, since it was reorganized, has in fact been in some way crippled and can't even do certain tasks that in this case, specifically, she should do, that's what we say, that she needs to be upgraded with a counter-intelligence service that is not available today, and in the final phase, as soon as she comes across the Slovenian in any story, she has to raise her hands or say, the microphones go off, the phones go off and it's all over, and the message goes to the police. Then it depends on the police, but the police did not even work on the Iranian scheme, they were involved in money laundering, but it was clear that they had not found the previous crime and therefore the “case” never developed. These two problems, I'm telling you why things were failing. However, I fully agree with you, this should continue and this should be investigated, but not by the State Assembly Commission anymore. This must be done by the police, along with the prosecution, together with the agencies, all of them, they are the ones who must protect Slovenian interests, both in the field of the economy, in the field of finance, and not least with all the signed international treaties or adopted and transferred measures that we actually have in the field of the embargo. For the last time, it's our reputation. Yes, but in this part, I agree with you completely.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Shircel, the replica. Mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u90	Look, thank you very much. This report is not balanced. On the one hand, this commission of inquiry is investigating Iran's scheme, not Slovenia's. And, of course, that implies. See, perhaps the relevant authorities in Slovenia should review Iran as well as Slovenia. But here they have some basis for Iranian, unfortunately they don't have Slovenian, or it's a much smaller basis than Iranian. You see, it's missing.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Applicant, please Master, so, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u92	Thank you, Vice President. Of course, we must not forget that the Commission of Inquiry has not only done this, but on the other hand, we have had an Italian typology, which has become so well known and so widespread that others have started to use it. The Italian word is only because it came from the Italian end and was the most developed and developed there. In fact, they're using it not only from other countries of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which we've already talked about today, not saying my name again, because you're going to tell me that it's unpopular, but that I'm going to label someone. But the Slovenians have done it, too, but you know, and yes, yes, in the report, we make it very clear. [[…]] But it is a fact that, of course, these are things, because we have also sought political responsibility, because this is the primary task of the commission of inquiry, but we cannot close our eyes and say that we have not seen it, and this is not the work of this commission. We can't do that. Remember Mr. Logar what he said. We're investigating a bank hole, but we ran into money laundering, what can I say now, I don't see money laundering, and the only thing he did when he actually started to figure out what it was. He had only one problem why he did not later find out, suggested extending the subject of the investigation, as I did when we ran into Italian typology, I first came to the National Assembly for permission or that the National Assembly approved me to extend the subject matter of the investigation, otherwise I would never have been at the NKBM, but would have stayed at the NLB. But I can't pretend I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor. Prepare Mr Jan Mahnic and Mr Matjaž Germany. Here you go, Mr. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u94	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Yes, if we already thought that the National Assembly, with its final report on the so-called infamous TES 6, had revealed a number of infrequentities, which have also led to police allegations of the suspected crimes of prominent or highest national politicians, Mr Pahor, Mr Križanič and Mr Lahovnik, for the infrequentities that have occurred with this investment in the past, which citizens and citizens are still paying for today and will probably pay for a very frequent renovation, regardless of the guarantees, for quite some time now, so if we thought that this so-called deep state would somehow end, we would have been seriously wronged. There's a crime novel in front of us again today. I can't tell you anything else. The political occupation of roles is similar, one actor is even the same, only the story is slightly different and in fact even more incredible because it actually has a broader international dimension. Today's report on the proliferation in the NLB speaks of the fact that it has indeed been proven, that is, by financial operations at the time of the government of Borut Pahor, the embargo on Iran has been broken down and that the report identifies the political responsibility both of him and of the other individuals who are, perhaps intentionally, will be decided by the law enforcement authorities, allowing passivity to happen to these events. The report also substantiates the fact that the proliferation even had all the signs of money laundering and that the service, including intelligence, was burning all the red alarms, that irregularities were occurring within our largest bank and those responsible, as has already been seen and known, did nothing and should take action under the applicable legislation. And one wonders, of course, how this is possible and when these stories will really end. In the familiar facts not only of this report, including all previous ones, I can in fact only appeal disappointedly that if we want to stop talking about a deep country, that law enforcement authorities will have to do their best to control themselves, and that they will have to do far and deep not in fact the state, but to watch out for the political parties who typically appoint themselves as tabulated, but in all these great investigative stories that we have witnessed to them in this mandate, I can say, somehow always fingers together, always. And I believe that if this establishment in Slovenia is never going to happen, we will never, in fact, be able to restore some basic trust to people in the democratic system or our country, because for the country that comes out of this report as well as from the previous, citizens and citizens certainly did not vote when they decided on independence, and this is not the country that I want for us or for our students. So that the public will somehow have the whole framework and the point of the report itself, because the Members we are discussing today, we certainly have been reading the report, we need to go in kind, and we need to sum up how the story, let's say, happened randomly, although it is clear that it is hiding the key in every case. In December 2008, shortly after Mr Pahor's term of office, an Iranian citizen, Mr Farrokh, opens an account at the New Ljubljana Bank, the director is Mr Kramar. Now that Mr Farrokh has come directly to the Ljubljana Bank from all the banks that have been available to him in the world or perhaps because of the embargo, he is a stranger, although I personally am not surprised that the morning of Yugoslavia through the Ljubljana Bank has already been very fond of, or otherwise, friends with unlisted countries and that, at that time, there are certainly various structures of continuity that have been particularly nurtured by such friendships and, I believe, they are probably being nurtured today. This fact is significant because in 2008 Iran was subjected to an embargo by the European Union, which was a member of Slovenia or Slovenia, which, as of today, has in fact violated not only its own but also the common external international commitment. But it was obviously somehow more important that Mr Farrokh, with his subsequent extensive transactions, becomes one of our bank's largest customers, although interestingly, he is never met by the bank's management, regardless of the fact that the sum of all orders until the closure of the account reaches EUR 800 million. Then, in January 2009, Mr Kramar leaves the position, by chance, to receive a nice retirement, and the media and bank management will take place Mr Veselinovic. In March 2009, certain bank officials warn their superiors that Mr Farrokh's transactions are problematic and suspicious, nothing happens. More than that, in July 2009, the members of the administration confirm the decision, at the request of Mr Farrokh, that his transactions are exempt from the cost of an inflow fee, but that document is not actually signed by anyone or the signature is not legible or understood. Mr Veselinovic explained this unusual gesture to the investigative commission by means of some summer leave, and that the conclusions are signed by the authorised persons who are such but are not known today. In particular, this response by Mr Veselinović is unusual because the Bank has announced with this action the conclusion that the bank is exempting the payment of an inflow fee for a company registered in the tax haven in the British Virgin Islands, knowing that it is a country that has an extremely high risk of money laundering. But, of course, this isn't the end of it. The Bank has agreed to such a decision provided that Mr Farrokh’s payment turnover exceeds EUR 10 million per month. And so, in fact, we come to the absurd situation that the administration decides to further increase the payment of money of unknown origin from the tax haven, rather than actually eliminating the risk of money laundering as it would be appropriate for a suitable administration, in fact create additional circumstances that Mr Farrokh makes a smooth transfer of the money of the Slovenian account abroad at a minimum cost. Three quarters of a year later, the bank's foreign payment sector, which is in March 2010, is more concerned with the Commissioner, Farrokh, in particular in the light of an unusually large number of transactions, also informs the branch of foreign persons who check the business of the commissioner, but does not find anything unusual. However, they shall inform the Money Laundering Prevention Office, which shall then carry out the verification procedure in a very clumsy manner, to say the least. In the same month, the Office also receives a notice from the French partner service that unusual things are happening at the bank, but only in July, that is to say, for a period of four months after the notification, it decides to open or verify the transaction. After the law that was in force at the time, the office had no inspection powers, but of course it had to request the Bank of Slovenia and it is not understandable why the office waited until October, that is, half a year after the first notification that it had called on the Bank of Slovenia to carry out an inspection. However, the consequences of such non-action of the Office were still the unmistakable remittances of Mr Farrokh. At the New Bank of Ljubljana, it is certainly hot at this time, I can say, because apparently the only problem with Mr Farrokh was the foreign payment sector, while others consider all these transactions and complaints to be completely regular. The final meeting of December 2010 was also the conclusion of the Iranian scheme in the NLB or the Iranian-Slovenian scheme, although the transactions took place until the end of this month or year, that is to say until the end of 2010. This meeting, very interestingly, continued to insist that the transactions were normal and in accordance with laws and regulations, despite the fact that the representatives of the competent supervisory authorities, namely the Bank of Slovenia and the Office, which even received a notice from the intelligence service, were finally in position for a long time, but that they were indeed suspicious transactions in terms of money laundering and terrorist financing. So Mr Farrokh's bank account did not close with difficulty until two years after he had spent about EUR 800 million in the account for two years. Now, of course, the question of what was the role of the then President of the Government, Mr Pahor and then Minister of Finance, Mr Križanič, in this matter, which was evident to them by the investigating commission or which had given them political responsibility. In fact, it wasn't just the Bureau of Money Laundering who received the notice of intelligence. Both Mr Pahor and Mr Križanič were informed of the Farrokh and Peripety case in the form of a special Sova information message or report when the members of the Government were informed. So these are the reports that have a special level of security that doesn't come in everyday and so on. In fact, the intelligence service also obtained this information from abroad. This report lists all key parameters and part of the background of the case itself. Minister Križanič has been informed several times, not only by the intelligence service, but in addition to the Sove minister has received a written notice both by the Bank of Slovenia and by the Anti-Money Laundering Office, i.e. the body within the Ministry, but he has not made a move to, say, notify the police or the state prosecutor or the competent authorities or to at least as the competent minister of any ongoing investigation. Of course not, as Mr Križanič says, not to be involved, but to him as a competent minister, because he is, of course, one of his primary tasks, to assess whether the law enforcement authorities are aware of the matter at all. Nothing. Given the weight of the allegations within the Sova report, the size of a billion-dollar financial transaction, or 800 million euros, and the involvement of the largest Slovenian bank, which was clear that it would need to recapitalise at the same time, it was so compromised that, of course, it could lose credibility, which would have such disastrous consequences both for our country and for our financial system. And his behavior as an economist is personally totally incomprehensible. And the question really opens to me is, maybe it wasn't even intentional. Since such and similar insinuations will, of course, have to be confirmed by the competent authorities or the competent services. However, suspicions are certainly justified because, as it was said, the office was an authority in the composition of its ministry to prevent money laundering. On the other hand, the government was the Assembly of the New Ljubljana Bank. So the banks that have made an incredible amount of money through the system and not all the appropriate measures have been carried out within the bank. Moreover, at the hearing, Mr Križanič argued that at the time of the Farrokh case, which he had learned from the media, he did not claim to have dealt with the New Ljubljana Bank as a system bank, which at that time posed a high risk to the banking sector. On the other hand, he wanted to convince the investigative commission somehow that he did not notice the systemic risk of money laundering. In general, in the light of the fact that the Government, as the holder of the Ministry and Sector, had already adopted a decision in July 2009 to inform Iran of the implementation of restrictive measures to come to Iran and to impose on public administration and public law bodies and holders of public powers which are responsible for individual areas of restrictive measures against Iran, in accordance with international obligations and internal rules, to monitor and report to the Government in a coordinated and particular manner on transactions relating to that country. Well, he was the first one to respect his own decision, but he wasn't. Why? Because he wasn't capable of it or because he didn't want it. You know, personally, it is very strange that the former minister claims that he was not familiar with the Sova report, that he even overlooked such a notice from the Bank of Slovenia and the body in the composition of the Ministry on such an important subject, but that if we know that he was a member of his cabinet, then Mr Isajlović, who would have been, at least so in the report, a former SDV official who could have assured him that at least an analysis of such notifications would have been carried out. It is also interesting that the magnetogram of the hearing stems from, for example, the fact that the former Minister of Finance, Mr Križanič, has an unbelievably poor memory of the Farrokh case and, for example, recalls the meeting with the Iranian Ambassador on the subject of financial cooperation with Iran at the time of the embargo, which, interestingly, this meeting was never reported by the Minister or his cabinet at his own ministry, and he did not inform either the Foreign Minister or, I don't know, the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia or any other coordinating body. I wonder why. You probably didn't, I don't know, talk about the weather, and I wonder what was really so mysterious about the conversation that he, as an official person, even under the "secret" decision of the government, didn't come up with the idea of making at least a note of this meeting. There are countless such and similar details in the report. It seems to me that too many loops do not seem to support today's conclusion that former Minister Križanič is politically responsible for inappropriate action in the event of Iran's scheme and proliferation and, indeed, consciously ignoring this problem. And Mr Pahor's role is in fact no different, given the previous reports and allegations of the National Assembly, almost somehow expected, although the then Prime Minister was informed by the Soviets in a special report that some strange things are being cooked in the Farrokh case. Mr Pahor, the current president of the country, argues that he has not read a special notification. Why is that important? The notification stated that there is reasonable suspicion that Mr Farrokh is an intermediary through NLB in transactions related to the suspicions of nuclear proliferation, which means that there is a suspicion of cooperation with the Iranian military industrial complex for the purpose of nuclear weapons. But, as it is said, Mr Pahor ignored the announcement of Owl and, in his manner, traditionally blamed his advisors or advisors for national security, Mr Lubi, who, by the way, doctored from the national security promotion, although at the hearing of the Commission, in my opinion, was very poor or unconvincingly cut off. Mr Pahor argues that the advisers have not informed him, but you know, because we need to understand that his process of work is specific and that he does not read these special reports of the Owls, although the Law on Owls provides that the Agency provides information on its findings first to the Prime Minister and the competent ministers, and then, of course, to other authorities of the state administration, so that they will, of course, take certain measures to exercise their powers, especially when the Owl itself takes the initiative to do something that may, directly or directly, endanger the security of the Republic of Slovenia. It also seems incredible to me that, despite the legal obligations of Mr Pahor as the then Prime Minister, he did not even have direct communication with the Owl, which is also clear from the evidence. Moreover, at one of the hearings, Mr Pahor, our President of the Republic, commends that he will not read any possible intelligence reports in the future, perhaps have been read, and that is all. In fact, I do not know how to comment on such implementation from this place, because it is simply an institution represented by Mr Pahor, and I think its implementation is simply completely depressed. Because it's not a joke. Today, we are not discussing skates or drooling, but we are discussing the tasks, duties and specific characteristics and qualities that must be fulfilled by a person who represents literally all citizens and citizens. I understand, however, that Mr Pahor has decided to see himself or his role as president of the country somewhat more profanely, but it seems to me that such political ignorance, which he shows, certainly does not bring these functions closer to people, but rather vulgarizes his role. And, of course, it also shows nicely in the affairs that we are witnessing to them today. Thus, each Prime Minister is obliged, in accordance with the law, to take appropriate action in the face of minimum circumstances that could harm the status or reputation of our country in any way, but not to withdraw the view of the parties because of his own political career or any other calculus. Thus, my assessment of Mr Pahor's political responsibility in the case of Farrokh, as well as the Commission, is based on the statement made by the expert witness, Dr Miroslav Gregoric, who has assessed that the lack of action or failure to act on the political summit in this case has certainly led to a risk to national security. Indeed, the United Nations Security Council has already imposed on Iran two years before the opening of the troubled transaction account by resolution, including Slovenia, that these measures must be taken to prevent the supply, sale and transfer of any benefit to Iran, which could contribute to the enrichment of uranium or be in any way linked to weapons delivery systems. Slovenia should also inform the United Nations Special Committees if it detects anything suspicious in this direction. Slovenia, led by Mr Pahor, then President of the Government, because of his failure to respond - whether this was intended, as it was said, to examine the law enforcement authorities - did not do any of this. This, of course, casts a bad light on our international image, so I will support the conclusion that Mr Pahor accuses political responsibility in the event of proliferation within the NLB. And one more thing. When I listened to the first responses to the report, especially by those who are deeply involved in this story, because politically it is already going as folklore for the same persons, here I think of Mr Pahor and Mr Križanič, who, in my opinion, in their reaction to arrogance or misrepresentation, wanted to relativize the report, when it comes to a pre-election political spectacle, it seems to me that one thing has to be clarified - these 600 pages are not a political spectacle, these 600 pages are “facti gross”, how the gentlemen are acting politically, how misinterpreted their function, which was entrusted to them by citizens and citizens - and, by the way, is not poorly paid - and how obviously living in a country where the mentality has somehow deteriorated, how it is perfectly normal that the politicians have been entrusted by the relevant institutions and citizens - and, by way of example, would not even punish him. And in the final stage, why would the public get used to the very problematic stories of certain political actors traditionally being rejected from them as from Teflon, if not, and then ultimately by the media, who can be truly surprisingly selective with their assistants. This is not how we are discussing political conviction today, nor are we discussing preferences, any pre-election shopping, but are we really discussing the facts where this Slovenian boat with such and similar stories has gone. And that, I think, is also that basic, minimum value system of political hygiene, which is really that political culture that this country is thirsty and that has nothing to do with political conviction. Persuading is a matter of debate, and also on Instagram, political developments are a matter of taste and controversial criminal practices are not, and it is our duty to draw the line here. In conclusion, I would like to brief myself with Mr Jedhan, the president of the SD Party, who, in his recent interview for the evening, if I am not mistaken, would round up the Members who supported the rise in social assistance by the end of the year, and then the policy will finally have to deal with the social image of our country a little bit more specifically, not just with numbers, if you ask us, us Members, how the heart allowed us to do something like this. And I directly ask Mr Jewn, on the basis of today's debate on this report, where his heart is to support these Members, for the sake of the election combination of excellent staff, which is certainly being transferred by the SD party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Dr. Franz Trček, allow me, colleagues and colleagues, just a sentence. It has been an honor for me to have led the National Assembly, today obviously I am running it for the last time as Vice-President, of course, and I think that, despite some of our procedural complications, the National Assembly is a cultural institution. If I watch foreign television, foreign national assemblies, or lower houses, I have to say that all kinds of fights happen, but if we go to Japan or something like that. So I think we've done this part of our role on some level. The second thought I will allow myself is that some say that every generation of Members is worse. I cannot agree with this on my own, for a simple reason, because the times were changing - there are no major topics anymore, but they are small subjects and we have tried as hard as we can, most of the time we have tried. However, history will clearly assess whether we have done something or done nothing. So, thank you all very much for the pleasant cooperation, and of course to those who are running, I want success in the elections. Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Chairman. Good for you, too. Now I'm gonna look rude again, and I didn't mean to. What we're dealing with today, if it's a big topic, is above it. What we are dealing with today, you know, only two themes are similar. The mother of all Slovenian affairs, which led to some MEP from Maribor, wanted to kill him, literally with a speedboat on Pag and TES 6. That's three key themes. I love this society, and I love this country too much to take this topic seriously. I can honestly say that before I did this, all the threats I received as a member of the Parliament could have been paid by someone on a regular basis at the Slovenian police station. After I did this, we could hire some extra people. Probably another two or three for Jani. I can also say that an agent of some Iranian service in old Ljubljana at some inn under a desk with a camera, etc., etc. It's about, you know, fear and courage, the known work of Kocbek. I agree with my colleague Shirclje that this is a Slovenian scheme. Yeah. Iran is a Slovenian scheme, NKBM is a Slovenian scheme, the tunnel is a Slovenian scheme, the bank hole is a Slovenian scheme, the veins are a Slovenian scheme, TŠ 6 is a Slovenian scheme, corruption in health are a Slovenian scheme and could still be mentioned. And Dr. Logar's colleague had to be brave in his investigation beyond fear. All the investigators in this reference worked, and KNOVS acted in spite of the abuses of the mags. Grimes. The only difference was that somehow we knew that based on the logic of action currently the biggest opposition party's interpretation would be slightly rejected or thrown in some direction as it was. I admit it really bothers me personally when he says "mag." Grimes, my commission. When Dr. Matic says, "Jani Möderndorfer's committee." Not because I'm on both boards. These are the Commissions of the National Assembly. Member groups shall decide whether or not they shall have a formal membership and how and how they shall participate. Lefty was getting pretty banged up. You know, we were a group of six people. We've completely lost our colleague Hanžk on TES 6. I was doing it. Everyone else was working. I went with our team to recalculate, five of us worked for the 17 average members of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen. I can honestly say that I have thought seriously about having a separate report, a separate opinion on these reports, just as Mr Weber had with another commission, but then I did not, because in this case, of course, it would be difficult to bring this to an end in time. Why? Now, this is the first story we've ever had if we let KNOVS abuse by the mags. The Grims, which was also allowed by your coalition in this mandate by Tonin, Mahnič and Janša, let us be honest, must be separated between the report and the interpretation. The report wasn't mags. Grimes. The report was written by a lady from this byte of ours, whom I respect so that I could no longer respect her, I will be very honest. But what they were saying about it was, in fact, another story. Now I can understand some of the mysteries that the SDS has gotten into, but I'm here to agree with Janie. You know, if the left hand were caught in this mess, and I would have found that out on this committee, I would be the man who would probably get the left out of Parliament. And it's ethics and it's supposed to work and it's ethics and it should be Dr. Logar, and he's too afraid that he couldn't do it, you know. I mean, I'm sorry, some lady took a picture of someone and was on Instagram talking to Rock Snezic, there was this lady in front, Mr Snezic's wife, and this lady who was a "mula" money carrier in the snow. And here, in fact, is a citizen of the United Kingdom of Iranian origin and a citizen of BiH at the level of what they were doing in the same story. Of course, he did something for the country under the embargo, and he did something for tax evasion companies not to use any worse word. Now, from what they've written or tried to put into words, the visible members of the SDS will eventually turn out to be that it wasn't that John Janša, that it was our John Janša, who is running in Grosuplje, that's how a person would understand it if I were to make a little joke. But you know, John Cankar's most famous political speech is called Purification and Rejuvenation. And if we need anything, we need it. Cleansing of Slovenian politics, independence from the so-called ‘Luhansk People's Republic’. I'm not just showing up on SDS here, but you know, at some point we were sitting in the hall, when my colleague Sasha read only a quarter of SMC and I from Left, I'm mine, frankly admitting, sent to the field because I've been working on it myself, because they can't discuss it substantively. But there was no old politics in it. Then Tanko knocked a little over the door, and he saw that none of you were there, and Dr. Logar and colleague Irgle flew in. Now, a colleague of Weber showed up and the vice president on his way out went to the bench to sit down. It's not a coincidence. But you know. Janša and Pahor are the product of the same old party school as most visible, Peterle also, after all. And these are just the different faces of the same coin that we have to get rid of after 30 years. If this is not clear to us from all these four investigators, if this is not clear to the people, then let us turn it off. Then let us make collective harakiri, because then we really are not to have a country, let alone a state, let alone be sovereign. These are the facts, you know, I was very fond of reading until I became a parliamentary, Scandinavian criminal. I've read the entire Demšar, including our Maribor criminal writer. These four reports, and those criminals I read before, are fairy tales for little kids, against that. But you know, we can make a big business out of this, after all, but you know, the prison that is now being built or being built, somewhere on the outskirts of Ljubljana, will be too small if the third branch of power really wants to take it all the way. And now the media and the flies and the elephants. I'm sorry, Eva, but your piece of work is not made of elephant flies, mammoths with dinosaurs, pennies that violate the legislation on the financing of political parties and the concentration of media ownership from some Hungarian oligarch. Why? Because you've been pushing too hard against Merkle, and your tentacles from Germany have been closed. I know who was sitting there like black ducks in Malta when the EPP met. Orban, Jansha, Gruevski. And it's not just your partners telling me, I'm checking it out, I've got a better network than Owl in many ways. [[advertising from the hall]] Okay, but it's not worth laughing about. Someone who's been in politics since 1991 to go over credit 30 times in some calculation, good morning. Of course, in my separate opinion, I also wanted to give a more taxive indication of all the politically responsible persons who have already been prejudged by the leader of the New Slovenia Group as criminals, but not because of this you have gone mad in the SDS, but I have already explained why not. And now, if I finally touch the President of the Republic of Slovenia. I would like to respect this function, but this particular gentleman has lured it so far that we will need two more mandates to respect it. The day after Jani had a press conference, Borut Pahor had to resign. It is too late for us, but it seems to me that the next call of the National Assembly - and I mean to be gravely grave - should, because it has a legal basis, lead to the resignation of this gentleman, because it will be the beginning of a political and even if you want to, general-cultural cleansing of this beloved, dear chicken. And just for the end, but you know, I often hear, you politicians are all the same. No, no, no. That's not true. And for 30 years what has happened has happened because I am a relatively young politician because we have enabled citizens and citizens to do so. In Slovenia, we know everything. Let's stop blinding ourselves. And also people, citizens and citizens have to assume part of their responsibility without knowing that we are here, I don't know, some cats that are getting a little banged up. We need to ask ourselves in this society and in this country what is the function and the task of politics, but you know. When I accidentally became a politician, I couldn't sleep all night, the fucking road, you're responsible for 2 million people, you've got 10 billion future budgets on your back. How many of these candidates who are running today are aware of this? But I don't know if it's 3%, and that's a big problem that we actually have here. Someone who has read or merely followed all these investigators is ahead of a very simple decision on how many votes to give to the Brglez line SMC, how many votes to give so far to the void of Sharca, if at all, and how many votes to the Left. Everything else, my dears, is too dirty. There's no dry cleaner that's gonna blow it. And until we figure it out, we're done. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u97	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Get Mr. Simon Zajc and Dr. Ange Logar ready. Mr. Weber, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u98	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. When we talk about money laundering, of course, in the Slovenian banking system, and specifically in this report by the parliamentary commission of inquiry, it is also necessary to make it very clear that one of the important reasons or even the most important, is that this is happening, the abolition of SDK. At the time the SDK was abolished, of course, control of financial flows was also lifted. Therefore, one of the important solutions we are talking about in the next mandate is actually the re-introduction of SDK in a new form, which can be even more effective in view of the many possibilities we have for new modern technology. From that moment forward, of course, we will be able to control the content, height and purpose of individual payments. But until we do, of course, we will find that this is happening powerlessly. Let me also say that it is unacceptable that in all these cases, which we are talking about today in the National Assembly, there are actually honest media and very clear media reports that it is possible in Slovenia to launder money at the New Maribor Credit Bank in Gorica without problems and also indicate which mafia is doing so, and in Slovenia nothing happens. How is it possible that law enforcement authorities do not react immediately and prevent this from happening at a time when it is made public? Nothing happened in Slovenia. Let me also make it very clear that, as a member of Parliament, I have made an appeal both in the case of the New Credit Bank of Maribor and in the case of the New Ljubljana Bank, and I have placed an appeal before the Court of Auditors, the police and the Commission to prevent corruption. None of these three bodies responded to the Member's complaint. I have not given the complaint as much as any other citizen, but after this function as Members, we have an even greater responsibility, a responsibility to all, because we are representatives of all the people, but not all these three authorities, from the police to the Court of Auditors, to the Anti-Corruption Commission, react to the Member's complaint. How is that possible? As just the following example, however, I have succeeded as a Member in preventing the adoption of a new Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism in this reference in order to be exempted from this control – who do you think? – Slovenian state holding company and bad bank. Therefore, proof that the Ministry of Finance is knowingly submitting a law through the Government to the National Assembly, which excludes these two institutions through which money laundering is carried out, as remittances go to tax havens. Not without reason, bad loans are being bought out through companies from tax havens just because there is no control. Let me also say that the commission led by Dr Ange Logar, as a national assembly commission, does not have the authority to call on bank representatives from foreign banks. Such great propaganda: “a foreigner must come to the administration, a foreigner must come to the control world” and finally you will find that the reason is because the National Assembly cannot supervise him. So it is a systemic way of washing in Slovenia and until SDK is established, there will be no peace in this area. This is what I advocate and expect us to achieve in the next reference and from then on we will certainly not talk about the need to sell the New Bank of Maribor, that it is necessary to sell the New Bank of Ljubljana, because all of these sales are just a cover-up of these crimes. Therefore, in Slovenia the sale of the bank is potential [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] a system to cover all of this up. And this is actually the abuse that happens all the time in Slovenia, even in politics, to present and adopt such laws. I have opposed all of this all the time, and therefore the only solution is to repeal all the laws that make it possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u99	Mr Simon Zajc has the word to prepare Dr. Ange Logar, mag. Branko Grims and Mr. Janez Janša. Mr. Zajc, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u100	Yes, thank you for your word. Have a nice hello to you all. Let me first thank the investigative commission, the President of the investigative commission and, of course, the members for their good work in essence for a very short time. Now, I would like myself to have a few months more so that we can fully explore the event also at the New Maribor Credit Bank. But I'm looking forward to, well, I'm extremely glad that this commission extended its function or its investigation to this bank, because when you read this report and you see what was going on in this bank, of course, you can just grab your head. In fact, at that time a large number of accounts were opened at this bank, which were operating after the so-called Italian typology. These are the bills that are used for money laundering. These accounts are, for example, characterised by the use of a business account that is different from that mentioned in the opening of an account, high cash withdrawals shall take place as soon as high transaction funds have been allocated to that account, money is washed by means of an international transaction and transactions are carried out by a customer with a head office, residence or nationality of a country that is on the list of countries which, according to the data of the organisations and associations, do not comply with the standards for the prevention and detection of money laundering or are known for the production and sale of drugs. And New Bank of Maribor in 2013, 2014 brought together a series of reorganisations that seem to have been carried out precisely because of the fact that the bank would find out even worse and prevent money laundering. The Bank did not have a properly placed post as a money laundering and terrorist financing officer. In the view of the Bank of Slovenia, the bank, instead of the employer, has employed persons who are not competent enough for the said job, when the Commissioner Vesna Rožanc clearly pointed out in her reports that nothing works in this bank as it should have been, and this report has not come at all or has not been dealt with by the Administration, the Administration did not allow Mrs Rožanc to present this report to the Administration at all. In fact, Mrs Rožanc's management for the prize, because she pointed out all these mistakes, even moved her to a lower position, i.e. to the position of assistant authorising officer, and then to the post of Commissioner, they named Carmen Rus, which also Banka Slovenije found that she did not have sufficient knowledge to perform this function. And now who was in this board of NKBM at this time in the administration that cared so much, or what else should I say, was trying to prevent money laundering mechanisms from being put in place. At the time, the chairman of the board was Aleš Hauc, who gave a witness, I don't know why, but we can imagine that he avoided the board twice. And this is also the gentleman who invited Mr Primož Britovska to the bank. Mr Britovšek, for example, had the report prepared by Mrs Rožanc, in which he pointed out all the errors in the NKBM, but he hid this report or even then demanded that it be made new so that Banka Slovenije would not find out what was going on in this New Bank of Maribor. And now both gentlemen are close to the SDS party. And now it is becoming a little clearer why the SDS has not participated in this committee or is doing everything in its power to reduce the credibility of the findings of this Commission. That's one reason. Another reason, I suppose, is that, after the so-called Italian typology, there was another person who was very familiar with the SDS. That's Mrs. Diana Djudzic. Mrs Djudžić opened an account on NKBM, and before that closed her account on Sparkasse because the Anti-Money Laundering Office was investigating her account and they closed the account. Prior to that, the same office also investigated suspicious transactions in connection with Mr Janš's cousin's wife. Mr Britovšek is also heavily indebted to this same bank and precisely because he is so heavily indebted they have found that he no longer complies with the principle of “fit and proper” and have also been dismissed from the NKBM. They also closed Mrs Djudžić's account just before that. The Investigative Commission found that Diana Djudžić's business reflects the suspicions of money laundering, fictitious business, tax evasion and tax evasion, and the destruction and counterfeiting of business documents. Djudžić acted as part of a well-organised association that opened bank accounts through straw companies, through which flows of money of unknown origin were directed and were generally raised in cash. So, typical Italian typology. After this Italian typology, Mrs Djudžić also acted with Barcio holding. This is again important when we are talking about why the SDS did not participate in this investigative committee. You may recall, a while ago, when MEP Romana Tomc made sure that the European Parliament's Committee to Investigate Money Laundering in Brussels, known as PANA, had placed a agenda item on Iran's alleged money laundering in NLB. There the Members were amazed to see what this had to do with them, because they were dealing with Panamanian documents mainly. It was clear that the SDS was re-using the European parquet for its interests. We already know that. We've actually gotten used to it. It is interesting, however, that the SDS did not propose to this committee to deal with documents in which Mr. Ivan Simic, former head of Slovenian taxation, has been appointed and his business partner, Mr. Marius Eliades [[?]] . This did not seem important to them that this committee dealing with Panamanian documents should be considered. Why is Mr. Eliades important now? Because he's running his own Barcio holding company. [[Incomprehensible]] Holding with which Mrs. Djudžic dealt according to Italian typology. Of course, he didn't want to talk in this SDS on the European floor. Mrs Djudžić appears, of course, also in relation to Mr Snezic, and these two have also been operating on the Italian typology. The Financial Office of Celje is Mrs Djudžić's label for the so-called "missing trader" or for the tax spinner. Her company did not pay VAT between 2013 and 2016. The suspicion of the offence of tax evasion, falsification and destruction of business documents was also raised. And with such a person, of course, you are going from the SDS party, which announces that you will make order, to borrow 450 000 euros. Even if it's against the law. This loan is not an interesting thing to say that it is illegal, but there are other details in the background. This loan was secured by the SDS with its 17 000 500, slightly less, EUR worth a share in Nova Horizon. So 17,000 euros for 450 thousand euros. Therefore, it is interesting or not, but I find it interesting, because just before that, the SDS president said that SDS is moving away from this company in two years and that this conversion of the equity loan is a possible form of exit from this company. Why is that interesting now? Because if you convert a loan into a share, you avoid a profit tax. Since this would normally be sold, of course this difference would be taxed on profit, so it is obvious that this stay and these conversations with Mr Snezič, also called the doctor of tax evasion, would leave his traces in the operation of this party, which says that it will make order in Slovenia. There's only one order now, and there's another question. I am sure, and in the SMC, we are convinced that any party who is so wanted or financed is said to be unlawfully liable not only to be fined but also to be deprived of part of the budget. This is what the law makes possible, but since the law is after the last amendment, namely the law on political parties, because the law is in internal disharmony, it is impossible to do so. In the SMC we wanted to correct this law, but other parties besides the left made sure that the meeting was inconclusive and the law did not go forward, so that no party using this method would be punished in this way. However, I hope that this will succeed in the next reference. Now I'm going to confirm the report. I would also like the next call to continue with the work of this commission of inquiry, because it seems important to me that all the things that have happened at the new Maribor credit bank will be investigated. I imagine it will be the same as now that this will try to relativize, but as I said, I want the work to continue and the report will be confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u101	The text is prepared by Dr Ange Logar, Mr Jože Tanko and Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Dr. Logar, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u102	Thank you, Chairman. I congratulate Mr. Rabbit on his performance. I think it's his last show in his political career. He didn't fail. He was very political. In fact, he suggested some of the facts that, say, in principle, politics should not be used to characterise things in general, but that person belongs to one party or another. Mr. Britovšek is not a member of any version of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Mr. Britovšek voted SMC in the last election. He made his own public statement. He was appointed head of supervision for this operation at the New Bank of Credit Maribor at the time of the Government of Alenka Bratušek, when he was the leader of the parliamentary group, then the main party of Mr Möderndorfer and this report of the commission of inquiry does not have a single line or one piece of evidence that would link Mr Britovska to the Slovenian Democratic Party. Today, however, you wanted to present this to the Slovenian public as the main argument for your politics. Let me warn you, you've also violated the Secret Data Act. By the way, you were speaking the names of the companies that are marked and covered in black in this report. My friend Möderndorfer could tell you not to do this. This, then, can be discussed in closed work, not in public work. And that you have not read in particular the reports of the commission of inquiry, you also bear witness that you have constantly replaced the names of Rožanc and Ižanc during your discussion. Mrs Ižanc was at Nova Ljubljanska Banka and was not demolished, but was rewarded for her work during the Farrokh case. Mrs. Rožanc is indeed at the New Maribor Credit Bank. So the next time you speak, but like I said, I think it was yours that this was your last debate, unless you replicate, I would still suggest that you read in detail what you want to report to the public, because here you are only Members and electorates of the people. Now that I was listening to Mr Möderndorfer, I did not know at first what I was listening to for the first eight minutes, because Mr Möderndorfer devoted the first eight minutes of his opening act to the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Grims, to me personally and not to what conclusions the Commission of Inquiry is supposed to draw. You can imagine, not Mr Hanžek or Mrs Godec or my trifle when we presented the report, we were not talking about some political enemies who wanted to jeopardize the work of our investigative commissions, but we were talking about what we came up with investigative commissions. However, Mr Möderndorfer took a completely different tactic - in principle only in the second part, and in a smaller part, he spoke about a key issue, which led him to convince himself or others that an investigative commission should be set up on a matter that the other investigative commission had already completed its work. Now I have read this report in detail. When I read it in great detail, I went again to see the press conference of my colleague Möderndorfer, which he had on Tuesday at the presentation of the investigative committee's report. And I was surprised to learn that Mr Möderndorfer himself has concealed the findings reached by his investigative commission. In the text, a number of important findings were not presented by colleague Möderndorfer at the press conference, but, of course, he talked a lot about SDS. Look, say, only if we go numerically to review this report. This report shall consist of 245 pages of the detailed report on the Farrokh case. From these 245 pages, the Commission of Inquiry withdrew four pages of the findings. Then there are 34 pages on the New Bank of Maribor, followed by two pages of the findings and 20 pages on the case of Djudžić - 20 pages, that is, ten times less than the Farrokh case - of which only one single page on the link between SDS and Djudžić, followed by three pages of the findings and most of the public media time that the President of the Commission of Inquiry and, say, Mr Zajc has dedicated to presenting this report. And now I wonder whether this is a real presentation of the content and the main points of the report or whether it is politics. Given that the president of the commission of inquiry then presented this, the media focus on only one topic, of course, followed, and the Slovenian Democratic Party was once again a media star. In the opening presentation, most of the time when colleague Möderndorfer did not present the findings of the commission of inquiry, he warned of the traps and threats or objections he had suffered during his investigation, he said to me that I had hindered him or that our investigative commission had hindered him from obtaining documentation. Mr Möderndorfer spent two months dealing with our investigative committee and, at every forum, on all committees, on the MVK, on other committees, publicly exposed how we block his work in obtaining information. Even the professional colleagues of our commission of inquiry were somehow wrapped up with the secretary-general, you can imagine, such procedures have been followed. To be very clear, our investigative commission has never prevented anyone from accessing information. However, if the investigative commission receives a court decision stating that this document is intended solely for the purposes of this investigative commission or if we present these documents to someone else, we are criminally responsible, see, we must respect this. Once again, I would remind Mr Möderndorfer and the other members of the Commission of Inquiry, because they obviously do not know the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, to point out the fourth paragraph of Article 6a of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, which states: "Every Member of the National Assembly shall have the right to look into the evidence collected in the Commissions of Inquiry." Yes, I'm sorry, you had a basis in the Rules of Procedure for coming to see all the documents, but it was easier to speak publicly, and you're saying today that our or our banking investigative commission was obstructing the work of this investigative commission by Jani Möderndorfer, after you stopped yelling about it after two months and asked the authorities, you got the material in one week. Now, if we had done this in the beginning, we would have in one week material and we could have done it earlier, and you would not be running out of time to investigate the NKBM and the Diane Djudžić loan. Now, Mr Möderndorfer has also boasted here that the results of the work of his investigative commission already know that the police have already done internal control on the basis of their work, found violations equal to UPPD. That's not true. It has committed internal controls and found violations in the Farrokh case, that the police have not acted in certain cases in the same way as the law and procedures. But she did so not on the basis of your work, but on the basis of the conclusion of the interim report on the Farrokh case, for which you also voted. This was one of those five decisions which led these institutions to carry out internal control. Now, my colleague Möderndorfer gave me an opening speech, which, while he was going to present his views or report that I did not hear as many witnesses as he did, that I did not have such a wide coverage of all those who could say anything about this matter. But in the end, he came to the same conclusions confirmed by our investigative committee. Now, we know this economic principle of minimax, with the means given to ensure the maximum or with the maximum means to achieve this target. And we did it, and we confirmed it, and it just doesn't make sense for me personally to hear 14 witnesses in five hours when a single witness doesn't even have time to drink coffee. I don't see the added value of having such a wide range of witnesses interrogate if you can come up with given witnesses to the same result. Now, unfortunately, I note that colleague Möderndorfer, I will not say that, colleague Möderndorfer, that the members of the commission of inquiry also selectively identify political responsibility. See, the report with one sentence states: “On the basis of the evidence obtained and the testimony of witnesses in the case of Katarina Kresal, the commission of inquiry did not find political responsibility.” Pika. In addition, there is a very extensive contribution to the police work in the Farrokh and Sova report, and we leave to the Owo, but the police under the MNZ, led by Jani Goršek, who acted disastrously, and when Jani Goršek was a personal protégé, the chosen Katarina Kresal, did not and did not find her responsible, even though she was also the addressee of that special report of the Owl and although the police belong directly under it, under its resort. Now, why else in her case? I don't know, maybe because it belongs to or belonged to one of his former clients, a colleague of Möderndorfer's. I don't know, I'm not going to look for reasons for this, but the investigation committee doesn't directly identify personal responsibility, but at least it's objectively responsible because catastrophic anomalies have occurred in its department. Look, the Möderndorfer Commission found out everything went wrong with the police. Look what they're finding. I quote: “The Commission of Inquiry considers that there is a reasonable suspicion that the police did not inform the prosecution for concealing their actions in the Farrokh case and covering up the case in its entirety.” Ter: “The Commission of Inquiry notes that the police, led by Janka Gorška, conducted the investigation with extreme negligence, abandoned their official duties and acted in a non-professional manner and contrary to the legislation in force.” Can you imagine? Police, Guardian of the Order. Unprofessional, reckless, contrary to the law in force. In a European country! That's a shocking conclusion. This is a shocking observation, excuse me, in a country where the rule of law is supposed to apply! But did you hear your colleague Möderndorfer say that in the introduction? Did you hear him say that at the press conference? No! No! He kept quiet about it. President Jani Gorška Katarina Kresal is not responsible because this paragraph alone states: “On the basis of the evidence obtained and the testimony of the witnesses she did not find the political responsibility of Kresalová.” Ha, how am I supposed to imagine that this is a credible report, but if one of the eclectic findings, which should be delaying, delaying confidence in the rule of law and the functioning of the rule of law, the President of this Commission does not present as one of the main findings in his introductory presentation. Now, 245 pages of the Farrokh report is read as a criminal story. I assure you, excellent reading, well prepared, substantive, emphasis, otherwise confirms the findings of our investigative commission, which means that we have somehow all come to the same conclusions and adds an important part about the operation, I said before, the police and the Owls. [[…]] Police and Owls. I will now read to you the decision proposed by the Commission of Inquiry, Decision No 2: “The National Assembly recommends to the Government that, on the basis of the essential findings of the parliamentary inquiry in question, approaches to the construction of a modern and effective information and security system, which will also be able to respond to modern security threats through anti-intelligence powers.” This conclusion is even more shocking. Can you imagine, under the leadership of SMC member Jani Möderndorfer, that Sova is not today capable of providing a modern and effective security and intelligence system? In a job run by the Director, who has been personally appointed by Mr Cerar, the former and the present! But did Mr Möderndorfer present this eccentric, shocking conclusion at the opening presentation? It's not. See, this is already another very important conclusion which was not presented by the President of the Commission of Inquiry. Is that what you imagine? The report also highlights very interesting people, whom we have already reached in other business areas, such as the two investigative commissions – our bank and Jelkina’s health issues. Here too, in Iranian affairs, they smile around Yuri Children and Gorazd Jančar. And the investigative commission of colleague Möderndorfer notes the link between the Ljubljana Bank and its intelligence officers and Iran, with Iranian operations. Among other things, it finds that the Commission of Inquiry has identified at least one business where the credit via Proteus was mentioned, namely the LB and Safti Joint Undertaking (later, we know KB1909), where, of course, Mr Child, who had a hand over the branches and subsidiaries of the Ljubljana Bank, was very important during the period when it came to this, and also took care of it in some way that the branch of the Ljubljana Bank became the Embassy of the Republic of Slovenia. Safti, Proteus, KB1909, Gorazd Jančar, Yuri Kid, you remember these cases, don't you? [[…]] As head of Adria Bank on Monday, Oziroma is asked by the KB1909 Management Board for credit, decides on Tuesday, approves it, comes back to KB1909 on Wednesday where he sits on the Management Board, issues the bonds, and after he goes back to the head of Adria Bank from KB1909 to buy the KB1909 bond on behalf of Adria Banka. [[…]] And we have a circle concluded and one and the same, the same people are sliding around and nothing is done in Slovenia. That Mr Child was also active in these Iranian affairs, this commission of inquiry also confirms, on the basis of a hearing of a hidden witness, shocking, but did Mr Möderndorfer present this in the introductory part. Did anyone hear him?Oh, my God! I didn't, but I heard it coming from the winter ice cream SDS, SDS, SDS. Now the Farrokh report gives very detailed details of what criminal activities were carried out in the New Ljubljana Bank, how these transactions were carried out, the Iranian scheme and so on. But in the introduction, you heard this phrase from your colleague Möderndorfer: We have identified only one example of money laundering, it was not a crime, it was a crime, and now Nova Ljubljanska banka has an exemplary system. In short, it's okay. It's okay. Don't worry, don't panic, it's a clean slate. Do you have any idea what it might be like to read between lines? See, on the Commission of Inquiry, when deciding on this report, where the main emphasis was removed from the presentation, all those who publicly oppose the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank voted. Look at all those. And I can't get rid of this bitter taste that this report was in this part, not the content part, but this presentation part, the media part, the media preparation of the event prepared to rehabilitate the New Ljubljana Bank, to say, look, now it's all right, these banks really don't have to sell now. But they obviously had expert colleagues who were not wrong and who had really examined Farrokh’s project or Farrokh’s case and had come up with these shocking findings that I had previously presented and that were not publicly presented and that came to this, and then we had to figure out what we wanted to do now. Now, if we can confirm what an investigative commission has already found before, obviously this investigative commission was pointless. And then it's just, get one, first gift, where there's 25 on SiOL. 9. a report or this article on this alleged money laundering in NKBM, an Italian scheme which was then found to have been done in all banks, and for some time now the Anti-Money Laundering Office has not done enough or almost nothing. And there was just one sentence that offered a very nice connection then to the SDS, which says, "Britishek, agent of the Owl in the time of the Yangtze government." So, purely from the context drawn in that article, this sentence, on the basis of which you then hung yourself on this, although in fact it should be written, Mr Britovšek became responsible for this area in the time of the government of Alenka Bratušek. But once again, I emphasize, great that this has been studied. Because when we started studying this area, the members of the SMC told us not to study it, and Jani will be studying it anyway. So don't duplicate that, and I had a lot of trouble on the investigative committee where they voted or didn't want us to even ask for information on money laundering in NKBM. Interesting. And then when there was this conflict, I said, okay, and Jani will, because she knows she'll be able to, because she'll get the papers. And then, even when there was nothing out of this deal that directly pointed to the SDS, there was a rescue in the case of an article in Dinner, where it was quickly again, two days later, the Commission of Inquiry extended its mandate and began to investigate it. And that's great, too, and it's great to search everything, because actually all the anomalies need to get to the bottom, whether they come from the left or the right. But when I heard the opening presentation earlier, and some of the debaters, I couldn't get rid of this feeling that SMC was trying, as well as some other parties, to draw out SDS from the scars into this report, when, in fact, it can't, according to the report at all. He can't do it at all. I was trying to find this tail in this report where I was supposed to find SDS, and I'm sorry, I didn't. I didn't. In this report, you can imagine, there are a few adjectives where it says what Janez Janša said at the press conference. In short, a press release from the Slovenian Democratic Party. The laws of all articles or points relating to these matters and extracts from the Apes have been laid down inside. And then one side of the link between SDS and this loan, and if you read this report very carefully, you will even find that the findings of this report do not relate at all to what was found in the investigation itself. And I'll explain to you how. I'll explain. Look, let's say this loan is specifically recorded by the commission of inquiry. The Commission of Inquiry shall determine the non-consistency in the work relating to the valuation of insurance for those shares. Then let's go. From this point of view, the suspicion of tax evasion could then arise as SDS had a loan agreement, a suspicion of tax evasion. Great. We know who's studying. That's what Furs is studying. I believe he'll be examining this as soon as possible. Then mixed loan and purchase contracts, i.e. they can avoid paying the tax. It may make it possible to avoid paying the tax. One institution must probably find out if another has come. Come in. The Court of Auditors found signs of a violation. That's what Comrade Gorenak said. He found signs of a misdemeanor. The SDS forwarded all the documents forward, thereby identifying the signs of the offence. At the same time, the Commission of Inquiry did not investigate money past information this time, because only fragmented information was available. Now I've told you what the base was for what you draw the conclusion, and then there's an incredible conclusion. The introduction to this Decision is that it allowed for the suspicion of tax evasion between SDS and Djudžić, as illustrated by the scheme which was carried out in the case of another company. This is now an introduction to this serious accusation of SDS because this scheme allows for Djudžić to do so on some other occasions. Look, this sentence doesn't have a strong enough standard for the Institute of Parliamentary Investigation, because it's on the level of pamphlets, and I'll tell you why. This is about as much as if they said Jani Möderndorfer was corrupt, which also shows the fact that he was once employed in the UKC before becoming a politician. This is at the level of approximately the same argument. On the level of such reasoning. Then the Commission of Inquiry concludes that, on the basis of this information, there is a suspicion of tax evasion, i.e. there is now a confirmed suspicion of tax evasion, and the Commission of Inquiry points out that it is controversial, not only a source of money that can be sourced, you imagine, which can be derived from economic crime, crime, corruption, theft, drug and human trafficking, weapons, tax evasion, but also an eccentric illegal financing of the activities of political parties, the illegal conduct of Janez Janša, etc. You see, pre-fregmented information could have been suspicious, it was a violation, but now, I'm part of a group that uses money that comes from economic crime, crime, theft, drug trafficking, people, weapons, yeah, I don't know how many prostitutes we had to sell for me to have my poster in my constituency. [[…]] Tell me, colleague Möderndorfer, I do not accept such reasoning on the investigative committee. The Commission of Inquiry shall have a constitutional mandate. 93rd Article of the Constitution, highest level. And when such a pamphlet comes into the text of the commission of inquiry, I'm sorry, I'm offended as a Member, I'm offended as a Member. For three years, I have worked on an investigative committee to verify every matter we have recorded in the report from three different sources. And I believe that the two other presidents of the commission of inquiry have done the same. That is why there was no politicisation when the Commission of Inquiry report was presented. But now it's different, obviously. But now it's different. See, here you write, say, “The Court of Auditors is a loan from Djudžić, if not disclosed publicly, it would not notice.” Well, that's a lie. We're the ones who made it public. The Slovenian Democratic Party publicly disclosed this loan. It's not Jani Möderndorfer, it's not this investigative committee. It's a Slovenian Democratic Party. Admitting a mistake, providing all the documents required, returned the loan, but not 90% of the time, Members of the SMC devote themselves to the SDS issue. Look, I was disgusted. The vice-president of Parliament wrote this Twitt: “Black on white”, bellem - it says, “Janez Janša has not only signed lease contracts for the electoral campaign with the mafia organisation, but the contract has also been signed under mafia terms.”, a member of the investigative commission. Sorry, there's not a single piece of evidence in this report for this Twitt. Not in public, not in private. In the closed section at all, the one who's down in the quiet room, if I'm not mistaken, I just went to read it, and there's no line on this matter. In a secret report, I don't know how you worked methodologically, but in a closed report, you have 6 pages, which is in the public part copied into a secret part. Why is that necessary? Why, though, should the same text that you have in public work be given in secret? In order to increase the number of pages, since they were not really 20 then, but there were only 14 pages left, plus 10 pages from UPPD typology, and from Janez Janša's press conference, and from the legislation. And that's it. And this is a report that is supposed to represent 90 % of public time. Those three findings, which I pointed out earlier, which are really eclectic, shocking and which would require immediate responsibility on what, and this investigative commission does not speak out in public. And I don't give a shit about those professional associates who prepared the Farrokh report. They argued, they searched everything, they put a lot of energy into it, to spoil it some, polishing it with SDS cream, because it was supposed to come from this report before the elections. Look, at the end of the day, if you're going to politicize it, who's going to want to work with parliamentary investigative commissions, if that's the good work you're going to do with politics and politicization at the end of this pre-election period? He can't. Mr. Hanžek managed to hold back, although before he started investigating, publicly speaking SDS is guilty, SDS is guilty, SDS is guilty. When he received the documents, he had to swallow it and swallow it and act like an investigative committee of work. He was looking at the documents, and on the basis of the documents, he could only conclude what the documents were proving. But not here, but first there was a public conviction, and then the documents had to be found. And when the documents were missing, Janez Janša's press conference was also sufficient as an argument. I must say that from the four investigative commissions in this mandate, only this investigative commission will then prove to be pure politicisation. All other investigations by the Commission were able to carry out their work on the basis of their mandate and the documents they came up with. In that case, you couldn't do it. I'm sorry, I don't understand. I really don't understand this, because just if the four investigative commissions could finish the work normally they would say, look, there's been a quantum leap forward in this mandate and no one would dare to do anything else in the next term. But you've already predicted that in the next term, because now you haven't been investigating, because now you haven't been able to investigate, because now you haven't had enough evidence to look into it yet, but Janša is guilty, the point is, here's great. And that's the result of this investigative commission. Unfortunately, I must conclude that this Commission of Inquiry has not fulfilled the mandate set out in Article 93 of the Constitution, but has turned itself into some kind of policy and pre-election theme, unfortunately, even for the names of all those members who participated in this investigative commission. Once again, I note that it was obviously the right decision of the Slovenian Democratic Party not to take part in this investigative commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Before I give my word for procedural mag. Branku Grims, allow me to say just one sentence, given that they are the loudest in the SDS Group - they did not want to participate in this committee because obviously there is only one truth, and that is theirs. I would just like to say that, with everything that has been said, people can form an opinion, today the SDS are the loudest, while they have not even participated in the investigative commission. I'm surprised what you're even discussing in today's debate, given that you weren't there. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Mahnic, please, calm down, you'll get the word. Mag. Branko Grimes, you have a procedure. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Mahnič, can you please tell us what you want to say to the microphone? I'll give you my word, please. You don't hope. Mag. Branko Grimes, please, you have a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I will not only speak on my behalf, I will speak on behalf of the whole special group formed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and on the basis of the law on our powers, the powers of the Commission to control intelligence and security services. The introduction repeatedly stated that we in the past had exceeded our powers. It is proposed that something that has not been heard in parliamentary practice should be decided by what this Commission has proposed, which has destroyed everything the Commission has found to monitor intelligence and security services, even though it is the same material and substance. Well, then, we have acted in accordance with our responsibilities, Mr President, and we have gone to control at this time, to control all the services we control, including the Owl and the Criminal Police. The findings - once again, I speak on behalf of the whole group, and Mr Kopmajer of the ruling coalition was with us - are shocking. Mr Möderndorfer, in his opening part, if I am very mild, did not speak the truth. For this reason, I propose, Mr President, that you suspend the meeting for an hour, that I may convene the entire meeting of my commission and that those of us who have been under review take note of the conclusions of the two visits of the police, the Criminal Police and the Owls at that time, and then take note of the joint findings of the National Assembly. Then all that was said in the introduction today will shine in the right light. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u105	I don't accept your proposal. Mr. Jože Tanko, you have the floor, please. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr German, I would very much like you to read to me the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the conduct of the meeting, which allow you such comments, which have no direct or indirect connection to the conduct of the meeting. If you want to discuss, you have time within the Group of Members, sign up, comment, but when you hold a meeting, you keep it in accordance with the business provisions; nothing else allows you to do so. I must say that today the meeting has already started badly, in a way that is not appropriate, which has been caused by both the President of this Commission of Inquiry and the President of the National Assembly, and you are now continuing this story. If you want to account as a parliamentary speaker with any of the Members or explain to him any views, you have your place there and tell him. When you hold a session, you give the word, you take the word, you give the reminders, you interrupt the sessions and so on, these are the things that belong in your work circle at the time you sit up there. But when you don't sit there, and you can afford another thing, you can comment on going out and so on and so forth and so forth. And I suggest that you work to take this meeting away at least respectfully to the fellow Members of our Group. What you have with your own, I don't know, Shkobernets and others, you will already solve in the parliamentary group, and only in this public part of the session, you will hold a meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u107	Procedurally, mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u108	Mr President, once again, I propose that you suspend the meeting for one hour so that we can examine, on the Commission in peace, the information we have acquired during this time. These data, ladies and gentlemen, show that Mr Jani Möderndorfer, in the introductory debate, has gravely lied and deceived the entire National Assembly, because neither Sovo nor the police have received any intelligence from him, and all that he has done in this regard has laced up some of his imaginary files, probably on the basis of that letter from the Anti-Money Laundering Office, which, of course, does not represent any intelligence nor any criminal or other data. This is an entirely unanimous finding that we have received from Director Sova and from the Deputy Director of the Criminal Police on behalf of both institutions. Mr Jani Möderndorfer, I suggest we stop this session, withdraw the material and stop lying. When you put another nail in the coffin of a once-powerful SMC, you'll remember those words.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u109	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I can see it hurts a lot. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Well, whatever.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u111	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u112	Mr Grims, of course, seems not to have read this report, because he simply didn't listen well to what I was saying, and I will do it again because it's been 2, 3 hours, and I like to say it a little more and more. Mr Grims with his KNOVS commission, in the part where he speaks about KPK and where he speaks of, of course, the work of Mr Klemenčič, because of course the work of the Commission has been completely abused and this is the Commission's conclusion, and not of Mr Möderndorfer, as is rightly said, not as you say, has, of course, been clearly confirmed more or less, that this is not the case, and the report also clearly stated. But you're not the only one with a problem. I see that Mr Logar also has it, especially in the part where you want to discuss things, and some even discuss the things that are written in the closed part of the report and do not fit into this open public part. But as obviously some of you like to do it, I'm not going to talk about it. If you want, you can do it in private. By the way, the report did not read only the Logar in closed work, as he thought and sassy here, that the only 90 Members who read this report did, but it is true that there are very few, only 5. You must have been the only one from SDS. And, unfortunately, I'm surprised that some of you have this kind of discussion about closed work when you probably haven't even read it or looked at it. For Mr Logar, I believe that you have looked at him, but it is true that, of course, each eye has its own painter. It's also amazing how concerned he is about our investigative commission's professional associates. By the way, I spoke to you yesterday, and no one's been appalled, and nothing suffers because of what you find. But it's really just a simple fact. The report is public and what Mr Logar said can be read by every citizen or resident who has access to the website and can read what it really is. I at the press conference, of course, this is again an interesting thesis on how he understands my press conferences, which I don't blame him for, two-thirds of it was about the Farrokh case, two-thirds of the press conference just Farrokh. But that some would like to imagine that I would like to speak I would be most happy if I did not need to speak from your president, I would be most pleased if the subject did not spread to the NKBM at all, but you were missing in this space when I explained to your colleague Grimes who understood and did not comment back and nod to me and when I explained to him what was the main problem. [[…]] The problem is that at a time when this was happening in the New Ljubljana Bank, it was a crime and not a crime. Only the government of Borut Pahor, which is a kind of precedent and I have made this clear today, and also at the press conference, has changed the law and committed a violation of the embargo for crime. Mr Sturm in his code, when he proposed it, you accepted it in 2006, he simply did not propose it and you confirmed it. Therefore, do not project your own problem, which we would like to present today, to us and to our committee, and how we determine what happened and what happened in the New Ljubljana Bank. But if you ask me personally, even though it wasn't a crime at the time, it's incomprehensible that there was even a violation of the embargo. Now, what's more important I'm not going to comment on all these looks, views, and so on. [[…]] I know what kind of things it hurts if the commission finds out something else. I've never been able to tell Dr. Logar more, today, if you listen very carefully, I was very selective, very clear on what I said about Mr. Logar's committee. He was much more precise than his colleague Grimes, who abused the commission, until Logar did. However, it is a fact that he has heard too few witnesses, but I did not tell him that this is negligence, but because he no longer had time, then a new commission was already set up. But it's a little funny that two investigative committees are set up on the same subject. This reminds me of the time when SDS had its celebration in the Municipality of Ljubljana, and he wanted to have his municipal holiday. Please! It is strange, though, that the four commissions did indeed deal with the same subject. Well, I'm more interested in something else. I have been expecting your President Janez Janša to sit here today, who signed this loan contract, because he alone would be able to tell me firsthand why he signed it and what he thought and that he would finally be happy about the public interest – I would be most happy to shut my mouth, but I would shut my mouth – explained why he decided to do so, from which account he got it and where and to which account he returned it as a representative of the political party he represents. That would solve this problem, and today we wouldn't even have this discussion if we did it yesterday. What's more, I tried to look at his public statements. Now I've read this interview in your newspaper, where it basically explains everything about the commission and this loan in two paragraphs. But don't answer, except that he says that Möderndorfer is still a pass, that in his famous style, but if he wrote on Twitter, he would go down to his lowest level, which he is capable of, and he would use all those words that he doesn't hope in public at press conferences, especially before the elections. And at the end of the loan, it says that again the whole conspiracy and spider web around it is folded, POP TV, the piece is working against it, short, that's his answer. [[…]] Let him say it! No, he canceled, he won't discuss it. I saw him, I noticed he's on the list today. Last minute, he checked out half an hour ago as a debater. He's not even gonna perform. Because he knows it's better to keep quiet or what? Otherwise, I can't explain it to myself. All the rest are empty words and distractions somewhere else. I have no problem with the fact that a political party hires a loan, but I have a serious problem if the President of the party cannot explain why he has rented a loan with the lady and not one of any banks in Slovenia. Ma, even if he hired a bank in Austria, he'd understand. But no, with one lady where everything's weird. And he can't explain it, and so let the Prime Minister be tomorrow when he can't explain how he runs and manages this country. And he was wrong to rent a loan With all the apparatus, knowledge and intelligence you have in the SDS! [[…]] I just need one answer. Like I said. I'll sit down and be quiet. There's no claim. And don't turn your back on words I didn't say. You'd like to hear it. I know you have to feed your people because it's hard to understand. I understand all of this, only accounts will have to be laid down sooner than before, not because of you, but because of the taxpayers and because of trust, not only in your political party, but in the entire political system in this country, it has to be done. It is not to hide behind whether this report is good or not, whether it is of quality or whether the standard will rise or not. I know the report is good, and I can see it from the pain I'm accompanying.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u113	Procedural. [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u114	Procedurally, Joze Tank. You want procedural because you've raised your hand before or given a procedural mag. Branku Grims? Mr. Jože Tanko, please, you have a procedural procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u115	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Now, you're only quick when you don't have to. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 73, an interruption was proposed, as proposed by colleague Grims. And he suggested that because more information had just emerged and I think that this could also be determined because the National Assembly decided to obtain opinions from the working bodies, the ZPS, and so on, this was also proposed and I suggest that you decide on this. If you do not decide in accordance with the first paragraph, you may put to the vote after the fourth paragraph. And I think it's only right that things that have come up afterwards are explained. There is no valid reason that, on a subject as important as proliferation, as well as any other issues related to it, I see other issues more important than that, so that things are not cleared up. And now, given that this is not a matter of procedural questions, it is first of all necessary to decide on one procedural issue to move on to another procedural issue. It's the Rules of Procedure. It is necessary, however, to decide whether or not to put it to the vote or to put it to the vote. And here you can't launch a series of 15 motions in order. You have to go one step at a time. And probably, Mr German, because you all know that you must have gotten used to this in this term as well. This book is the constitution of this house and must be respected. And I propose that we vote on the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u116	Mr Janša Mr Tanko, do you therefore insist that we vote on this proposal? Okay, I get it. Unfortunately, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, we must put to the vote a proposal, Mr Jože Tanko, in this part is right. By voting on the proposal put forward by Jože Tanka. On the basis of paragraph 4, the point of Article 73 shall be terminated in order to obtain the opinion of the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services. I'm sorry. [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] No, I'm sorry, no. Mr Jani Möderndorfer, we must decide on Mr Tank's proposal. The proposal I read is on the table. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Okay, then I'll start with the procedure first, mag. Branko Grims, and then you get the word. Okay? Mag. Branko Grimes, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u117	Dear Mr. President. We have also received additional information from the Police at this time in writing, the call has been, all we can do has been done, and the only thing I have asked is for the meeting to be suspended for an hour so that we can have a normal session of the Commission will be public, you can all follow that I present all of this to at least the members of the Commission and that we are talking about what is happening. What happens in such a form, if any, is a scandal of the highest order. You have information, an official statement for this competent commission, that someone has given false statements to this National Assembly and will therefore be very likely to file a criminal complaint, but do not allow the suspension of the sitting to clarify what is true and what is right and what is wrong and what is wrong. Please consider your work and allow by one hour's interruption to convene a meeting to inform all members and members of what we have learned and how to proceed. This is essential in view of what has been said in the introduction and in view of what is proposed in the papers that are before you today. I ask you to do so on behalf of the integrity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u118	Thank you, Mag. Grimes. I don't understand your implementation because I just said we're going to vote. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u119	Vice-President, I don't know what new facts they're talking about, but I do know one other thing that the National Assembly has set up an investigative committee that is the only one that can, I'm going to say, find out and make conclusions with the final report. And the only final report is one that will say whether it will be accepted or not, so all 90 Members will have a chance if they join the National Assembly. But the other thing that is more important when the final report is adopted, then they can identify and convene meetings and I don't know, talk about what they think is right or wrong. However, during the consideration of the final report, the KNOVS cannot identify any new facts and go on to discuss proliferation. Why didn't he do it when he had his report? No, he was dealing with something at the time that wasn't even authorized by this commission. [[background advertising]] He engaged with Mr Klemenčič for Justice and called him for a hearing that he was not even obliged to come. Whom can KNOVS actually control? Intelligence, military, police, and this is where it ends. And please, let's stop doing some science fiction here on some new facts and do some engraving and exercise on the Rules of Procedure. Please, there are no new facts. The report's on the table. We all have it. We have a chance to look into the secret report, and that's it. If it assesses the National Assembly that these are not the facts that this report is wrong, it will vote that the report is not adopted and the matter is closed. I don't know why Mr Grims is going to be doing what he wants now, but outside of this agenda that we have today on the agenda, I'm sure he won't, and why the National Assembly of Knovs should be adapting to the meeting. [[…]] Let him wait until this session is over, and then let me be called Knovs at ten o'clock at night. This option is always available, at any time, 24 hours a day, since Members do not have eight hour workers. Moreover, the Labour Relations Act does not apply to them.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u120	Mr Jani Möderndorfer, I will not determine whether you are right or wrong, but I must put this vote on the agenda according to the Rules of Procedure. So we're going to vote. Do we have any other procedural proposals? I can see that. Mrs. Kustec Lipicer, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Vice President. Under the rules of procedure, you also have the opportunity to decide for yourself how and what. And I urge you to consider this procedurally. The strategy here is very obvious, visible from space. The SDS wants us to conclude today with a debate on how much themselves are involved in the dirty transactions of financial fraud that have taken place and are obviously still happening and are still trying to exploit them. How do they want to do this? We don't have a proper quorum right now, which means we don't have 46, not because of most of the people on their side, but on ours, but somewhere else. And in the event that we do not get 46 votes, this meeting will be celebrated for them, for the Republic of Slovenia, for citizens and for citizens, without epilogues. I therefore urge you to reconsider this decision and to allow us to continue the debate. All the reasons why we could continue are on the side of justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Since I can see that the heads are warmed up, I suggest a 15-minute break and we meet at 2400 and 50 minutes. Thank you very much. [[The meeting was suspended at 2.34 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u123	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to Mr Jožet Tank that the first item of the agenda of the 65th extraordinary meeting be terminated in order to obtain the opinion of the Commission on the supervision of the security and intelligence services, to be put to the vote. [[advertising from the hall]] There's no procedural, I'm sorry. [[advertising from the hall]] No, it's not, it's not. So I invite you to vote whether you are in favour of breaking the agenda. [[advertising from the hall]] Wait a minute. We're going to vote right now. Wait a minute. We have a technical problem. We're voting. [[advertising from the hall]] It didn't work? Let's do it again? The result is - just a moment to find him - 53, 11 voted in favour and 37 against. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 37.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. The next panellist is Mr Jože Tanko. Prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer and mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, now in this report, after which an extremely large number of witnesses were interviewed at short intervals, I can only conclude that none of the SDS and none of the others were interviewed with that fundamental coalition issue relating to that famous SDS loan. If Mr Möderndorfer would now like to hear the SDS President's opinion, he could easily have invited him as a witness to an investigative commission and all these reasons and all these things could be explained. Since he did not do so, in fact, there is only one suggestion in this part, what would be, what would be, what was wrong, what would be wrong, and what would be wrong and so on. And I think that's how to work investigative committees when for the point of the report you're making as a matter of principle, no one has been questioned and you've been doing everything on the basis of newspaper articles and maybe from what document, force is irregular, unusual. Such investigative committees that would work in this way [[There's a riot in the hall.]] , in the National Assembly it has not yet been that she did not call as witnesses in the investigation or as [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u125	Please, peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u126	Investigators of those who were involved in the business in order to then write a report and determine the guilt. [[…]] That's not what's happened. And from this point of view, this part of the report is completely non-creditable. What is written is, in a way, fictitious, there is no substantiation in statements, in opinions, in an ongoing investigation or in interrogations and so on, there is nothing. And I note that Mr Möderndorfer has actually fallen in the second major project, one where he failed and was not able to draw him up in a credible way, prepare him, question all those to which he refers, and once again, in some interpretation, something similar happened when he was one hour or two before the meeting was concluded and actually completely burned. The only one of the Slovenian Democratic Party who has been questioned as a member of the party is Mr. Zvonko Cernač, but he has not been heard in his capacity [[?]] KNOVS, the management of the KNOVS in the case of Farrokh. And it's written on your list, and it's done that way. Now, given that this way this commission of inquiry has spread rapidly, the problem is, in fact, whether or not, a worse problem is why it has not spread to some other cases. I don't know if I'm just stating that this didn't extend to the planned or planned forced settlement of Mr Jani Möderndorfer's political friends. There was a lot of money going through the system's enforcement procedure, one way or another, and nothing was done in this area. It could have been about money laundering, it could have been about, I don't know, playing banks, playing those who were involved in business, and so on. Now, if this is so important that the credit that was paid in full the next day, like some project to the investigative commission, is strange that some megaprojects of your great friends were not even investigated, not in NKBM, not in NLB, not in any other bank. However, they could be classified as a commission of inquiry in one way or another. It is no wonder that he holds a password once given by Mr Rudi Mogue, an LDS Member when he said of a Mrs 'NLP' – innocent, beautiful, smart. Now, if that's the way you treat a lady on an investigative committee when you question her, and then with one sentence you find that it has to be 'NLP', then that leaves 'NLP'. And I am surprised that Mr Möderndorfer, in all of his excitement, in all of his affairs, in this way will carry out this investigative commission in this particular case. The other thing that is also very problematic and important to me is that for key persons of the current coalition who perform ministerial functions and were then also familiar with the Farrokh case in one, the other or the third role (some already in the third role) there are no findings. Mr Klemenčič was at the time when this was happening, the Secretary of State, investigating a bank hole, he had a report he did not want to show to anyone, and now he is a minister who is watching over a department called Justice. Now, if this is how we do a parliamentary inquiry in this part of the findings and conclusions, then this is not a parliamentary inquiry, but it is called protecting the privileges and conduct of those who have participated in these transactions. A similar observation is made in the case of Farrokh. If we put it this way: in this billion-dollar business, the bank was at about three million commissions. It's a direct part of the bank hole. Since such costs have not been charged by the bank, it means that this has also been demonstrated in the business outcome. And there was something else. It could have been much more. So as far as the quality of this report or investigation is concerned, the problem is that they have been minimised, that is to say, it has run like a running lane with standard questions. I don't think the president of the open-ended commission has asked anyone more than three questions, serious questions. Everything else was procedural – costs, invitations to where we send the mail, and so on – and in substance more than three questions, what we were looking at was never really asked. The other members of the commission of inquiry were even more modest. The problem is, well, it makes a big story out of conclusions that aren't really there. It would be very correct, however, for Mr Möderndorfer to find out or say that he is the key institution or the key responsible that something is a crime and not a crime, in fact, because he has so strangely corrected the law on political parties. If that's what you think it must have been done. So that much of the blame, what you attribute to others, you actually carry yourself directly. Directly. And even these powerful attempts after this story has come out, to correct the law on political parties, but it is in this context of these matters. In short, now from what we can hear, that is to say, on the one hand, all those who have participated or have been familiar with the actions excuses part of this, because some are still active politicians in this SMC party, and on the other hand, as elastics, the blame is on something that has not actually been investigated because people have not been invited to the hearings, not the witnesses and not the interrogators. In short, the purpose of this is to make a spectacle, in a way, just to talk about one marginal thing, but the key thing is to hide. And now, if you are already talking, Mr Möderndorfer, about the need to raise confidence in politics, you need to have it with you first so that you do not jump from customer to client, this is just one part of confidence in politics, because it is every time a push, and the second, that if you are doing anything on the basis of trust in the National Assembly, then do it objectively. Objectively. It is said that your current or former policies are not treated in the same way, on the same criteria, on the same legal basis as, I don't know, some of the SDS or other parties. And you did nothing different in this case than I don't know, a court that in one case ruled out evidence that someone was innocent and in another case wrote evidence that they could have convicted someone and you voted for it in the National Assembly when certain matters were decided. This report is technically made exactly the same with the findings. Quite the same, some have been released because they have cooperated and been informed of these matters, others have done something, although no concrete actions and activities have been done in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u127	Procedural proposal by Dr. Franz Duck, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, chairman. Look, there's a border somewhere. I can call someone one way or another, by the way, I started "respected SDS" at the time, as opposed to you, I have a little more candy. But after almost four years of work, I will not allow myself to be lied to like the Member and the leader of the parliamentary group who has been in Parliament since 2000. Mr Tanko got more money through gross wages than the NLB commission, which does not mean that I am reducing this supercriminal in the NLB. I'm not going to allow myself to be lied to because I've run this story twice because I've asked almost everyone who's been interrogated more than three substantive questions, obviously Jože didn't go to the basement to read it. This story, Prijedor, Mrs Djidzic, is not a key decision, and we must say this, and we are not just on the basis of some documents, but on the basis of the serious reports of the four investigative authorities to prevent money laundering from Slovakia, Austria, our country and Bosnia and Herzegovina. And we did not prejudge anything in this, because I would be the last one to support this conclusion, but we have only openly said that the next call of the National Assembly, if we want to raise the quality of this in the direction of the temple of democracy, should deal with it. I also made it clear that if I were to be an active member of the Logar Commission on this committee or if I were an active member of the Logar Commission, and that a similar transfer of money was to be made to Luke Mesco, I would be the person who would probably get Levico out of Parliament. This is Article 82 of the Constitution, which is the responsibility of each Member and Member of Parliament. And in this byte, I have become too angry that someone who has received more than a million euros of gross so far from my mother's money, who does not have 500 euros of pension, my brother, who works for 600 euros, will cheat like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u129	Representative of the proposer, Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Yes, of course, it is necessary to respond to what honourable Member Tanko has done in his debate. In fact, see that I myself would be responsible for the law on political parties within four years, including those Members who are the first Members who know that this is impossible. This is impossible because at least most of those who vote must be. Secondly, the fact is that if someone, then and Joze and I, both, know very well how the law on political parties was passed, because we were sitting at the same meetings, we coordinated, and he also very clearly told me why and what things he disagreed with and why he would not support this law. And there was one rule to be called, look, let's let you handle it, or we can't support it, because you understand, but that's the case and that's the case. Today to say that I am responsible, Jože, look, this is the least that is incorrect for the Slovenian public. You know, I can also say some things that usually just happen in the lurch. Second thing, the commission of inquiry isn't Jani Möderndorfer. I had to explain this to your colleague Grimes once today. The Commission of Inquiry shall not consist of a majority of the coalition, opposition or anything. But from every party, a political party, comes one member. And on our committee, not once has a member voted against anything. So this is not Jani Möderndorfer's opinion. It's hard for me to convince Duck to vote with me if he doesn't agree with me. He'll never vote with me. The same applies to New Slovenia. Your biggest mistake, Comrade Tanko, and you are the bearer of this mistake because you represent this group, is that you have not exercised the right, democratic right to participate in the investigative commission and to hold your hand as the biggest opposition party and to control how we do it. You know, it's the easiest thing to do, buddy Tanko, to come up like this, but to do a little bit of curtsy after all, you know, and that's incompetent, but this sucks, and that doesn't hold anything. In the meantime, even if the KNOVS called, it was because it had some new facts to come to light. I apologize, only the Parliamentary Money Laundering Commission is in the New Ljubljana Bank and NKBM is competent and the only one to vote finds and discusses this and report to the National Assembly. Today, however, at this plenary session, of course, we can all speak our own language and by voting we will also make clear what we think about this report. All the rest are fairy tales for a good night, or I always call it that, when you don't know what else to do, then you start disqualifying the one who actually had to represent this committee. This, forgive my colleague Tanko, is the lowest level anyone can afford when disqualification rules over arguments. Although I'm glad, my friend Tanka, that you used it because then I know you have no argument that you're empty.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u131	The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u132	I must say, this meeting is very interesting. If anything were to apply in this House, the will to find out the truth should be in force. That's the point of investigators, ladies and gentlemen. And when we check out the allegations that were extremely surprising to me. However, if we held that something was silent and something was given to the Möderndorfer Commission and it turned out to be unrealistic, if it were true, I would personally file a complaint against the person who would have kept the information quiet, and it turns out to be false, you do not want to know about it. But even more interesting is the following fact. In the framework of our competences, we have also checked the use of specific methods and means and the provision of intelligence. The indications that have been made here are no secret information. None of what Mr Möderndorfer told you today, which said he got some intelligence that proves that those two were involved and then along with SDS, is any of it true. On Owl and on the police, they have no information, neither from Djudžić nor about the Year of Snezic, and of course they have not been given to the investigative commission. This has been confirmed by both of us in all forms. This can be confirmed by both, including Mr Kopmajer of the ruling coalition that have been in control of me. It is said that the new information is that Mr Möderndorfer is not fully telling the truth, and that the proposed decision is a lie that is misleading, but you do not want to be familiar with it. You didn't even want to interrupt the meeting so we could talk about it at my commission's meeting. And at the same time, you're entwining how everything is worthless, what we've done, which is, of course, the only objective of this commission, and I said that at the time, which was established, is to opera the then Secretary of State, later the President of the KPK, current Minister of Justice, Goran Klemenčič, whatever responsibilities. Well, you also gave another secretary, Matthew Vraničar, who was then Secretary of State. In short, you didn't even get them on this committee. What did the witness say at the Knovs meeting at the time? This has been publicly stated, on several occasions, that those who are directly responsible have determined that they themselves have conducted the procedure in order to bring the procedure to an end otherwise if that document were by the PKK [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u133	Time.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u134	/ turn off microphone/
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u135	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. One more time. For the first time, as I have already said, when Mr Grims was absent, it is true that investigative commissions are usually named after what he is leading them, but no commission is yours, not mine, not yours, not yours, not yours, not yours, not yours, not yours, not even Knovs. Maybe it's yours in your head, but according to the Rules of Procedure, it's not yours, Knovs. But it's true that with the help of the coalition, Tonin made yours in this term, and that's why I got out of Knovs. Another time. I will not allow these insults again because I made it clear in the debate that I do not agree with Janni about the report of Knovs, which was not written by the Magi after all. Branko Grims, but one lady who lost her vacation because of this, and you were yelling at her because Janša was yelling at you, and I'm going to say that because you took some information out too quickly. I'm gonna get a little more threats. I'm sick and tired of people who go to politics in Slovenia because I have a responsibility for up to 2 million people, and you're not going to do that again until you kill me. Done. That's enough. Of course. And I've seen four documents of four bodies dealing with investigating, preventing money laundering. Will you, with the science master's degree, say they're forgeries? Good night.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u137	We are moving to the conclusion of the debate, which is also given the floor by the representative of the proposalr, Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u138	Thank you, Mr. President. Today's open-ended debate has in fact shown that it is the report that, of course, reflects certain new findings and the majority of the groups in its position that certain measures must be taken, of course, in order to prevent anything similar from happening. It has been foreseen that, in fact, I am also satisfied, I must say that in just one group of Members, I see that in fact they are not satisfied with the report, because we do not live in a country of unity and I do not expect everyone to be for everyone and everyone for as soon as someone suggests something. Nevertheless, I am pleased that a different palette – a political palette, of course – has adopted a way of thinking that changes are needed and, above all, thinking that it is also for the sake of security and not least because of the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia that certain things do not happen. Now, there is essentially a closed part of the hearing before us, where, of course, we would have the opportunity to discuss and talk about the work that is closed to the public, but I have one proposal that I will make, the President, and of course also applies to all Members and Members. As long as there is no objection, I suggest that the open public works continue and that we are not unnecessary, given that I also know how many people have read the closed works, it is difficult to discuss things in closed work. Unless, of course, the interest is expressed, then of course, I absolutely support and have no problems. We can also talk in private. So this would still be my proposal, President, and then, of course, your decision is in line with the agreement with all Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u139	So Member Jani Möderndorfer made a procedural proposal not to close the meeting. I ask Members and Members whether anyone might want to discuss an additional and other additional final report. No, no, no. Since you have been given a word by all the said discussers who wanted to, and because the time set for the debate has not yet expired, and since no one has expressed any interest in discussing the documents in the closed session, I ask whether there is anyone else who wants to discuss the Rules of Procedure under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure. At the same time, I inform you that the vote will take place immediately after the conclusion of the debate. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate and note that the National Assembly took note of the final report on the parliamentary investigation of alleged money laundering and financing of terrorism, nuclear proliferation and financing of the activities of foreign intelligence services in Nova Ljubljanska Banka, d.d., and the alleged money laundering at the New Bank of Maribor, d.d. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Before voting, I suggest you take a 15-minute leave of absence for consultation in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u141	Okay, but then explanations and similar matters. [[…]] [[whispering to one another]] Then I'll give you 15 minutes, then we'll move on at 3:00. 35 minutes. [[The meeting was suspended at 3:18 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-24-SDZ7-Izredna-65.ana.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Final Report on Parliamentary Investigations on the Identification of Supposed Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, Nuclear Proliferation and Financing of the Activities of Foreign Intelligence and Security Services in Novi Ljubljanska Banka d. d. and Alleged Money Laundering in Nova Kreditni banka Maribor d.d. You want to explain? No, no, no. First, we turn to the decision on the essential findings of the Commission of Inquiry, which are set out in the final report on pages 209 to 373, in the supplementary final report on pages 49 to 163 and in the second supplementary final report on pages 4 to 98. [[advertising from the hall]] We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 1. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the key findings of the Commission of Inquiry have been adopted. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda and the 65th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, and thank the Members and Members and the services of the National Assembly for their work in this mandate. However, I call on citizens and citizens to participate in the parliamentary elections on 3 June and to make a wise decision.
