ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 55th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer from 16.30 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. - a little peace, please, is valid for all, not only Members - Mrs Urška Bank from 17:00 p.m., Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik, mag. Tanja Cink, Mrs Maria Antonija Kovacic, Mrs Marinka Levičar, Mrs Iva Dimic, Mrs Marija Bačič, Mrs Nada Brinovšek, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, Mr Branko Zorman, mag. Dušan Verbich, mag. Branislav Rajić, Mr Ivan Prelog, Mr Uroš Prikl, Mr Matjaž Han from 16:00 on, Dr Vinko Gorenak, Mr Jan Škoberne from 16:00 on, Mr Miha Kordiš, Mr Igor Zorčič from 18:00 on, Mr Jože Tanko from 17:00 on, Mr Roberto Battelli, Dr. László Göncz from 16:00 on, Mr. Marijan Pojbič, from 17:00 on, I will also be absent, and Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko. I've invited representatives of the government to the meeting. I welcome all present. We are moving on to the setting of the agenda of the 55th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday 12 March 2018 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda of the meeting, and I suggest that the assembly set a agenda for today's meeting as you have received a reference. We are moving on to the decision-making process, Members and Members of Parliament, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 59 of whom voted in favour and no one opposed. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 55th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On the eve of the day, the proposal recommended the Government of Slovenia in relation to the future of Slovenia. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the assembly by a group of 25 Members and Members with the first signed mags. Matthew Tonin. With regard to this proposal, the group of 19 Members and Members with the first signed magi recommended. Matthew Tonin demanded that the National Assembly hold a general discussion. In order to further explain the proposal, I first give the floor to the representative of the Magi proposal. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members, Ministers and Ministers, it is good to see you in such a number, one should not believe that the debate on the future of Slovenia attracts so many Members, which is certainly a positive and good thing. Even if you look at the government's response to these recommendations came from one of the longest responses on more than 80 pages they have described their opinions and these are certainly encouraging words. We should be looking forward to this, and we are certainly looking forward to this debate today, even more so, too many times in this House to discuss the future, too many times about the past, some other European Parliaments even have committees that deal exclusively with the future, why is this important? It is important for policy to focus on the things that lie ahead in the future and the very purpose of this meeting today is to do just that. Surely we do not have any illusions that these recommendations will already rest with this government and this government coalition, things have happened, unfortunately a few years too late, but that is how it is. What are the key challenges that await us in the future, what are the key things that await us in the next ten years? The issues that we are presenting are not fabricated in the opposition, but are the data presented by the European Commission, represented by the OECD and, last but not least, by the Government's UMAR. And it is for all these organisations that the following things are common: that in the future, Slovenia must face the ageing of the population seriously, that it is necessary to really start intensively reducing public debt and, finally, it is necessary to change our business environment, make it more interesting, more attractive. The first challenge of population ageing would be to ask a fellow worker if he could show a graph. The things ahead of us are inexcusable, according to statistics, an additional 100,000 of our citizens will be retired over the next ten years, which means additional pressure on the pension, medical and all other sub-systems that care for the elderly. Even if everyone today worked intensively on greater fertility, the results will only be known in a few years, in 30, 40 years. But we still owe it to everyone sitting in this hall to do what is in our power to increase the birth rate in Slovenia. The current birth rate is low, even compared to European countries. The average age of a mother when she gives birth to her first child is over 30 years old, and these are all things that are worrying and as a country, as a policy, we are obliged to do everything we can to make decisions for young people as easy as possible for children. Some can't have them, others don't want them. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u3	A little peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u4	However, those who want to do so need to overcome all the potential obstacles that exist and young people most often expose to jobs, housing and the environment. These are three things that in some ways prevent young people from making bolder decisions about these matters. The next important challenge, in addition to the ageing population, which will require a substantial adjustment to our health system, which has collapsed recently, including our pension system, is that the labour market needs to be substantially modernised if we are to be able to respond to these negative trends. The next important challenge facing these organisations is our debt country and I would like to ask for the following graph. Here's the whole truth in the nominal amount. You will notice that, in particular now, the Prime Minister of the Government is using the sentence in resignation, that this government coalition has contributed to the country's debt falling. But these are nominal amounts where it clearly shows that in money, that in nominal amounts the debt of the country has not practically decreased. However, it decreased as a percentage, because the gross social product of the country has increased and therefore represents a lower percentage. Apparently, the debt was reduced because our people were more decent, more laborable and more creative, but unfortunately, the real picture, when we talk about nominal amounts, does not show any significant reduction in our public debt. Why is that important? Because with public debt, we are transferring our burdens to future generations. Future generations will have to pay all the debts we create today. And if you look at specific data and ask yourself how much the state pays for all these debts for interest only, you get shocking information. We pay virtually every year only for interest as much as we pay the 2nd track. We imagine what this money could do, how many schools, bridges, roads and other things we could build if our public debt were smaller and if we had to pay less for interest. And the time of economic crisis, the time of economic growth to which we have witnessed in recent years is certainly the most appropriate time to reduce public debt. In times of crisis it is extremely difficult to do this when the time of fat cows is much more maneuverable to do so. And, in case God forbid, the next crisis comes, the problem that Slovenia has is that it no longer has room for manoeuvre. When the economic and economic crisis hit Slovenia after 2008, Slovenia had a public debt of slightly more than 22% of GDP. And governments that came after 2008 could in some way balance these things, soften them, with increased debt. That is why, during the crisis, we went from 22% of GDP to over 80%. But the problem that we have in the future is that if a new crisis happens to us, we no longer have this space of manoeuvre. The next challenge that awaits us is the harsh business environment. So that you will not say that the opposition is saying something of its own and that we are deliberately painting black things, look at this graph. Slovenia is 20th in the European Union and 48th in the world. And if we want to keep the 8,000 young people in Slovenia who go across our borders every year, then it is simply necessary to improve our business environment in a way that will also be able to provide services that will be well paid, of which people will live well. That's the basic point. What our business environment is like for you, I think, is a special law, a special Magna law, in some normal country of special investment law you would not need, but the matter is even more tragic, but look at the different treatment of domestic and foreign entrepreneurs. While we adopted a special law for Magna, for Joc Pečečnik, who would also like to invest millions in Slovenia, the Government has not prepared such a special treatment and these are the differences that weigh on Slovenian entrepreneurs and this is one of the things that needs to be addressed. Surely, however, immediately the next Government, after the government of Mir Cerar, will face three key challenges. If we move on, it's definitely p. So, three key tasks if we go from challenges to tasks now. [[…]] The first task is to definitely reduce the tax burden on work. Compared to other countries, in particular those, this graph again shows, with those with which Slovenia is competing, this tax burden is high and needs to be reduced. The next thing is, we need to modernise the health system, see how intensely the waiting periods have grown, how the number of people who are waiting for treatment at the time of this government has increased. And the last thing, if we want to ensure justice in this country, then we also need to take the courts seriously, you see that virtually Slovenian courts are extremely mistrusted. And these are the three key tasks that await the government in the future, and I will be happy if we finally start talking about these things today in this house too. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u5	In order to further explain the proposal, I would also like to give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mag. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President! Dear ministers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are discussing a very important topic, namely the future of Slovenia. I will first stop for the beginning and, of course, for the framework itself, if we are talking about Slovenia, what I really understand or understand under Slovenia. On the one hand, of course, we understand this as a country. On the other hand, we also understand Slovenians and Slovenians. I think that today, at the moment, the emphasis on Slovenians and Slovenians is, of course, a country for Slovenians and Slovenians to live peacefully, safely, well and naturally have a certain quality of life. And if, of course, we are talking about the Slovenian country, then we need to strengthen, ensure the existence and development, not only of ourselves, but also of countries with Slovenian culture, Slovenian art, Slovenian identity, in short, with everything that gives this country a primate and, of course, we need to look at it in all of those things and data that are in the material itself and what is actually needed to be done here. Therefore, of course, that we will have Slovenian nationality, that we will of course have the Slovenian state and the Slovenian state of establishment, we must ensure that Slovenians and Slovenians have the right quality of life and the right perspective. But first of all, what colleague Tonin has already said must be done with these demographic trends, which are in fact today and which, in this direction of development, we must provide enough Slovenians and Slovenians in this country. That's probably the first one. To do so, we must, of course, give this demographic policy and these families and these children an appropriate perspective. The prospect, of course, is that they won't leave. The perspective that the Slovenians and Slovenes will actually remain here, I stress once again, Slovenians and Slovenes. This will, of course, be ensured by providing them with adequate education to ensure that they have an adequate quality of life and, of course, all those things that actually guarantee a decent and dignified life. Of course, these are important macroeconomic indicators, which we have also talked about, are of course important because future generations will not pay interest on us fathers and grandfathers, so that they can actually live from their work and can actually compete, of course, to live with dignity. They should therefore be given a competitive environment, a competitive environment towards other countries, to the European Union, to global countries. And this competitive environment, of course, implies, I will say, appropriate partial policies such as tax policy, financial policy, environmental policy and so on, the overall economic policy. But this, all of these, these results of these policies must reflect on the quality of life. There is nothing to help us if we have a gross social product growth of 3, 4 or 5% if this is not known about quality of life. We have this today, and people just don't know it in their pockets. Nothing helps if we have an adequate unemployment index if they leave each year [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Eight thousand people abroad. If there are 21, 22,000 people in neighbouring Austria, 11,000 have already moved in recent years. In short, today we are talking about the future, the future of the country and, of course, the future of the Slovenes and the Slovenians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u7	The proposal for a recommendation is 13. 3. 2018 discussed by the Committee on the Economy. Since the Committee did not adopt parts of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the president of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Mark Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u8	Good afternoon. Greetings, Minister, Ministers, Secretary of State and everyone else in the Chamber. Therefore, the Proposal for a Recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the future of Slovenia was addressed by the Committee on the Economy at its 56th emergency meeting, 13. 3., like a mother's working body. In addition to the proposal for a recommendation, the Committee was presented with the following material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government. The qualified proposer has not tabled any amendments to the proposal. At the meeting, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that the amendments to the proposal for a recommendation had not been tabled and the comments of the services in the written opinion to each article had not been corrected. As part of the presentation of the written opinion by the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained that the Government is aware of the challenges facing Slovenia and is also addressing them and proposing solutions. He explained that the Government has taken a number of measures to address current and future challenges and their effects are reflected in improving key socio-economic indicators and competitiveness. In doing so, it highlighted in particular the improvement in the labour market, economic growth, liquidity growth, lower borrowing and the gradual elimination of crisis measures in the area of transfers, wages and pensions. He also highlighted the fact that the European Commission recently found in the public report that Slovenia had finally eliminated macroeconomic imbalances. The Secretary of State further identified the applicant under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and presented the measures taken by the Ministry to improve the legislative and business environment and increase competitiveness. The meeting was also attended by the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, who identified himself as a candidate with the powers of this Ministry and presented in detail the measures taken by the Government in this area. In the course of the discussion, the representative of the proposer stressed the importance of the proposed recommendation to encourage faster action and adoption of urgent reforms in certain areas. In the debate, individual debaters felt that the Government had not implemented the necessary measures and fundamental reforms in some key areas. On the contrary, individual members of the Committee considered that the work of the Government had been successful and highlighted some successful government projects. The debate also expressed the view that all governments, in addition to economic growth, should pursue other objectives such as improving the quality of life, reducing social inequalities and providing jobs and higher added value. After the discussion was concluded, the Committee, in accordance with the vote on all parts of the proposal, recommended and did not adopt it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u9	For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u10	Thank you, President. Dear Members and Members, Ministers and Ministers, Secretary of State! Slovenia, like all other countries, is constantly facing important challenges that need answers and solutions from each and every time authority, both enforceable and legislative. It is also very close to my view that policy deals with politics, as I understand it, with long-term planning and not just with politics in terms of the fight for power. Of course, the government is aware of these and many other challenges, and not least, they are addressed all the time. It has so far drawn up many solutions, and many of you have also supported Members in the legislative process. The applicant also cites some of the challenges in his work, and I can respond to them in a very short time. The high public debt mentioned by this Government is significantly decreasing, of course, given the growth of gross domestic product, but above all it is important that our companies are in a significantly better condition, that funds are allocated to development and not just to ownership, as was the practice in the past. Of course, we will never be satisfied with the business environment, but we are gradually improving it through systematic measures, which also shows an improvement in international competitiveness. We systematically collect, implement and monitor a number of measures to improve the business environment, which have also been presented to the public through concrete assessments and concrete calculations. Our health services are among the most accessible among the OECD countries, and everyone is also well aware of the efforts made by this Government to improve the functioning and rational health system, which will not end and it is right not to end. Investments in infrastructure, science, community income, health care, many other areas that are crucial to the welfare of citizens and, finally, wage increases in both the private and public sectors. Pensions are also gradually increasing and the already adopted pension reform is producing results, and certainly an even more intense response to worrying demographic trends will be necessary in the future. In the field of tax burdens, the first steps towards restructuring the tax burden have been taken and will also be necessary to continue. Foreign investors with very important investments show that our business environment can offer all the conditions for a successful operation, even the technologically most demanding companies. The services of the wider public sector are followed by increased demand, and the stronger public administration maintains a sustainable and comparable scope with other countries as well. A strategy for the development of public administration and prepared laws in the field of wages and the service system has been adopted, which unfortunately we have not been able to obtain agreement from the trade unions in order to improve the efficiency of the public sector. However, with extremely difficult projects in the field of information technology, real estate management, public procurement and many other areas, we have created more than 10 million savings and improved the functioning of some key state support systems in the long term. At the very transparency of the operation, however, according to international measurements from the pure tail of the scale, we got through among the so-called. There is certainly a need for improvements in the labour market, but for which consensus will have to be reached between all social groups, however, it is essential that employment improve radically. Family benefits and social transfers, despite favourable economic conditions, are increasing, thus mitigating the sufferings of the most vulnerable. The new space legislation is ahead of you. The judicial backlog has been halved and many improvements have been made to the entire justice system, which will also increase confidence in the justice system in the long term. It could also include a number of activities of this government and the National Assembly, in the direction of improving the public system. Slovenia's exemption from the European Commission's supervision in the area of macroeconomic imbalances also shows that we have gained the confidence of the international community, that we can manage the country as a whole with the care of a good host. We have finally achieved a state where we consume as much as we actually create. This is also supported by significantly improved rankings on a number of scales, international comparisons, both in terms of business environment, investment attractiveness, transparency and more frequently mentioned, including comparisons in the field of quality of life in our country. In the reference to this meeting, the proposer wanted to draw attention in particular to the problems we are facing, and, as has already been said, the response of this Government is more than clear that we are not only aware but also specifically addressing all the problems that we are facing, but we certainly cannot say that we have also miraculously solved all the problems within the mandate of this government. But after all this, somehow I cannot get rid of the feeling that we are looking at our country and the work of this government from two completely different angles of view. We are recognized in the international space as a success story. A country that is rapidly developing and rapidly modernising, a country with stable and healthy economic growth. In the home environment, however, as a country where everything is wrong and has more and more problems. I have always been an advocate of facts and arguments, so I trust these objective indicators, which generally confirm that we are working well, within the scope and readiness to participate in key systemic changes. That is why this meeting is a welcome basis for discussion on the efforts of this government and the basis for the efforts of future governments, but of course it cannot solve all problems overnight, so we will also face them in the future. On the other hand, we do not believe that the proposed recommendations, as has already been identified, are necessary, as we are actively addressing all the challenges now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u11	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr. Franc Jurša has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to the ministerial assembly, of course also to our Members and Members and, of course, others who accompany us in the Chamber. Respectable. Today's current emergency meeting has been very conveniently devoted to taxpayers' money to improve their political programmes, free advertising, and free time. So somehow we can calmly hold today's debate. Interpellation against the coalition, which we can now call a former coalition, was obviously expected to save the country in the last minutes of this mandate. Amendments to the reforms should be made by the government through and through, of course, hand-to-hand, in the face of time constraints and the public's belief that everything is in vain and that something needs to be done under urgent action. We believe that the public still has the sense to see for itself that the proponents, with the recommendations proposed, are not offering a solution in their favour, but are agilely exploiting their social sensitivity, just to collect pre-election political points. Yes, the political struggle is at its peak, even if we look at the resignation of the Prime Minister. The fact that Slovenia is not able to be part of the recovery of economic growth is not true, in this light, many austerity measures that have been frozen so far have been removed, but to live in the belief that economic growth will grow magically overnight is pointless or can also be said to be a fairy tale. Do finances take precedence over the social distress of an individual? Certainly not, but they can easily put us on the real ground and put us ahead of the fact that it is a matter of deciding on urgent legislative proposals or deciding on the priority of this or that government, regardless of which, in particular, it is the responsibility of individual voters. The reference to negative demographic trends is so general that there is no exception for the whole of Europe and Slovenia. Population is getting old, it is a fact that cannot be disputed and that we do not have too much influence, how we will ensure that pensioners have a decent pension and a quality life of retirement days, and it is always the priority of our parliamentary group or our party, which, of course, we will not give up in the future. And in this mandate we have done a great deal, we have stopped the negative trend of falling pensions, after many years the pensions have been harmonised, even twice a year. It's obvious that it's just a symbolic pair of euros, and we don't buy two packets of ice cream. You're the majority of pensioners so far. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u13	May I have some peace, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u14	She couldn't afford the basic necessities of life, let alone a loaf of ice cream. More than just ice cream can be added to the amount of regress paid this year, which will also be given to all pensioners. And that is not why we did not need a petition for pensioners, as some imagine, because the regression was also paid in the year when the said faces, so-called supporters, were not close. In order to remind us how to act when it comes to pensioners, individual pensioners under the slogans are only advertised in the pre-election period, and everyone has pressed the button to create the 2012 pension reform, and I can personally say on behalf of the group that this reform is not as bad as some want to present it. What effects still apply today, so some spit in their own bowl. In addition to the ageing population, we are also facing a still high rate of poverty under which the very elderly fall, in the Desus Group as a response to the challenges, we offer a number of concrete legal solutions, the correction of the wrongs of pensioners, the raising of minimum pensions, higher widow's pensions and so on. Although the recommendations already say in the title that it is the future of Slovenia, when reading these graves a few sentences of explanation is very quickly getting the feeling that it is only obvious to go back. The answers to these, however, represent good points for writing political programmes, perhaps there is or even a copy of any idea to table a bill, as if we do not have enough of them already. In the Desus Group we are able to look to the future for future generations. But it was precisely out of concern for the sustainability of the pension fund in the long run that we also tabled a proposal for a law on the reserve demographic fund. We could discuss each point separately, but those who follow our work will also recognize the quality of the measures taken so far. Finally, we have before us a wide-ranging opinion from the Government, which very clearly summarises all activities so far within a given sector. We don't want to do any of the illusions about how everything is in the flowers, under the slogans, and that we have been the best coalition ever. We don't mean that by any means. Of course, there are many opportunities for progress. We can always be a little better, sometimes practice shows some drawbacks that we have not failed at the start. The most bitter taste will remain the unmanaged health reform, which will require a great deal of effort in the next term. We have tried our best, but we cannot sign under all the above-mentioned indications of the applicants of this extraordinary meeting, which would mean that we have slept through the entire mandate, which is far from reality, far from logic. The European Commission's latest report is very strong evidence that Slovenia is on the right track to recover the economy as it has emerged from the macroeconomic balance process. From all of the above proposals, we have rejected the recommendation already on the home working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u15	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, representatives of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I must thank the President of the National Assembly for having convened this meeting today. Why? Because we have considered a very important report on macroeconomic imbalances or imbalances in the morning, a report by the European Commission, and I must say that there has been an extremely good debate on the European Union's Affairs Committee, among other things, because we are at a pre-election time that those parties who do not have or do not yet have an electoral programme are the challenges that need to be addressed as soon as possible. I would like to continue this debate in a slightly calmer tone, not to judge the work of the Government in this, this meeting, it is not an inventory of this government, although the dust rose on Wednesday at 10 p.m., but ladies and gentlemen, before this dust falls, we will be as a policy, as politicians, and because politics is a work for the common good, we must give answers for the future of our citizens and citizens. And from New Slovenia, you will not hear from anyone from New Slovenia that the work of this government has sucked. That everything was wrong. You won't hear it from us, and you won't hear it. There are things that are good, so I started with this report and I am pleased, and we in New Slovenia are happy that the country has succeeded in finding that we have actually removed measures for Slovenia, measures for macroeconomic imbalances. But, of course, there are also challenges written here, which, who, if not politics, must give answers. To be comforted that the entire population of the European Union is ageing and that, of course, it is also ageing in Slovenian and what is. That's not an answer. Slovenian society is the fastest in the European Union, and this is a very big fiscal problem for this country. And, ladies and gentlemen, in New Slovenia we would really like to discuss the future today, to give answers to what Slovenia should be like in 2030. And as a result of the situation and situation in the Republic of Slovenia and the apathy of discouragement and then the discontent that spread among its inhabitants of Nova Slovenija notes that for the construction of a normal, better Slovenia, we urgently need, for the first time, a just home. We have solutions and we've been preparing for some coalition for development or whatever it is that will name these solutions in the future, face them. So we have solutions for modernising justice, for better job security and for greater responsibility for future generations. We have to be equal before the law. We want to give people their dignity and sense of belonging back to their country. Secondly, we need a strong economy. We have solutions for higher wages. For higher wages for all not only higher salaries in the public sector. We'll cut taxes, cut red tape and re-education. Primary students, those who first crossed the threshold of the elementary school last fall will be doing professions that we do not know today. This is a major challenge for the education system. More jobs will make it possible for more people to live better. The best social policy is a strong multi-job economy, with high-value jobs and therefore with high wages. And thirdly, we need, we urgently need a safe life. If ever, right now, security is an extremely important value. We have solutions to modernise the health and pension system. We support the family and culture of life, we are to strengthen general security. Slovenians and Slovenians must be saved from the constant fear of survival and the uncertain future of their children. We are satisfied and we are only grateful to the economic sector for having record economic growth. We have record economic growth. Of course, we must honestly tell citizens and citizens about the debt sector of the country that the debt of the sector is indeed declining relatively in relation to gross domestic product. But when we get to the store we don't pay with percentages of GDP we pay with euros, with bills, with coins, with payment cards. That is why we need to operate here with absolute numbers when we talk about the debt of the state sector. And if I compare the debt of the country sector in the third quarter of 2014, when this government took place and compared to the third quarter of last year, I see that the debt of the sector was increased by EUR 4.4 billion. There is probably no other way, experts from the Ministry of Finance will say, but almost half of the annual state budget has increased the debt of the state sector. And of course, when we talk about the unemployed, the number of employees and so on, then we also have to look at the trends we have, the number of active people, the number of employees. And if we look at December 2008, which was valid for the year before the crisis and December 2017, then we see that in 2008, at the end of the year, it worked, there were more than 24 thousand more employees than last year. All of these are challenges that require policy responsibility. Which require responsible policy solutions. And I regret, indeed, that the Committee on the Economy did not, in fact, have an understanding on the part of the coalition at the time, yes, then the coalitions, that virtually all our recommendations were rejected. I'm sorry. And here it would have been possible to find one of the smallest common denominators on which to build one of the next compositions of the National Assembly and the next government. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u17	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honorable Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The title of today's meeting of the National Assembly, the recommendations of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the future, is quite promising. Unfortunately, the view of the proposalr's bench already means and says that the obvious majority of them live in another reality or in the past and that they are not really interested in today's meeting because they themselves are also aware of what it is intended for. But it will, so at the end of the day, we will also do these last and classic right-wing pre-election tricks. So, if I exclude the fact that elections are waiting for us over a good or bad 2 months, and if I miss the realization that we will be listening today mainly to flat-rate assessments of what this is and what the previous governments have done, when we miss out mostly on the harm of people on the right hand side, we can probably also focus on the content of the recommendations, which are written on only 5 pages, which is even less than the scope of the strategy on the future of Slovenia, to which it has stumbled in recent months so large or quite a good part of Slovenian policy. And of course, as I have found at the outset, the recommendations do not begin with what we need in the future, but with an explanation and discussion of how wrong it was in the past economic policy, and what has not been done in the past 25 years, how our economic and social model is unsustainable and – as with the radical right hand – a list of everything that threatens us existently, potential and unrealistically. Then there is an assessment of the situation and a short diagnosis that the Government is unable to deal with key threats and a short list of new recommendations. The latter, of course, briefly and flatly refer to everything from health, justice, pensions, labour law, construction legislation, public administration, education, foreign policy, security. They are written in 10 points and are accompanied, despite very different content, by some basic right-hand postulates on the SDS and New Slovenia side, which of course never diminish, namely modernisation, reform, re-modernisation, and simplification and another simplification and efficiency and order. Quick recipe, how we're going to solve everything in a moment with the feeling that there's a magic wand. Within a few months, dear citizens and citizens, colleagues and colleagues, everything will be different and everything will be resolved. If we had not seen this before, or had not seen it many times before, probably no one can list it anymore, perhaps one of us would still believe it, especially if we did not know what such measures of modernisation, reform and simplification carried out by the Slovenian right will ultimately mean to our people. A hint of the day, never a good thing. So our proposalr's serious document actually works more than a wish list. The modernisation they are proposing is a cheap pre-election trick with which the National Assembly as a legislator should not be involved if you ask us. Why? Because in a month, perhaps sooner, we will be entering an official election campaign, where it will be the place for us to face our programmes to allow citizens and citizens to comment on what is right and which direction of this country is the right and precise strategy on the basis of what people will say in the elections, the next coalition, whatever it will be, will write. The fact that the proposer expects, inter alia, that in the last month of his mandate, the programme and activities to achieve their objectives will be written by the Government, which is now in the process of leaving or by the President of the Government, who is resigning, of course, can be understood primarily as a hindrance, but of course the legitimate orientation of the opposition, bearing in mind that such a wish list at the stage of the mandate we are in, is no longer feasible. Sometimes things are simple and enough to look at the calendar. Today and on this occasion this is a given fact. So if anyone thinks that by creating a reality show they will win, which of course they have every right to, and that they will organise this in the sighs of this mandate in the National Assembly, it is perfectly legitimate. But we are convinced by the Social Democrats that participating in these tragic extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly is not our task, not in this place at the very least at this time. Finally, people have chosen us not only to think twice about what we will do and accept in the last minutes of this assembly, especially in the light of the fact that we really do not need to do any damage at the last moment, just because it may be pleasing. We will therefore be able to do our best in the National Assembly if we pay attention in the last session to those measures that are good, effective, refined, and even if they are not the most populist and that is why they will not be appropriate and the best minutes in the media. Finally, it is also a model by which serious and responsible democracy should work. So respectable colleagues and colleagues! As has already been said, behind simplifications, modernisations and reforms of the right, there is usually less solidarity, less egalitarianism and actually less freedom for people. We are such a country and a country based on fear, of course we do not hold and we do not want and therefore we are not and will not support the recommendations that are before you. However, it is the legitimate right of everyone and it is obvious that with the resignation of President of the Government, from this moment forward, we each try to present in our own way what people will decide and what will be the basis in about three months for the real strategy and vision of Slovenia's future, which will be shown by the next coalition treaty and I sincerely hope that it will be maintained. [[?]] Heart, honest work and fair pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u19	The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u20	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. A country such a strategy today in Mladina was written by Bogomir Kovac in his comments on the government's strategy for the development of Slovenia 2013. It is obvious to the government that the strategy does not go beyond self-confidence, but notes that society is ageing, that power in the world is moving towards Asia, that the atmosphere is warming up, that public debt is high, etc., and solutions are too short. In this sense, because the Government, unfortunately this Government has never had a medium-term or long-term development strategy, a debate on the future and what we will do in the next ten years, not just tomorrow or until the elections, we absolutely need it. Unfortunately, today's proposal goes far beyond the flat-rate definition of some problems that do not exceed three-quarters of a page in the reference and their proposals are nothing more than a pre-election act of the united right wrapped in euphemisms by which it packs old hard neo-liberal measures into some modern envelopes with digital bows. The euphemisms, that is, the attempts to avoid the meaning of words are so expressive, strong and doubtful that they resemble the famous Orwell two opinions. If I take a few examples, for example, the right hand suggests to the government that it prepare a modernisation of the health system. Where they point out that the money will actually follow the patient, that is, we will no longer be paying into a single public health insurance company, but will each choose their own private, so modernising the healthcare system is nothing more than privatising the health insurance in the right language. Another example, suggest a similar modernisation of the pension system, which is intended to ensure permanent sustainability, what exactly do they propose? That the public pension fund, which now collects contributions and makes pensions split into two parts, so that one part, instead of being transferred, invests these contributions around and then pays pensions out of capital dividends. It sounds okay, we're going to elevate the contributions, but see what happens? When the first crisis comes, the American case is eloquent, nearly 50 million people have thus lost their pensions. Therefore, ensuring permanent sustainability through the modernisation of the pension system in the right language is only an exposure of the pension system to direct risks in the financial markets. Then, in a similar manner, the applicants propose simplifying labour law by ensuring flexibility and stressing job security. But here, in fact, it is not necessary to conclude too much, at least NSI, I have not yet read the SDS program, but NSI has been very clear in the program where it measures, and I quote: “The part of the program, which is equally addressed, is easier to forgive.” So when the right says safe employment, he means easier forgiveness. Orwellovsko is also the starting point of the programme itself, and there the proponents note that Slovenia did not expect the crisis in 2008 due to the graduate development before the crisis and so on. But did the applicants forget who was in power from 2004 to 2008? Yes, it is the NSI and the SDS who are proposing this meeting today. What did you do then? They substantially reduced taxes on capital, abolished taxes on paid wages, paid tax exemptions, and what happened after the crisis? Logically, there were enough tax contributions in the conjuncture, but when the crisis struck, they declined radically and then had to be saved, owed, reduced pensions, social assistance and so on. And now 10 years later, what does the motioner suggest? Yeah, exactly what they did back then. Let's look at their second point, they say relief, tax relief. So once again, after another lost decade at the peak of the cyclical cycle, we would be driven into a new crisis where we will have to do the same as we have done in the last 10 years, by all of us being aware of today's public debt and we will find ourselves in another lost decade. This is the future offered by the right. To avoid thinking that I made this up, I will quote Frančko Drenovac, an economist who works on the Bank of Slovenia and wrote in the last Saturday’s annex: “The huge reduction in capital taxes between 2005 and 2008, when public finances were balanced due to good inflows without these taxes, followed when the economy was over and public finances came into a large deficit of inevitably more cumbersome expenditure, a reduction in pensions, social protection funds, a reduction in the quality of public services, a reduction in taxation, i.e. sooner or later also brings a reduction in welfare.” It goes on to say, “One of the first rules of normal macroeconomic governance is that governments in a conjuncture must not reduce taxes, they must never, in a conjuncture, fuel themselves to fire and cause overheating and, look out, an early cycle downturn. A surplus must be created in the context of the conjuncture.” I hope you understand this point. Slovenia, therefore, has to go the other way in the future, as suggested by the right. An outdated, meticulous, neoliberal policy, even if it is even more wrapped up in some modern beauty-telling, must be rejected at the dump of history and, at the same time, the concept of a right-wing country. For the right-hand side sees the state as a bar of development, as a burden of entrepreneurs, as someone who just has to pay taxes, but in reality it is a reverse. The country is a financier and a development guide, if it is correctly set up, so the following things need to be done I will just define myself to the points proposed by the right. [[…]] First, with regard to taxes, there is no way to reduce taxes at the top of the cycle, but to consider how to capture more developed countries after tax revenues, such as Austria. [[…]] I don't know, in Slovenia, we collect 37% of GDP with tax inflows, and Austria next door is 43. This difference, 6% in Austria, means that development policies and social sub-systems are substantially more cost-effective. Where are our reserves? Reserves are mainly for capital and property taxes, where we are on Europe's tail and should be considered at present. This way we can get money for key policies. We can get money for housing policy, which has been inadequate for 25 years in this country, and the result is to pay in the centre of Ljubljana for, I don't know, 60 square apartments over 200 000 euros. No wonder young people move to these countries if the other room or balcony has become superstandard. It is necessary to provide through public finances money for housing policy and finally to drive housing. Secondly, sustainable mobility must be taken care of. We've talked about this a lot. I don't know why people who drive to work from Celje or Maribor should be on the Stairway every day for an hour or more. If you go to one of the neighboring countries, you can take a train to work in the morning, eased by coffee and newspapers from one city to another. This should also be the goal of Slovenia, both ecological and mobility. Health care Not the further privatisation of health insurance, but the abolition of that insurance which is already private. [[…]] That's complementary. As a result, 50 million euros are lost each year in insurance companies and it is high time to do what the Government has failed in this mandate. It's about getting that money into health care. At the same time, it is not the further privatisation of health care, but the restriction of the colon system. So, doctors who are more or less formally employed in the public sector in the morning, while energy is directed towards additional earnings in their private clinics this afternoon. This needs to be limited and ensured that they do what they are paid from public finances. It is necessary to arrange a public health procurement agency to eradicate corruption. Pensions If we provide a sufficient tax base, I have previously described in some way, we can really start talking about what the applicant says he would like to have - €617 minimum pension. [[…]] So that no pensioner would fall below the poverty risk threshold. Two thirds of pensioners are now placed under the poverty risk threshold. The reason is two: En is a disgraceful formula of 0.57 pensions according to the previous salary, and the other is, of course, a public financial one. [[…]] However, real development needs to be ensured that Slovenia catches up with other European countries after financing basic social subsystems, public funding for research and science. We are here on the tail of the European Union. If I'm not mistaken, there's only Slovakia behind us. We need to fund a culture that is, say, our film program. Even the countries where the right hand likes to be imitated, look at Poland, it is doing so seriously. But for all of this, dear colleagues, we need public money, we need to think about how the country does not present it as the right represents it, as a colossal development, but as an institution that cares for common prosperity, which for the benefit of all of us collects taxes and directs them in line with development and social objectives, this is the way to development, and this should be the starting point for the next 10, 20, 30 years. This way we will someday join the most developed club if we take into account what the right is proposing today, but we will go the other way, to those countries that did not have a major transition, but shock therapy at the start of the transition to capitalism, and look at Romania and Bulgaria what successful societies are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u21	The text is by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, all those who are still following this meeting. In terms of debates and materials, we see that we are already deeply involved in the electoral campaign. What do you call it? Lots of laws by emergency procedure and, of course, extraordinary sessions. Laws by emergency procedure to hide how nothing has been done so far and extraordinary meetings to be used for pre-election purposes. Today we are considering recommendations to be addressed to the government regarding the future of Slovenia. Proposed topics, of course, with addresses and all of us can agree. However, we have discussed this a lot and have pointed out the problems we are facing. Under the line, we can say that this is an abuse of the National Assembly for propaganda purposes. What's the point? Did the proponents really think that in this short period of time the government would be following the recommendations in this short period of time if it acted corruptly both in terms of the use of finance and in terms of project management and staffing? That she's going to make an order in health care? To prepare the country for demographic change? To manage the property in a non-corruptive and for the benefit of the citizens? To set up a pay system based on union statements? To sell the New Ljubljana Bank, according to commitments. To take care of security, despite the words of the Owl, despite the words of the police and the conditions of the army. And to continue to ignore the judgments of the Constitutional Court. Here we are. Here is the state of Slovenia. Now, responsible by the National Assembly and political parties, it would be that in the time remaining to choose those laws that are essential for a better life of citizens and are adopted and put into practice by these laws. Not that the National Assembly is used for propaganda purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u23	I'm just saying, by emergency procedure, we have a bunch of one law that's so full right now, and we have three on hold. I know. You were going to say short notice, yeah. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Andreja Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u24	Mr. President, the Council of Ministers. Today's extraordinary meeting is of the same size and taste as the opposition, the SDS and NSI have hand in hand united in the position that the season of empty promises must be opened and people informed that the system is failing and is collapsing, only this time that part of the opposition will sell its truth to the citizens in the form of recommendations to the Government. Don't worry, citizens and ravians, nothing in the country is going down, only the elections are coming. Of course, in the SMC, we would like to be honest about the purpose of the applicants and, at least once together, open a constructive debate on development policy for our people. But it is unlikely that today, at least of all of you, ladies and gentlemen, who were not able to find a coalition consensus four years ago, but only to draw the country out of the crisis and prepare a follow-up to new development policies. That is why it is so much more difficult to understand the purpose of today's recommendations, through which you tell us in the same breath that all the achievements in this mandate have come from themselves, while at the same time proposing a thorough reform of everything you have destroyed in the past. However, some in this National Assembly have helped us to create a system that will work better for all citizens and citizens. Some of you read about the introduction of sent-off laws and at the same time deceive people into believing that the laws that have been tabled have irresistible financial consequences. You probably thought that a few months before the elections, people should not be impressed that some things could still change in the right direction, but within the coalition we have so many times remained alone in our efforts to accept what is right and not what is right or wrong with some of the chosen ones. But the responsibility lies with all of us who have been chosen. Responsibilities both for the adoption of laws, including the non-admission of laws that have encountered too many obstacles, especially in the field of health. Today, respectable citizens and citizens will listen to monologues from the archives of the promise of the right. For for some in this room, the words spoken remain the only horse of parade. We have not supported the recommendations made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the future of Slovenia in the SMC. Not only because they are meaningless, but mainly because they do not contain suggestions on how to create more. It would be much better for the applicant to make only a data-supported recommendation, a vision, information on who in society would be affected by such a measure and how positive effects are foreseen. The recommendation in terms of everything needs to be changed is not really the issue to be discussed, but at least the way to come to the smart conclusions that citizens have long been waiting for us. In spite of everything in the SMC, we will present as many measures as we can take to ensure that Slovenia can today boast the third highest economic growth in the European Union for the lowest unemployment since 2009, with a balanced budget for the first time in ten years. Believe it or not, it is not the magic fairy who has placed us in all these places.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u25	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Yes, it is true why we should talk about the future of Slovenia, which we will all be happy in 2050 anyway. In the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, of course, we support the recommendations made by the Government regarding the future of Slovenia and we really do not understand how coalition Members could have spoken against the decisions we have proposed, which means, of course, that you are in the SMC, SD and Desus against modernising the health system in a way that detects, punishes and prevents the flow of money for the sake of corruption. Against eliminating the waiting types, against reducing the tax and contribution burden on income from work and consequently increasing the net salaries of employees, against developing a judicial reform to ensure that the rules of the game for all citizens are equal, against the pension system that will provide higher and more decent pensions, against simplifying labour law, against simplifying building legislation in a way that applicants can reach a building permit in 60 days, against modernisation of public administration, against more effective family policy, against improving the quality of education and against making order in the field of foreign and security policy. SMC, SD and Desus are against everything we've said. I hope the citizens are aware of this. Today we are talking about the future of Slovenia. Unfortunately, in Slovenia we can't take advantage of the potentials we have. Not in the potential of Slovenia, but not in the potential of our citizens. We must, of course, enable citizens to develop their potentials, not to interfere with their lives, either through the educational system or later through bureaucratic obstacles to the public apparatus. The environment in which we live depends on how innovative individuals can be, more innovation means more progress in the first place for an individual, of course, then this means progress for his family, and as a result this means progress for society as a whole. Unfortunately, the Government of Mir Cerar did not realize that it was necessary to create and share first. She did not realize that without creation there is no solidarity, there is no social, there is no health, no education and so on. She did not even realize that higher productivity in the economy resulted in higher wages, both for those in the private sector and for those in the public sector. All of this, of course, means more solidarity in society and also means more investment by the state. Where are the reasons for the convening of an extraordinary meeting on the future of Slovenia? In worrying indicators in the field of demographics, public debt and the business environment. Let us first look at the situation in the field of demography; the Slovenian society is growing old, which means increasing pressure on health care and pensions. The health situation is catastrophic and has only deteriorated in this government's mandate. Pensions do not allow a pensioner to live a life worth living. On the other hand, the OECD has long been reminding us of too long-term unemployment and the fact that only 35% of those between 55 and 64 years of age are employed in Slovenia. We have the lowest employment rate of this age group among all countries in the European Union. In Germany, there are about 70% of employees in this age group, 45% in Austria and even 80% of the population in Sweden. Family is the basic cell of society, of course the future of the nation depends on the family, so it is so important that we have a proper family policy in the country, and we all mix social policy too often with family policy, which is of course completely wrong. The state must do everything in its power to have a long-term impact on the increase in fertility, which is extremely low in Slovenia. On average, only 1.5 children per mother. The fact that some 15,000 people leave Slovenia annually is also worrying about demographics. It is the majority of the population who are up to 40 years of age and under-educated while many come to us, who are merely extra burdensome and do not invest so much in the budget. From Slovenia, the majority of the population moved to neighbouring Austria, 27% followed by Germany by 20%. The largest percentage of Bosnia's citizens come to us, which means 35%. The state of public debt is also worrying. In a very short period of time, our debt grew dramatically. If we were in charge of about 22% of GDP in 2008, we are now in charge of about 80%. If we look at this in numbers, it means that from 8 billion euros in debt in 2008 we came to 33 billion euros in 2017. In nine years, public debt has grown by as much as EUR 24 billion. The dizzying sums that citizens probably cannot imagine. As a result, due to our high debt, we pay around €900 million a year for interest alone, which means about 10% of what we receive in the budget each year. It is difficult to imagine what could be done for this money in Slovenia, how much more consistent our regional development could be, or how better could road infrastructure or perhaps information infrastructure in Slovenia where it is not properly regulated. That the business environment is rigid, bureaucratic, uncompetitive, we have been alerting for a long time. In 2017, we had an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on the topic of de-de-barcation, where we gathered about 100 proposals for simplification by the economy, farmers and citizens. They were all united. In Slovenia we have too many red tape, we have too many procedures, and too many times it happens that state authorities do not respect deadlines, while on the other hand citizens have to respect this hand, otherwise they are very quickly punished. On many scales Slovenia reaches extremely bad cities. The key problem is just too much regulation, too many regulations and too long procedures. In April 2017, we exceeded 20 000 in the number of laws and regulations. Despite the warning of the excessive number, you have continued with this trend and have produced in the last 11 months an additional 320 new laws and regulations. In Slovenia, unfortunately, we do not know how to exploit the potentials we have, which means that we are being overtaken by the countries of the Visegrajska Group and caught up with the Baltic Group countries, which in the past had a significantly worse economic situation, from a significantly worse source than the country of Slovenia. Let's take a look at the case. Reaching the EU average by purchasing power: in 2008 we reached 89% of the EU average, in 2016 only 83%. For example, if we look at the Czech Republic, the Czech Republic reached 81% in 2008 and 88% in 2016. Even though we have seen encouraging data on economic recovery in recent times, even though unemployment is declining, we are not falling behind developed European countries. Why is that? Because our economic activity is not supported by an increase in productivity. Because the number of employees in the economy is still significantly too low, we still have about 70,000 fewer employees in the private sector than in the pre-crisis period. Because the resources from the state budget are allocated more to current expenditure and very to a minimum for investments, which, last but not least, are driving growth and driving the development of Slovenia. We allocate 30% less to investments than we committed in 2007. Because we have an over-taxed job, and with the development staff, we come to 50% of our salary very quickly, which is, of course, unacceptable and, therefore, as a country, we are not competitive. In Slovenia we have significantly greater potential for economic growth and new jobs, especially for those jobs that bring us higher added value for better paid jobs. All that needs to be done is to hear what our economy tells us, not least to hear our farmers and to hear the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The unfriendly and disstimulating business environment inhibits growth and the development of entrepreneurship, but it is necessary to be aware that only economic growth can be a basis of lasting prosperity for the country and for citizens. That is why we need an environment in which good work, good governance, where innovation, talent, self-initiativeism are rewarded and, of course, then the generator of new value and of course the need for new jobs. With unnecessary, bureaucratic procedures, however, we burden individuals, burden entrepreneurs. And that, of course, has to be done. We have not, in the period of time, adopted any necessary reform, not in the field of health, not in the field of education, not in the field of justice, the labour market, not in the field of family policy, pensions, there have been no tax burdens, on the contrary, we have not reduced public debt, we have not reduced red tape. Slovenia, as has already said, has significantly greater potential for economic growth and new jobs, of course if we knew the current favourable situation in our key international markets to back up with appropriate domestic measures and would make the necessary reforms where they are needed during this period. This could significantly reduce the development backlog for developed European countries. As I have pointed out in the introduction, we support the proposed reports concerning the future of Slovenia in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u27	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. The word has, yes, in this case, I am used as a representative of the proposer has the word mag. Branko Grimes. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u28	Thank you, everyone. That's a good-bye! Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, dear Levicans, do you listen to something like this when you speak? You've done great praises to your Government and the ruling coalition, but most of all, its success is told by the fact that you have done so the day after your Government's President's irrevocable resignation, the proudness of an endless series of mistakes, due to failures, because of everything your Government has done wrong. This is the best answer to your debates, where, in fact, it was the only quality to congratulate you, to say all this and to become serious. As far as economic growth is concerned. Economic growth, ladies and gentlemen, is not due to your Government, but it is proof of the permanence of the Slovenian economy, the quality of Slovenian entrepreneurs, mainly related to exports, to German and some other neighbouring markets, and because there is economic growth, this was very well known with a certain delay in Slovenia. Your Government does not have much with this, but your Government has very much, with excessive tax duties, but of course with the burdens of all kinds, because you have made them up in front of you, with various solutions such as the tax box and similar, which have been carried out in such a way as to say just as an example, the Festival of Chocolate in Radovljica has always had foreign exhibitors to develop business contacts, cooperation, economic opportunities. When you introduced the tax registers and when the foreigners found out how they were now concerned, they all cancelled their cooperation at the next fair and went to economic opportunities. When we listened to the offering of solutions that were intended to benefit Slovenia and, of course, offered between the lines everything possible to belong to another place and time, the space that proved to be a failure not only here, but everywhere in the world, the person hesitated to ask whether this whole game was with the retreating Mr. Cerar and with Pahor's announcement that he would shorten the mandate to be some as early elections, just to be 27th, so that the last pre-election event of all the lefties in Slovenia would be the one to the victims of the living walled girls in the grave pit, especially until the victims of the war for Slovenia's infinitely pitill be the infamous totalitarian orgy, I will be wearing the red star Svetlana Makarovic, 25. in Ljubljana, the last pre-election event of the leftists in Slovenia. This, of course, is not something on which to build Slovenia forward and listen a little. What was actually the common denominator of all left-wingers in the last weeks when you were preparing the first election offer. You all swore not to cooperate with the SDS. Not only are you here, but this was particularly stressed by someone else, including, say, Marjan Sarec explained this in Austria, saying to all leftists that the common denominator is this, we will not cooperate with the SDS, because we should be, I don't know, extreme or something like this usually adds up. Is the actual common denominator and your offer hate the SDS, and let's put this in the context of what we are offering today, what have we actually proposed to ladies and gentlemen? In order to relieve the Slovenian economy, the offer of SDS, the offer of left-wing workers, we hate SDS. We said that the child should be, not only the value, not only the preciousness that parents are so pleased with, but also the greatest investment for the future of the Slovenian nation, that is the SDS offer, what the left-wing offer is, we hate SDS. We said, we must protect the Slovenian borders, we must protect every citizen, every citizen, give the security of Slovenia, because this is the basis of everything, this is the offer of SDS, the offer of left-wing people, we hate the SDS. We have said that cooperation must be strengthened, that all that can also strengthen economic contacts, which is the basis of development, namely the SDS offer, the supply of left-wings, we hate SDS. We said that the school should be a school for values, headed by the value of patriotism, that the school should be the one that will be taught in tradition, in the true culture of the Slovenian people, that is the offer of SDS, the response of left-wingers, the offer of left-wingers, we hate the SDS. We said to establish appropriate competition, including in health care, and above all in health care it is necessary to order the patient to be the first to receive the highest possible quality of service within a reasonable period of time, as soon as he really needs it, this is the SDS offer, the offer of left-wing workers, we hate the SDS. We said it has to be saved, it has to be concluded with this story of importing migrants, it is unacceptable what has happened, it is impossible for one foreigner to get four times the amount of taxpayers' money, as someone who spent 40 years working and building this country of Slovenia as a pensioner. Now we said, we're gonna raise pensions, we're gonna raise pensions, we're gonna raise pensions, we're gonna raise pensions, we're gonna raise pensions, we're gonna raise pensions, we're gonna raise pensions, we're gonna raise pensions, we're gonna raise pensions, we're gonna raise pensions, we're gonna raise pensions, we're gonna raise pensions, we're gonna raise pensions, we're gonna raise pensions, we're gonna raise pensions, we're gonna raise pensions, we're gonna raise pensions, we're gonna raise pensions, we're gonna raise pensions, we're gonna raise pensions, Yes, wait, people of God, now put this together, and once you really stand before the electorate, what is the choice, whether it is the choice of a greater pension, the prosperity for all, the certainty that the old values are again valued, that we appreciate and respect our homeland, we defend it to preserve the Slovenian nation, its tradition, its culture, or the choice of what leftists offer to hate the SDS. That's what we've been listening to all this time today. Ladies and gentlemen, Slovenia deserves more, Slovenia deserves security, because security is the foundation of everything, everything without security does not become worth much, nothing. Slovenia needs a better environment for economic development, we do not have to go far by example, we have offered, even here, a view of tax reliefs, flats, all that the neighbouring Austria has, we have to become for the economy, for entrepreneurs a more favourable environment than the neighbouring Austria or at least the same, comparable to Austria, then of course this future will be, the children will stay here, then they will also be ready to defend their homeland again. Children need to be raised in the right way, children need to return those values that were of origin, not only Slovenia, but also modern Europe, based on Christianity, enlightenment, to everything that is at the heart of modern European civilization, which needs to be defended. She needs to be defended today. It must be defended by defending your boundaries and setting up an environment, by restoring the will to life, by enjoying life, by creating more children, and by investing. This is what Slovenia deserves and we have offered it, and you, ladies and gentlemen, have rejected it. That says everything about us and everything about you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u29	I listened very carefully and I find that this was the first debate. But since we are tough, we also have the first procedural one. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u30	Yes, thank you for your word, chairman. Look, I'm so raised, I don't hate anyone. I don't hate Mr. Grimes either. After all, we have been on a number of business trips together, as President of Parliamentary Cooperation in the Central European Initiative, as I, as President of the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs, have been for two years. I don't agree with someone yelling at me to hate him. We live in a constitutional parliamentary democracy, that people who are professional politicians, such as Mr Tanko, who has been there for 17, 18 years, or have come to politics much earlier than I, could know and have differing views and views. Mr Grims was not present on the home work body when we discussed this. A Prekmur colleague, who usually doesn't beat like that, said you're opening up a platform for joint cooperation. While I said at the time that, as long as the SDS will lead Janša, this will probably not be possible, and this Mr Grims has also demonstrated nicely today. You can't stand it if someone thinks otherwise of you. Mr Grims, now I will go this far, you yourself told me in Minsk: “You know, because we are not actually a customer, we are a private company of one person.” I expect you to apologize to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u31	Ah Procedurally, mag. Branko Grimes. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u32	With all due respect, if you make something up, sir, because of course you want to do a circus, it's not nice and it would be good if you cancel it and apologize. Otherwise, I was talking about the relationship, and I explained at the outset what it was about — the swearing that it would not work with the SDS. [[…]] Some say that because he has such a president, what you have just justified, others say that because they are extremists, in the past you have said that only because we intimidate the public, but everything we've talked about has come true, but there's never been any excuse. All such debates, after you've gone astray, are just proof of what Nobel laureate Vaclav Havel once said: “The lie is the immortal soul of the left-handed.”
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u33	Procedurally, Dr. And then we'd be done with these procedural rounds. I ask you kindly to proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u34	Look, sir, you know I have a witness with us in Minsk for that statement. That's one. Secondly, you don't know how many times you've been hanging around here "hate, hate, hate". Thirdly, I have a very good memory. When Hanžek was still a member of the United Left, you said: “Even if Hanžek wanted to join the SDS, he would not have been accepted.” Who hates who here now? Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u35	That's enough of that. I give the floor to Mrs Ludmila Novak, from whom I really expect a real debate, and then it is time for the mags to come. Alenka Bratušek and Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u36	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. First of all, I'm gonna say I don't hate anyone, even though I've ever said I won't go to the coalition with anyone, but the reasons are different, not hate. Why did we call today's session? Look, this is possible under the rules of procedure, so I'm surprised that we're stealing tax money. We're at work and we have the same salary, whether it's today or not. It is our duty to go to meetings, to make suggestions, to discuss and if someone has told us that we have proposed an inappropriate topic, I am increasingly convinced that this topic is the best and most right one for the time being. Of course, because the elections are coming because the government has fallen apart, but we have made a proposal when the President of the Government has not yet resigned. Why is this the best time? Because we are all thinking about what we need to do in this country to make it better for our citizens to be better. And at this point, or most of the time, I don't care if a person is a citizen of the left or the right. I want to know how he will live in the future, how we will all live together in the future. And if we want to be statesmen and real politicians, not politicians, we all have to think about it together. And our proposal for recommendations is not in this sense either, but let us now criticise everything the government has done so far and the pension system, all the more so. The title of our meeting was recommended to the Government. Now which government. This government will no longer do much, but I hope that the future government will take several important steps. And why were several graphs shown at the beginning? In order to awaken not only the memory, but also the awareness that we are facing severe, difficult challenges in the future, because ageing is a problem for Europe and also for Slovenia, we know very much that the problem of long waiting periods is a major problem in Slovenia, that the more money we have given to do so does not solve the problem that the pension system is sustainable by 2020 or 2022 or how much. We don't spit on him, we have him now, but we all know we're gonna have to improve him and change him. And if some of us have seen that we have prepared too little material for this session, I recommend all of this to read our electoral programme for previous elections, for future elections, and there will be many reforms and proposals that we offer as solutions to these problems that we have identified. And that's our intention to think about it together. Unfortunately, the election campaign then focuses on a few questions, which are often not essential at all, and who will go to the coalition with whom, and God forbid, if you say so or say so. I am interested in what we will do in the future, how we will deal with these challenges. And I'm going to go to education. Education we all know how the world is spinning fast, how new technologies are coming in, how new needs are needed, how new knowledge is needed. And when I think about the teachers' sentences, I don't think that I support the sentence before the end of some term period, because it can then be blackmail, but the role of teachers in this society will have to be re-examined and better defined. For 20 years I myself have been doing this profession, so I know where the problems are, where the efforts are, and what the challenges are facing today’s teachers. And as many have pointed out, it is not just a higher salary; it is also about what kind of place a teacher has in society, what teachers face, from educational problems, to new technologies, to new challenges. And we're going to have to rethink, think about and look for solutions all the time, and that's why there's not enough politics, not one party, not one minister, but as a state. And we talk too little about that. That's why I'm saying now is the time. We are all preparing programmes, and I hope that in the end, not everything will focus on when someone promises higher pensions, but will boast of an increase in pensions by 2 ice cream caps or 3 or 4 but that we will consider that young people will be interested in paying for this pension system. What do we have to do about it? We have solutions. They may not all be right, but they are good, and we have them, and such things need to be talked about, viewed, dealt with, and sought solutions. And I hope that it won't happen to us again what I've been doing to us all the time. We are looking for a savior who will solve all Slovenian problems at once. It's always turned out that it doesn't work. I am also saying that we must look for solutions and that no one as resounding as the Olympic champion or the greatest scientist will be able to swing the hand, but we will have to take steps to find the right solutions for everyone. Lately, I've been reading fairy tales to my grandkids and then the prince comes and kisses Snow White and wakes up and lives happily ever after. Do we imagine that someone will win the election, kiss what, and things will be done. Of course, I've heard, say, President Desus repeatedly when he said reforms hurt. Let's say modernisation, improvement of systems, elimination of problems, finding new solutions, this should be those challenges, and I don't know why some coalition Members would be affected here today if we were talking about it. No one claims that this government has been working for four, almost four years or a little less. We used to work, too. We have always done our best, but we could do even better, but those fundamental changes that are necessary, which are waiting for us as challenges, have not been. There were attempts, maybe, but there weren't. And if someone has said that they have learned to rule in three, four years now, so they will solve all the problems in the next term, I believe that even those new ones have learned a lot, but we will not solve all the problems in the next term, and we are looking for a solution. That is why I hope that you do not understand or believe that this proposal for our debate is only to criticise the Government, but to point again to the challenges that we need to talk about, which we need to solve. That's the main purpose. And if we listen to people, people tell us that there are a lot of problems in different areas, and I believe that one government can't solve them all, but let's listen, we're looking for solutions. And I don't agree with that either when they say that we neoliberals, who don't know what, cut taxes and don't think about solidarity. How do we think about solidarity? But we can only be solidarity when we create the conditions so that we can create as many jobs as possible, so that as many people as possible can be employed. But we will be solidarity with those who can't work, who, despite the part of their underprivileged pension, and that we will have pensions, we must also create, pay so that we can share them. So let us take this debate, today, in this sense, to seek our better future and, given that only a few more meetings are to be spent together, I hope that we will be more witty than a moody or impatient one another.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u37	Once again, the representative of the proposer, Mag. Matthew Tonin, prepare the mags. Alenka Bratušek, this still applies, although it is most likely not, and Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u38	I listened carefully to the presentations of the parliamentary groups and you will not believe how uncomfortable the coalition MPs felt. That's amazing. I don't understand because their government has given a response report and on these recommendations for a really long time, 80 pages. I have never seen such a thing in this mandate that the Government would give an opinion, recommendations or laws to 80 pages of a response report. That's a great thing. I do not criticize the Government, but I am surprised that the coalition Members do not want to use this content to raise a debate on the future today. And the point of this debate is not in compiling political points, not in the free EPP, but in discussing the future. We don't even blame it because it's pointless to look for someone to blame. The culprit will not be solved if we look for him, but he has recently given up, so this story is over. It is now essential that the elections be held as soon as possible, in order to obtain an operational government in these elections, which will have people who will also hope to face the challenges and, above all, who will have content and knowledge, this is now a key issue and there is no need for any discomfort. However, if we focus once again on the key challenges I have mentioned, I will now continue to stop in this first intervention on population ageing. Indeed, I laughed a little when I listened to the representative of Desus, who said something like this, yes, because you know what, the population is getting old, unfortunately we have no influence on this, because this is how Europe is going. True, the representatives of Desus have no bearing on this, but some youths may have an impact on the increase in fertility, certainly. And it is the duty of the state to help them make the most of their decision. Because of the ageing of the population, I don’t know if there are other parties in Desus who know what the ageing of the population is. This standard of living, this pension and also this health system will be impossible to maintain for a long time if we do not do something with our people in our own lives. This is not fabricated by the opposition, see statistics tell us, those dealing with sociology and similar matters, that if we want to maintain the current standard, we need 30,000 children per year. They're born 20,000, 10,000 too little, and now the leftists are getting very nervous, and they're making a little mockery of us here on this side, when we start talking about what we should do to have more children, so that we can have more births and say, you can't force women to have more children, okay, maybe they're right here, but those who want to have children and we owe them to help them do that, too. This is what we owe them to help, but if you call us fertility and this aging is not of interest, there is another solution, migration. You have a whole range of Western European countries, which save this low fertility in a way and with the help of migration, open their borders and invite people, this may be your solution, and there are important differences between countries to open doors for everyone and others to choose very selectively, here I must admit that I am close to the Australian model, where they are very targeted, the audience, the people they need through their professional structure, also the age structure and so on, and people who are as close as possible to them culturally and similar things. Of course, these are things that this policy and policy will be obliged to discuss in the next term whether or not it will want to or not. Because those who say you are hard fighters for pensioners and pensioners, simply without any serious changes, will fail our pension system, and when some talk about how our pension system is sustainable, they simply lie because if you know that it takes just one billion and a little more from the state budget to make the pension pay, then it is clear to you that the pension system does not work. Sometimes, like Members of Parliament, we're in our offices and an elderly gentleman comes to us or a lady comes to us, sometimes so few ears, and they ask us where's my money, which I've been paying for 40 years on my pension salary, where is this money now, that my pension is so miserable? Unfortunately, all these people need to be explained that we have a classic Bismarck model, where this money that we pay monthly for our salaries, or we give for our pensions, does not go anywhere, but is spent, everything we pay for our salaries goes back to the same month for our pensions, the same month. And that's why I often say that our pension system is a classic Ponzi scheme, which means that if you have more people who put into the system than those who draw from it, this system works. Once this relationship is broken, this fairy tale is over. And in the past, when you had three employees per pensioner in the '80s, this system might have worked. Today, when you have 1.37 employees per pensioner or if I say otherwise, for 100 pensioners of 137 employees, these ratios are very low. For one pensioner who has an average pension of 600 euros for the Slovenian situation, there must be as many as three workers with a minimum wage. These are the facts and truths that exist in this country. And one more thing, if the state has said that you need €617 in this country for normal survival to be the threshold of poverty, then it should be the minimum pension for 40 years of work. Someone who has worked for 40 years deserves to have at least that minimum pension, which is the threshold of poverty, when he retires. That should be standard. Of course, to achieve all of this, what I am talking about now, within this system that we have today, there is no way to do it and our pension system will need to be modernised. Which way? That part of the money we pay for pensions will not be spent on all the money, but that part of it will also be invested and noble. Because if we don't have a large number of depositors, then the only solution is to put the money somewhere, you try to turn it around and fertilize it and get more out of it. It's the only solution that exists to us. And here, too, we find warm water, what we are proposing, in fact, many other Western European countries have already faced or are facing difficult demographic trends in the past. That's the point. And it seems, here I am grateful to Mr Mesec, who understood the point of this meeting today to let us talk about directions for the future, otherwise he has a completely different one than I, recently we met with fellow students from the FDV and in those days when I studied at the FDV I think I was the only one to be more right-centred, which is something that many of my classmates acknowledged to me at the meeting that at that time I was quite brave that I was hoping to expose myself to this left FDV, but you will believe that now there is a large majority of my students more right-hand party. Before that, they were all certain left-wingers. Which is kind of what he's holding, I think Churchill's saying if you're not a socialist by 30 years, you don't have a heart, but if you're a socialist after 30 years, you don't have a mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u39	[[From the hall]] again procedurally up; or [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u40	Those are Churchill's words, Mr. Duck, I don't think anything dramatic or insulting has been said here. I just want to say that among young people, too, the orientation is changing in some way and that what seemed extremely inviting years ago is no longer an invitation. When someone goes to work, when they get children when they face reality, unfortunately socialist ideas are no longer as attractive as they may have felt in the past. So I'm going to make a dot right here. There's still a follow-up.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u41	Yeah, we take this as a quote that's often used. Now, wisely or unwisely, I call on Mr Primož Hainz to prepare himself for Mr Danilo Anton Ranc and Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I was a little over the time when my colleague Tonin reminded me that I was well over 30, but I need to know who said those words. In fact, he was a brilliant military commander, but he was a staunch conservative, Churchill. So, you know, it takes a little bit, I'll say, from behind, look at what someone says and how, why does he say anything, but well, let's just leave it at that, by the way. Of course, I must say that this meeting is intended, of course, for two parties, to explain their electoral programme. There is no doubt here, so we have the whole spectrum, health, the economy, justice, pension reform, construction, modernisation, administration, education, security, but you left the culture completely. But I must say that this comment is very serious. Of course, as far as this is concerned, hatred or discomfort, as Mr Tonin says, is here, of course, I will tell an old story when Janša won the elections in 2004, but, if we say so, I said, well, let him make a little order, because he is more conservative or what he would call it, and then we will try, but it turns out that his actions or your actions were no better. Changing administrations and so on and so on, in short, there is nothing left of it and of course I was myself personally very, I will say in a way disappointed. But let's leave. There is no hatred, Mr Grims, of course this is a simple policy logic, everyone has its basic starting points, of course you are obviously looking at some point of your starting point, and of course I am not agreeing to this and I think that Mr Trček is absolutely right. As for the contribution to what you say is so bad, I must say, of course, that Desus has contributed to some points, he has certainly made a great contribution to political stability. We have landed on a number of marriages because the SMC is thinking a little more liberally than we are, and we have given in, if I may say so, because the economists have warned us, we need political stability and, of course, Desus can certainly boast that he has contributed to this political stability. As far as economic growth is concerned, I would not discuss it here. I think that the data is clear, and it also publishes, and our UMAR must have acknowledged that it did not anticipate economic growth and, of course, this economic growth is the best even in European conditions. [[Incomprehensible]] As far as birth is concerned, Mr Tonin, but of course I must say here, I know that you have Desus in front of your eyes, and not only in front of your eyes, even in your language, but I have already explained this once in this National Assembly, and I will repeat it today because I see that there is not much desire for discussion. In fact, in the 1970s, I once studied fertility in northern Italy or in Crassus, Italy, in Crassus, Slovenia, and there was one iron curtain in the middle, and there were two systems, two regimes, the exact same low birth rate was on both sides of the border and with no one, so of course there is something to do, but by saying so, we will be born now, so of course this is impossible to do, but of course you are thinking here, but of course you have not given the right recipe, because it is also not easy to do. It is true, however, that we have some problems in this country, of course I admit, that we have difficulties in thinking liberally, some of us think socialally regardless of age, and of course this is something that, of course, we have problems. Even coalition partners sometimes just jump out. And I will never forget the vote on the Funeral Celebration Act, which we made a total liberalisation of the fight for the corpses, I then called it, which became completely nonsense. We said the environment, tradition and so on, but the law was passed so that SMC connected with the opposition party the largest and they voted or you voted. I mean, this is, of course, something that I have to do with which, of course, we have a bit of a problem and I can't get past. [[…]] For that marriage, I have to tell you, if you remember, it was so liberal or so liberal that the fire, which is completely pure, when, I mean hygienic or whatever it is called, the widow can't hold hands. Only an authorised legal person can do this. That's what you say, the cemetery, the cave, and so on, it's not even allowed, so to speak, to almost say, to touch. [[…]] I think that this is some kind of outcast image of this liberalism and that it is exaggerated, but I remember well when we were doing the so-called crematorium in Ljubljana, we promised the widows that the grills could even carry home to the closet, because there was no hygiene reason, of course, that they had previously dictated the law on funeral ceremonies when they were still baptized, bodies and so on. But let's just leave it, I just wanted to give you an example of how some things sometimes jump out of the rails. As far as pensions are concerned, of course, I must say here that DeSUS has always made a great contribution to the previous government and with Dr. Chufer, of course, Karl Erjavec has prevented the marked fall of pensions, which has also been promised in this government, and Dr. Maramor has had from the beginning a serious idea of how the pension traps should have been prevented by our ministers. So here I have to say that we've done a lot of things, even though some people don't admit it to us. But to go to specific data, although this is not my most topic, but, look, the fall was stopped then in 2016 the pension rose by 0.7 plus 0.4. That's when some people said it's for the sprayer, and that's for the ice cream ball. But you know, 2016 twice, 2017 1.5 and 2018 in 2,2 plus 1,1, all of this is 5.5% of the pension rose in this term. That's the number. As for the regression here of course we know the story, because we were for the regression of course that last year received the regression of pensioners up to 750 euros, but this year of course we said more, we said we all get but get on the scale, here we have problems of course with respectable colleague Alenka Bratušek, who wanted to have two classes we said, but not every pensioner must get but those who have a low pension must get much more than those who have a high pension. Let's leave now how high the pensions are but the differences are and here, of course, we have some conflicts but they are, I think, more or less of a verbal character. All together, I ask in agreement with the Association of Retirement Associations of Slovenia. This was their proposal and I was pleased to receive it from DeSUS. However, I am pleased, of course, that, unfortunately, my colleague did not think she would speak before me, but she realized that pensions were an important point, she realized that she had broken it in her government's pensions, she admitted, of course, that she had also broken it in health reform, because she was dealing with banks, and I know that she was dealing with banks, that the times were really bad, but she realized, of course, and now she's going to take an action to sign for 5% of the pension raise, which of course I see no reason to commend if it was financially possible, or if it would succeed. As for the further actions of DeSUS, of course, we need to be clear, we went into a package to correct the injustices, that is, those pensions that were previously not coordinated in those years that I listed up to those increases, of course, and that is why we said that this difference should be obtained, that is somewhat over 8%, and that in four years they would make up for the pensioners to catch up with that story that happened or that minus that which happened after all, because coordination for a few years, a few years, was not. We are in favour of a minimum pension of 500 euros, and we have also proposed this. For higher widow's pensions, this is, of course, a special chapter, you know, that older ladies who are left alone with only one pension are having a hard time living any way and, of course, here we have proposed a law that is now somehow I hope that it will come despite these extraordinary circumstances or how some say in this process. And, of course, we proposed the Demographic Fund Act, which is, of course, what Mr Tonin would have laid down for you when you explained the matter. Indeed, it is to stabilise this part of how the state co-finances the difference between the pension paid and that difference, solidarity, if I may say so. But it would not depend on a specific government every year to make it a long-term fund, of course, we are proposing the Demographic Fund Act, which would somehow automatically co-finance it in terms of the income it would generate. And of course this is now of course why some don't support us and I won't think about it but this thinking has a lot, I'll say, options. We have proposed some other laws, well, an addition to pensions for top cultural and scientific workers, that I have proposed, because I think that for national identity cultural and scientific work is extremely important and it would not be important, so, for athletes, it has been taken lightly, with cultural workers and scientists there are some concerns, and I do not quite understand why. [[…]] We have also proposed, I think, a hydroelectric power plant in the middle of Savi, but it has financial implications, but of course because energy is something that can catch us, and we need to be careful not to be hit by a lack of energy. We, in Desus, are of course convinced that Article 2 of the Constitution must be implemented. You know it says that the Republic of Slovenia is a social state. This is legal, political and even human, of course. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] is that the differences that are growing in Europe and in us are shrinking. Indeed, income differences or unfair income-sharing destabilize the social system, if you want, in the final sequence, and this is not only unfair, but also destabilising. That's why I think we're taking this into account in Desus, and that we need to be so smart, if not socially sensitive. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] After 30 years or what you said. This is also true of Europe, of course. Europe will be stable if it is democratic, which we like to stress because all members should have [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u43	Automatism is this thing. He's got a magic word first. Matthew Tonin as a representative of the proposer, then Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc and then Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u44	Yeah, you know that Desus is my favorite client that I always like in my language. I have to say honestly, Desus is a client who advocates high-retirement pensioners, and there is nothing wrong with that. For the vast majority of those who have low pensions, however, there is a long-term danger because, as long as Desus is in government, nothing important happens to increase pensions and to actually reach minimum pensions of at least EUR 617. Don't let anyone say I'm only criticizing Desus. I will also say a point where Desus and I agree, and we can have a common point in some way, which is health. Now that I have listened to you, many have written to me, including Ancha, Katarina and Tina, who lie in hospital beds and follow us and say they are happy to listen to us, so I hope they will be healed as soon as possible. They said there was something else to say in the area of health. Now, here comes health care, and like I said, it was one of the things that Desus and I were on the same side of. Here I absolutely support their Member of Gantar, who has been extremely critical of the Minister of Health. Before that, the SMC Member informed me that we did not want to take responsibility in 2014, when we had the opportunity. Maybe now is the time to tell us where the problem was that we didn't go to the coalition. The underlying problem was health. When we came to the SMC with the New Slovenia negotiating team to actually talk about what and where health care would be going, then the health minister (or not at the time, still at present) did not even allow us to speak, but was determined in advance what she wanted. We have seen that these are surviving concepts, that these are concepts from another time, and that we have nothing to do on such a team, because the Minister has not been prepared to talk seriously, nor to take any compromises. That was a fundamental problem. We, in New Slovenia, advocate public health, but not the kind we have today, that you die before it's your turn to be treated, or that if you don't pay anything, you wait two years, but if you pay, you'll come straight to your turn. Apparently, there are capacities in the Slovenian health system, because if someone tells you if you pay, you come in 14 days, otherwise you wait a year, obviously capacity exists. But it's organization, the system itself is wrong. And what we're proposing, and what we're also trying to suggest to the minister, is what Luka Moon was doing to follow the patient's money, which means the patient can choose where to treat himself. He can be treated in a public hospital, he can be treated in a private institution, a concessionary, wherever he wants, but where he's being treated, there's a health insurance company paying him, that's the point of following the patient's money, choosing your own contractor and paying you where you're going. Look at the nonsense of the Slovenian health system. I just found out about this thing today. CTG reviews, painting and the like, in Slovenia you wait a long time, you can't come in line, you can pay for yourself. If you go across the border of Croatia, immediately to the border, a few kilometers, now they've set up centres where Slovenians do these checks, pay up, apply to the ZZZS and the ZZZS will pay them back. What's the logic here? So if you go to Croatia to a private contractor, you Slovenian health insurance company or institution, that I am accurate, that returns it, and not in Slovenia. It doesn't make any sense. So, please, those of us who constantly resent that we are for the privatisation of public health are not. We are for public health, which would actually work in a way to get to a doctor as quickly as possible and to be effectively greeted by this doctor. If we have a system, if we have some chambers that give licences, that means that they give confirmation that someone is carrying out an activity in accordance with the guidelines and rules, then it is important for the country whether in this house or in that house, if an activity is carried out in accordance with the standards, it is necessary to pay for it. Pika. And until we have established such a system, by then, people will be dying for us because of the waiting species. And the health system is certainly one of the things that the next government coalition needs to do right away because our society is rapidly getting older because we do not have practical care. I'll make a dot here. The next intervention will most likely have with Minister Restovalski about investments in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u45	Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor. Get ready for Dr. Franz Duck and Mr. Jernej Gardener.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u46	Mr President, distinguished representatives of the Government, ministers, secretaries of state, as well as fellow Members and Members of Parliament. I am famous for this House, in particular to discuss economic issues. This time, too, I will try to turn the matter in this direction, because I was sometimes disappointed that we are talking too much about things that are not directly related to the increase in some of the welfare of society, that is basically the economy, economic growth and so on. Of course, I am pleased that the Government of Mira Cerar and the ministers have recognized this fact and that the strategy of action and the government has in fact focused on this direction, that we have devoted some attention to re-energizing the economy, which is the generator of some of the welfare of a society and, of course, a full budget. Of course, today's proposal for recommendations I read also speaks more or less about society as a whole, but above all about the support systems of society, which, of course, we need very much so that someone doesn't think I'm neglecting these systems, because I see it as a whole. There is a lot of talk here about justice, health care, pension system, public administration, family policy, including security policy. As for the direct economy, this only touches one recommendation, so directly. So I would say, of the 10 recommendations, there is only one adjustment to the economic field directly or indirectly, and here I think that the content of the recommendations is disproportionately distributed according to my assessment, the importance of an economy as a basic generator and a system that drives the whole society. The government of Mira Cerar, of course, and the Party of the Modern Centre, we have this asymmetry of past governments, which have more or less focused on how money is spent, shared and come into the situation we are in, and we have changed this issue and focused on the economy in particular, the growth of the economy, because we know that this is important for, of course, the well-being of a country. Of course, when I went through these recommendations in some way cover all segments of society as a whole, but I also noticed that the government's messages to the fact that the Government of Mira Cerar is actually implementing all these recommendations, now how these recommendations are addressed, how they are implemented, of course, can be a matter of some verbal game, or how you show it, but I find that we have actually implemented these recommendations in this mandate and in every way endeavoured to make it happen in practice. Of course, I must also find this, but in the implementation of these measures and strategic projects, it is also sometimes possible to run into envy and speculation and how to throw pollen under the feet, both from the opposition and, of course, from the coalition. In order to be more specific in bargaining, there have sometimes been divisions of these areas in which we have received the greatest criticisms, such or other, which have been hampered by their projects. [[Incomprehensible]] As we go in line, the second track, the third axis, just before the project was implemented, which after 20 years was successfully implemented by the Government, the previous promised this, an example of the second track, some civil initiative, constitutional issues, search for hair in the egg. Now that the third axis, similar to the scenario, appears again an initiative that is, of course, subject to the project. After going to health reform, there, of course, we also faced a coalition partner who in some way hindered this reform process, here joins part of the opposition, the Fides syndicate, the pharmaceutical lobby, the insurance lobby. Let me also, of course, touch the Law on the Management of State Forests, which is an excellent project, a law which, of course, is not implemented by Desus and SD in its practice in the same way as it should, of course, in connection with former concessionaires and some trade unions. So I can say that in implementing these projects, creating some economic growth and important strategic projects for the country, we have been targets on several sides. So that a recommendation and a call can be made to political parties and all stakeholders to stop adjusting to such similar practices in this mandate, as much as it is in the future, so that they may really need one recommendation. Because sometimes you have a feeling when I live there along the border with Austria, I see across the border building this railway, a nice project is running, always when I drive through more is built, but here we are like some in the Šentflorian valley arguing about the shadow shaft, instead of this second track these important projects and it will happen to us that the neighbours will go around Slovenia and Luka Koper and, of course, this will be the greatest long-term economic damage to Slovenia's well-being, then all these social upgrades and all the stakeholders of society that are important will not be able to power themselves from some budget because the economy will stagnate. So in Slovenia we can talk about some phenomenon of the implementation of civil initiatives that they start when a successful project starts with some jealousy, things just mine, always using the same model, as I mentioned earlier. Second track, third axis. Of course, when I touch on the case of state forest management laws, this is a coalition project, which is not going in this direction because of the partners. A good law is not implemented because it is not established by a gathering center, wood production, and the conclusions of the congregation are not implemented. And of course how Prime Minister Miro Cerar ruled in this mandate. The party and the government focused mainly on how to revive the economy, how to create conditions for economic growth from a revitalised economy and, of course, fill the budget. Here some strategic documents were adopted, a strategy for the development of Slovenia. Slovenian industrial policy, smart specialisation, which introduces sustainable development and the so-called circular economy. In the field of economy, we have adopted a whole set of laws to promote investment and other laws, the Trade Act, the Law on Change and Complementation of the Hostage Act, the Law on Promoting Tourism. And, of course, the Law on aid and rescue and restructuring companies and cooperatives in difficulty and the Investment Promotion Act also added the priority criteria set out in these strategic documents to guide our society to the circular economy, to introduce green jobs and to support companies with low carbon footprints. Of course, we also managed to improve the business environment for companies in Slovenia during this period, thus increasing domestic and foreign investors such as Yaskawa, Magna Steyr, Lek Novartis and other important domestic investments. [[Incomprehensible]] Of course, with the law we have managed to align domestic and foreign investors so that this difference will no longer be present, of course, we have already managed to curb incentives and elements to encourage companies to invest in the use of natural resources to reduce carbon footprints and, of course, to provide green jobs. and, of course, when I look at all these results, we are accompanied by the European Union, the OECD and other international institutions, the European Union's assessment that Slovenia has emerged from macroeconomic imbalances, that investment is growing, that the banking sector is strengthened, and that public debt is reduced to 78,5 gross social product in 2016. Banks in Slovenia are also profitable, well capitalised, and have a favourable funding structure. The share of negative claims decreased from 16.8 to 10%. The reduction in the public deficit from 5% to 1.9% is expected, but even an additional reduction to 0.8% in 2018 is expected. In 2019 we expect even a public financial surplus. Of course, I will not repeat these dry matter numbers, the thesis of my main debate is that the Government of Mir Cerar and the Modern Centre Party have tried and I also think that we have managed to create conditions for the management and creation of added value and so-called budget charging. That's the basic point. Of course, also the recommendations I have read, I must say that they mention some of the things that the Party of the Modern Centre, the Government of Mira Cerar, has not implemented, implemented, are in the stage of implementation. Here I have mentioned, we have sometimes also stumbled upon speculation from the left, right, sometimes even within the coalition, I think that here the Modern Centre Party as a central party acted in a coherent way, offers a model of introducing conditions for companies that will ensure, as I mentioned earlier, the budget charging and the development of all very important, from sectors of society, from education, health, justice and so on. This is the main point, and here perhaps my debate differs from the division of left-wing men, right-wing men, but I am there. I would like to point out that we have been working in the middle, that this practice has also been followed by the Government and that, if some were not polenic, economic growth would be possible for six percent more and, of course, would have made it easier to implement these things, which are mentioned in three of these recommendations. That is why I think it is necessary to direct the debate in this direction and, above all, to think about how to create more, to fill the budget and, after some of the inertia itself, then to draw more resources for all the other such important subsectors of our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, proposer. Get ready for Dr. Franz Duck and Mr. Jernej Gardener. Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u48	It is good that today the ministers of public administration are here with us, and for the economy, the Secretary of State for Finance, so that we can say something else on the subject of business space, the economy itself, the environment for the economy. I think that it must be a key point for all of us to want as many jobs as possible, because more jobs will also mean more payments to health and pension bills. Of course, the key thing is that these jobs are as quality as possible, according to the household statement, we have such jobs so that people will get as much pay as possible. Slovenia, however, seems to be becoming a country of subcontractors more and more, and the companies that come to us are mainly companies offering wages between 800 and, say, 1,000 euros net. This is certainly not what Slovenia would long want, because we have to compare ourselves with the best. Go to Ireland, go to Slovakia and just walk across the capital and see the boards of companies operating in these countries. And you will see that there are great multinationals who offer people well-paid jobs. Because if people have good salaries in Slovenia, then if they have high salaries, they will also benefit from pension and health bills and, finally, domestic consumption will increase. The more people will have, the more they will be able to spend, the more they will be able to spend, the more they will be able to buy services, the good things, go on trips, the more they will be able to spend, the more they will be able to spend, the more they will be able to buy services, the more they will go on trips, the more they will be able to do, the more they will be able to spend, the more they will be able to spend, the more they will spend, the more they will be able to buy services, the more good things, the more they will go on trips, the more they will be able to go on trips, the more they will be able to do, the more they will be able to buy jobs, the more they will be able It is crucial that we succeed or are all asked or checked under what conditions we operate and here, when companies and people decide whether they will come to Slovenia, even if they remain in Slovenia We have a particular problem lately that we have about 8 000 young people under 40 who are well educated every year run out of this country. God grant that we return to the country and do what is good in the country, but now they have better conditions for the same work abroad and better pay and take advantage of it. It is therefore also necessary to change the conditions for them to remain in Slovenia. But once again, here all point out three key issues for a good environment; the tax environment, administration, bureaucracy and predictability. As far as taxes are concerned, I think that our salaries are too taxed to be the easiest solution to increase general income relief and thus keep the burden on the economy at the same level, but people would get a higher net, and I am sure that what the state would cancel at income would be more money in its pockets, would cost it anyway, would be spent on electricity, if you wanted, for food, for anything and for all these matters that you would spend, would pay VAT and what the state would lose on income, would get back after a few rounds of VAT. Therefore, our proposal to relieve wages, to keep the net higher for the people, is not so in the clouds, but is very concrete and exact. The following thing, administration and bureaucracy I don't know, entrepreneurs inform us that those who work in Austria and have open businesses there, state, municipal, local administration will come in after a few days to ask them if they can help. [[…]] It seems to us that a bureaucrat machine can only list what you don't have yet and where you need to go. It would be interesting to hear from the Minister of Public Administration what has actually been done in this area. Don't let anyone say I'm the critic. But, as far as debarcation is concerned, this mandate was unfortunately not done. Even in terms of digitisation, I do not have an expert, as far as computerism is concerned, but I only know some basic things, but the procedures that you can put forms online on the social work centre and otherwise operate electronically with the country are so complicated and complicated that I needed the technical assistance of this state service because I wanted to get to the bottom of the matter and what other citizen would have given up earlier. [[…]] If, Minister, the complexity of the procedures now available had been reduced, we would have taken an important step forward. As far as predictability is concerned, which is also highlighted by economists, our business space is unfortunately very unpredictable. Tomorrow you don't know what's ahead, because laws change from day to day, and you don't know how predictable your tax environment is, and you don't know the legal framework. Things change overnight and for every entrepreneur who pursues stability, it is a thing that rejects him and does not attract him to Slovenia. Well, if we go on a very specific case, the whole misery of the Slovenian business space is marked by a very special law for Magna. Minister, did you do well? I don't criticize you here because Magna came to Maribor. It's the right thing to do. But that a special law had to be adopted for this investment, and I think it shows all the misery of our business space. In some normal country, a special law for making an investment would certainly not be needed. In a normal country, you can make an investment under existing laws. A special law was needed here. The problem is that many entrepreneurs have warned us that they do not have the treatment Magna received from Slovenian entrepreneurs. Many Slovenian entrepreneurs wait five, ten years to adopt appropriate spatial acts so that they can expand their hall in their business space. Ten years. And they didn't get that kind of treatment. You're also talking about how high and important the investment was Magna. You also have investors in Slovenia, among them Joc Pečečnik, whose standards are similar to those guaranteed by Magna. Minister, we're not gonna argue here whether it's right that Magna is here or not. That's right. I just want to say that I would be very happy if we had the same treatment as all the other Slovenian entrepreneurs. Today, during my debate, Minister Restovalšek wrote that if your memory does not deceive you, the New Slovenia Investment Promotion Act did not support it. Here you go, Minister. Here you go. Do you know why she didn't support him? Because in this law you introduce first-class and second-class entrepreneurs, because in this law you have specifically or simply excluded some entrepreneurs and prevented them from getting incentives at all. We don't think that's right. A better approach would be to help everyone through tax relief, not by encouraging those you see, but by expelling others. The problem has also been with decommissioning, and it is likely that Member Trček will be more likely to do so. I'm just going to say that the problem for me was the first and second-class Slovenian entrepreneurs, which certainly wasn't good. I would like this business environment to improve and that the Slovenians will have the opportunity to work at home, on the domestic soil, in jobs that will have well-paid positions and that they can truly live a decent life out of good wages.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u50	Thank you, President, for your words and thank you for these questions. I'll try to be specific. Bureaucratation is something that is always on the way, if we say, to economic accelerated development, but something that every country has to implement the laws that are adopted and introduces that order that we have prescribed by law. I am absolutely not satisfied or impressed with the progress we have made in this area, but we have done some concrete things in this direction, as well as some concrete measures and projects. The backlogs in administrative units are measured very precisely and measured in periphery, extremely small. The average time for issuing a building permit from a complete application shall be less than 20 days, from the full application. Following customer satisfaction we have done before, we are now introducing a new system to actually ask each customer how pleased it is with the content of the service and with the kindness of the officials they are dealing with. Many options for removing administrative barriers and measures are being monitored through a single system, categorised, defined by the ministries and monitored their implementation, and implemented following regular monitoring of 67 proposals adopted, and many legislative and administrative obstacles have been removed, could be listed, we have also published a wonderful publication on this subject, where we have listed in taxis, which all administrative obstacles have been addressed in common value, I think, 320 million euro of an annual unloading, but of course, all of them, and we are also looking at the obstacles that have remained, and we will continue to address them. As regards the bureaucratic apparatus and the way in which it works, we have completely reformed the system of education in the administrative unit, which is focused on the way in which it works, in cooperation. The chiefs and officials are trying to direct them to go proactively to the municipalities, to entrepreneurs, ask them what they want, and this is happening more and more often, and I am getting as many criticisms myself, I am very happy, and in recent times many praise the work of the bureaucrat apparatus, which normally performs its work professionally, and in the hands, have been increasingly commended. As far as digitisation is concerned, see, this is a support mechanism, a wheel in the background that is becoming more and more complex, but we have made one move that the professional public recognises, which did not happen before 10 years, and we have finally managed to connect the data in the background into a single, homogeneous system that can be done within the state administration in one place and communicates with each other. There are more and more processes or fewer where data is required repeatedly, and each time we pay attention to something like this. As regards services for citizens, you probably know the e-Government system, the e-Vem system, the portal for foreign investors, the renovation of portals, the new version, which is more friendly than the previous one, is already being prepared, and dozens of new services are being prepared, which can be done by entrepreneurs today, especially by citizens from their home chair, if they so wish, and even a range of data that are available to them today through the e-Clicks that the country runs in them. Yes, we solve problems with digital certificates, we solve problems with the accessibility of services, but it is undeniable that this has improved significantly in all areas. As far as the efficiency of the public sector is concerned, however, it should also point out that we have combined a number of tasks both in the field of information, support, equipment and the systematic introduction of so-called administrative centres, which means that we are not interfering with the functioning and competence of individual services, but that we want to offer the services available to citizens in one place rationally. Citizens still say, we go to the congregation, but when they say they go to the congregation, they usually go to the administrative unit, to the FURS, to the GURS and to other jobs, and we want them to do it in one place. Of course, I want us to succeed in a much more radical cut in salary and in the service system in public administration. Right at the beginning of the mandate, we have prepared, in my opinion, minimum corrections, which would trigger this larger, personal responsibility, which also reflects the salary of the staff member, in order to better enforce the results of the work rather than reward the job. And here I regret to find that we have failed, but you know that any intervention in the salary and service system is possible only with agreement not only in the opinion but with the agreement of the trade unions in the public sector, and we have not been able to achieve this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franc Trček, prepare for Mr Jernej Vrtovec and Mrs Erika Dekleva.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm going to fight a little less, I hope, than the people in front of me. Now I would say that if I said that with the development and future of Slovenia I would be working three years seven months and sixteen days I would be lying to you. If I told you that I have been engaged in the development and future of Slovenia since 1 November 1994, I would have lied to you because I was then employed as a young researcher. If I told you I'd been dealing with this same topic since 1 October 1989, when I came to FSPN, I'd be lying to you. I have been doing this since I read such things, and I quote: “We have not yet passed a basic test of democracy, but we should be aware that the long-term solution to the dilemma of war or peace lies not in the largest number of soldiers but vice versa; in an ever-increasing number of opponents, peacekeepers, pacifists or all who reject violence as a means of solving personal and social problems. So far, this is the only real option I know. Man must change himself so he does not destroy the world." John Janša on his side, a collection of 1985 - 1988 columns by John Janša. Where he turned in the 1930 ’ s, John Janša does not need to be explained. Since then, I think this, and since the beginning of the study, I have thought professionally about social development, sectoral policies, cross-sectoral policies, territorial, regional and so on. I am the machine for being raised by the best people who could do this in Slovenia. I also did a social demographic with Mrs. Shirca, and I don't know if you had one, because what you're saying is I'm a little afraid that you didn't. Now, if Tonin said that Desus is a rich pensioner, that's what you're reading to Luke, and you're basically a man for rich patients who doesn't really understand the stochastic or the logic of fluid physics. You know, because you'd move the crowd a little bit, those who had the money would go where it's good, and the poor would stay that way. Churchill wasn't elected after 2. World War II. The World War came to power in the United Kingdom as a Labour Party, and the current minister has set up a public health system that now has a number of problems. If you ever go to read serious books about it, you'll see that most people in there write that it was basically the only health minister or minister in modern times who didn't break his arm. So much for that. I've got a lot of stuff going on, and I'm probably gonna get run over by time. Now I've been on this parental work body, New Slovenia argues somehow, less country more freedomNow if I took Mr Grims I'd fight "eat oats, Tonin is an anarchist, baptized Mother, 300 hairy rosomachs, not elect him." [[Incomprehensible]] This is where we're ideologically different. Our position is to ask ourselves what the state is. The state is a guarantee of freedom, a guarantee of the conditions of freedom of the goods. Less taxes are better for you. What you've been explaining is still insistence on the excise model, you've been saying, yes, they're going to spend. My poor brother, who is renting a Russian exchange there, I repeat, for six euros, if he has six hundred euros or seven hundred euros he will not live much more. In this reference to the National Assembly, I am a lonely person who wonders about the value of everyday life. For "which kid" pays 3 grand for a square meter. You were talking, you wanted some marriage, which was already, your dad bought some used car, and they got him a little on three. Why does someone from Tuhinj have to buy a expensive used car from a higher, middle-class income class? Because you haven't developed public passenger traffic in 25 years. Lex Zorčič, we agree, absolutely. These are the subjects we should be asking. Less public, better for you. It is not true, see, in England they are currently collapsing “out-sourcing”. The largest firm went on a rampage, many people will lose their pensions, the second largest company is just before that, the Court of Auditors has proven that most of the services they offer are serviced 40% more expensive, and worse. The great edge of the train is called a key study on the privatisation of railways in the UK. Moving on now, the government 2004-2008, I have to compare these governments, a government that is called by the serious experts we are dealing with without development. That was then. That's when the Yanshes came to power, they waited a long time, you wanted to cut off your piece, that's what even the SMCs learned, which are pretty messy in politics, from our quotas. Definitions of the T.I. Then the red executives got a little freaked out, didn't seem to let you down. For three years, there was a law in the drawer that would prevent tycoon privatisation, and then it turned away how it turned out and what happened. Now, about the comparison with the Multi-Garden Four, which some of you like to mention, that's what I've already said. I don't want Slovenia to break down the rule of law in Poland, I don't want Slovenia to go to the Orban kleptocratistic virtual democracy, but no matter which son-in-law gets European jobs. I don't want Slovenia to cooperate with the Italian mafia, and you know Matthew's story with Maribor at the bank, and Mr Grims didn't refer to it, and I'll tell you. You're not in this so-called. Janie's commission, Jernej's in, we got Varkos on the table today. If you've read that, today Matthew Tonin should have a press conference, with SDS and Jansha, I don't want anything to do with this, this, this and this. Because of what I'm saying right now, I know I'm probably about to have a text message in five minutes or some kind of threat that yours is going to kill me. This has the mark internally when it comes to the public who will vote for the SDS to ask for health. How much time do I have? Let's move on, yes, you see as "fooling," you know what I'm talking about, doctor. [[Incomprehensible]] A country like a bar, you made it in 25 years. I didn't do it. You speak old, aging, as long as you speak like that, you don't understand the basics. You need to talk about longevity, you need to talk about people who are really showing them over quotas 60 or 70, but these people are much wiser than the composition of this National Assembly, they are experienced, they are careful, they can also endure, but when they understand why not, not cut them like sausages. I agree with that, I regret that Ludmile is no longer here, what she said about teachers, about saviors, and I myself have been a teacher for 20 years, and I probably conclude this story slowly if I am once again in the National Assembly. And now there's a number of other things. You were talking about the country of subcontractors yourself. When Luke the moon says that, the left-hand man strikes, we're all pushing him down, even though we're very clear on that. Your story, which you like to pursue about demography, about birthrates. I have three kids. That's when I freaked out about Grims' visa, which is now a little insulted, I mean, the father of three kids won't lie to the father of three kids to hate him. This, Branko, I don't allow it. Pika. Otherwise, I wouldn't say that, which is why I said that, so you know. That's why we have to be adults. Here's Lyudmila's example on the so-called. Right side. We did, something happened to us called the demographic transition. These people can't force how many kids they have, but here I agree with you, but you have to allow birth conditions if they want to have them. Now, if I go back, Mr. Restoring is not here, now your logic, but you know the tax, because after what you did in that government, when unfortunately the late Mr. Bajuk Finance Minister was, 2004-2008, and since foreign investors should be dret like crazy here, but there are other things, indeed, the security of some system, infrastructure, or mass after all labor and so on. Probably those restorative calves dream of me in nightmares when I was struggling with a smart specialisation strategy in the first half of my term because they were laughing at us in Brussels as we were writing. And here today is not this debate that we are actually going to go, but you know and here I like Austria basically, I don't like their current government and coalition, frankly, they've been going clusters for 20 years by key economic sectors where "dad Mates" are so. But you know, your riding to small and medium-sized businesses without us planting them will be exactly that, the country of subcontractors and, of course, when the conjunctura falls, it is actually going too fast. I always say, I'm always this technique that says ah, you're an asshole sociologist, I always asked them who uses the most electricity in Slovenia? If he didn't know how to answer me in five seconds, who invited the most electricity in Slovenia? Talon, here you see, Talon uses the most subsidised electricity in Slovenia, why we don't know how to make aluminum from this cooking to use Tonin's story, higher added value, why we have to be almost born around Impola to have some kind of bypass there. Why don't we have one of the five best aluminium institutes in the world in Maribor? It's your fault because you've been sitting here for 25 years, not me, in front of me, or at least 17,18 years of thin, for example. Whenever I say that Tanko will get up, he'll say, but Duck Doctor for everybody, fuck, I'm not the doctor for everyone, and only I Bojana's very busy, maybe because we came into this meeting of parliament with the least election votes of all of us, the one with the 523, me with the 560. It's the truth, it's the electoral system, it's not me who invented it, it's politics that's happened to me, but it's always twice as hard as the others, that's who we are. But you know and the development of Slovenia we will not go to some meetings when most of you will watch some “geräte”, I would ban, you know I would give as in Formula 1, that we have an internal system and all the communication going on to register and that it is public to see what I am communicating with my expert during the session, but to see if anyone knows at any session of the parent working body three, four hours watching which boots she will choose. We probably need to think a lot more, we have had a chance through this strategy to talk about it. Mrs. Smercoll wanted to give me some information, the Ministry of Finance said you shouldn't get it, I went to the OECD to talk to the OECD team about it, and my people are yelling at me too much abroad, what happened? In fact, it was a violation of the relationship of the executive branch of the State Assembly, and the Government adopted it at a meeting without discussion in the National Assembly. In short, a lot of our work is waiting in the next lineup.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Proposer, please, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u54	Dear Member of the Union, Mr Trcek [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u55	I'm sorry, the replica, Mr. Tonin, but Mr. Grimes has a replica. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u56	Just a short replica. Look, of course, what's not true, if it repeats itself repeatedly, then it becomes the only saving truth, as Murphy's marriage teaches, let me repeat it again. Of course, I didn't say before, and it's not the only untruth you said about me, I said that you hate me on a personal level, and I talked about some of the parties swearing that they wouldn't cooperate with the SDS, and that's what I was talking about, and I argued that. And then it goes on, some explain why it is so, others because it is extreme and I don't know what it is, some do it even abroad and the common denominator of it is of course a negative emotional relationship, but a negative emotional relationship is hatred. Then I made that comparison, and unfortunately, that comparison says a lot, but if anyone doesn't like it, let him look in the mirror.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin, please. Proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u58	Ambassador Duck, this is an interesting debate. Thank you very much. I can accept the criticism in the part where you say I shouldn't talk about aging society, but a long-lived society. Over. And we don't force anyone to have children. I said two solutions. Either we accept more migration or we create conditions for those who want and can have children to do so. These are two options. It's about health. You're always skillfully trying to put in our mouths that we are, so that the rich can pay themselves something. Mr. Duck, you didn't hear me. I said that every citizen can choose any contractor, public hospital, private establishment or concessionaire, but it's paid by the insurance company where he's insured, which means it doesn't matter whether you're rich or poor because you're paid by the insurance company. That's the point. It is in some ways merely a legalisation of what is now being established in some way. Remember the case when someone went to a private dentist and then recovered through court that the ZZZS had to pay him for this treatment. So let's be specific here. But not to say, but we also have some common ground, of course. And the need to invest in research and development is one of the things that we all support and I also strongly support, because what I saw in Germany is what's happening there with the four-point industrial revolution, when you see it, how the research shit, the state and the companies are involved, you say, and we live in the Middle Ages. And the development will go on, and we'll stay behind, and there'll be a problem. We have recently visited the director of the Institute, Josef Štefan, who said that in the way we do things now, we simply cannot survive because the funds for research and development are poor. However, I will not argue back that New Slovenia has tabled amendments that tell it which would be added to the research and development of EUR 20 million in the last budget, because then we fall into the classic political stories, but let us talk, in principle, about the lines of how to establish an education that will be as useful for our country as possible. That's the point. I don't think I'm the only one inside this room, the only one or the generation that's been encouraging us to learn by telling us that you won't have to work. It's such a socialist nonsense that it can't be bigger. And from this we came up with a system where we're competing for grades because knowledge doesn't matter, our school system is focused on how this competition is remembered. Whoever has a better memory of remembering more can be successful. But let us not try to find in one area a young man who is shining, who is good because he will be able to do much for society. The problem is that those who can be exceptional in mathematics may not be able to speak Slovenian or speak English and thus fall out of the system. This is a problem that we need to solve and put in place such a school system so that it is more based on quality than on quantity. Also, all these many subjects that we now have in school, this is madness, which burdens both students and teachers, all murmur. Teachers have been scathed, burdened, no one respects their authority anymore, they have problems, on the other hand, students also, all scogans, overloaded. Yeah, obviously there's something wrong with this system. And as one of the fundamental culprits I see in this system is Mr Struckle. Because if you look at the number of children, the generations we have every year going to primary school, you can find that generations are falling and the number of teachers is increasing. Someone's gonna say yes to rising standards. Really? I think that a lot of things have been done in this direction to make her a nine-year-old, to increase the number of items just so that some could keep their jobs. I am not saying that teachers need to be driven and fired now, but I am talking about that the school system needs to be changed on a basic basis and that the system will be set up so that every profession will be valued, without us having one of the largest percentages of young people in Slovenia who are enrolled in high school in some general education, because everyone is simply looking for this because classical professions are no longer appreciated. If young people have been killed in the head since they were young, that every profession is appreciated, and that if you are in one profession, even if you are a baker or a plumber, you will be successful, and success will also ensure some basic existence. Such a system should have, and this is also one of the recommendations of our guidelines.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor to prepare Mrs Erika Dekleva and Mr Igor Zorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u60	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues who are chairing this meeting. Look, for starters, I really don't understand these insights from the introductory debates and discussions about how you can go populist if you talk about the future, how a neoliberal can be, if you talk about the future and represent solutions, your views. You know what? I buy that I'm a neoliberal because we're talking about the future. Okay, I'm a neoliberal, if there are such criteria in this country, and also a populism, if you want. But now, at the end of the discussion, Franz Duck has opened one essential element for the future. It seems to me that differences are, in particular, a perception of what the state is. For some, and these are different, legitimate views, the country is only and only a service, from which they can get as much as possible, but for some, the country is primarily that awareness that, yes, we will also give part of ourselves to this country to create conditions and then let the state leave us alone so that an individual can fully develop. We in this country have too much involvement of the state in an individual. We've got too many countries. Do you know what the state is for me? An institution which provides an individual with sufficient conditions for his or her personal development to develop and thus indirectly restores to society, the environment, the family, and so on. This is the country for me. As the term of office ends, we can also discuss what this Government has done and where the missed opportunities are, but it is not a criticism, and I have a completely peaceful conscience if I make a critical comment on this Government because at least in New Slovenia we have been constructively involved in drafting legislative proposals, measures, reforms from health to taxes. Unfortunately, most of these have been rejected by the coalition, but I have a calm conscience that I can now also criticise, especially in terms of salaries and taxes. Look, we are among the most "contributed" countries in Europe. Let's ask ourselves why Slovenia would not be a tax haven within Europe for foreign investors, why not lower taxes so that foreign investments could lead to better results and why not lower taxes so that people can have more money in their own wallets. What's the problem here? This is this proposal from New Slovenia; two years ago we introduced a package of measures of five laws for lower taxes. As a result, wages remain too low and Slovenia has not made any progress towards the countries of the European Union in the last four years. The same applies to pensions. I admire, admire those pensioners who can survive with 500 euros of pension or less, but I ask whether it is fair, whether it is a just state that allows and does nothing to make some people have such a pension after 40 years or more. No, that's not fair. Health care, and here's my last point, health care from the parade horse of this government, besides the second track is health essentially the key of this government, literally a horse that can no longer come to the finish line. [[…]] And from the great slogans that we have been able to hear from Members in the beginning, the former are now, in fact, a coalition, there are few battles left in health care. Nothing. Practically nothing. The data show enough for themselves how waiting types have been extended, waiting times, as we have thrown into our public institutions, hospitals EUR 135 million of money, and have done absolutely nothing to improve the situation in these institutions. And what will be the final measure? In such a way that the same institutions continue to operate with a negative, see the clinical center. And what hurts me the most is that 8,000 young people move out of this country every year. What perspective do we give as politicians? What perspective do we give people to stay here? Because of this as one of the key challenges in this country, in particular, it is that, for the first time, we agree on what the country is and that the state in particular offers the conditions for an individual to develop his talents, to offer him these opportunities, and for the second time, which is essential, not for the future, but for tomorrow's health. And for people. But what better way to live before this government than before this government now? But what better way to live? Do people feel this 5% economic growth? Do they feel it? Well, go out on the street and ask them. Or you can ask them about the election. But what better way do these people live? No, no, no. I don't care if 5% is economic growth, if I have to wait years to visit a specialist. Thank you very much, Madam Minister, President of the Government for such economic growth. And thank you so much for such solidarity in health, where there is no solidarity that you wait years and years to come. No, this is not solidarity and this is not public health as we imagine in New Slovenia. And what is the key? The key is to make a thorough reform of health care in order to make sure that people who pay into the healthcare system see if I pay something into the health care department, then I also expect to get quality, fast service and decide for myself how the course of my treatment will go. According to the government’s proposals, of course, there is nothing left of them, but the way of thinking is not that we want to direct an individual’s course of treatment. So why are we cutting off his freedom? It is the individual's freedom to say, look, I want to be insured with this and this insurance company that offers these and these services. I paid for it myself. Why we are prisoners of this smallness, that we want to lead an individual to an insurance company first, and this is our great monopoly with the ZZZS and then forward to health service providers. However, in case it happens that an individual has to wait longer for the first health care service, for examinations by a specialist, and then pay from his own pocket. And who is the most affected system we have today that I've just presented? The weakest because they can't afford to pay out of their pocket, because it's too much for them, and then they wait, they get sick, and they die. And if they get any more sick, who's covering those costs again? ZZS again. What's our proposal? Our proposal is just the following. To give people the opportunity to decide for themselves which insurance companies are going to have, according to their own conscience, this is their choice and to which health service provider. And if this insurance company says, look, we have this health care provider for the hip, there in Valdoltra or there, across the border, the individual will decide himself to go there. Let's give people a chance to decide, and they're free beings. Why does the state have to get involved in this? And with regard to public health, understanding what public health is and what public health is not. Look, public health is everything. Even those private people who work in the public interest. Public health is everything. Even that private dentist you're going to or a private hospital. It's all public health because it works in the public interest. And this separation especially in health care to some ugly private capitalists who break in, and on the other hand to some public doctors and so on, this separation is not fair, because believe me, without privates in our public health scheme, we would be further affected by the health system. But these privates are very cute now with such a inactive, “fake” public health care because long waiting types and ages benefit them. So if we have anything to do with this, first of all, let's clear up what public health is and what public health isn't. And once again, this, a system like this today, is not a solidarity health care and even less accessible health care. I don't care if I have access to a specialist examination, an orthopedic or anything, magnetic resonance after a few months. This accessibility doesn't convince me. If I pay for something, I want it as soon as possible, I want it now. And when we're talking about health, and I just fell in, I'd like to stress that. Slovenia is such a small country that it will be very soon necessary to consider whether we really need to have the structure, system, health network we now have. And we'll also have to go to specialized hospital institutions. We're too small a country to have a general hospital in every home village. We are too small a country and at the same time too rich to prevent good and quality health care for people, but not to collect stoppers for the treatment of our children abroad. We're too rich a country to do that. And another aspect, for the last minute, besides the health care we have to handle tomorrow, is the rule of law. No one will generously invest in this country unless he has his money in security. And the question is, our rule of law is working. Does our country of law work? We ourselves question the rule of law, once or still the president of one opposition party, and now the President of the Government has started to do so after the Supreme Court's decision. If we are to strengthen institutions, we must trust them first. But one thing is true, that this country seems to have people, the currents of people who are allowed everything, and people who, as your former secretary of state, are convicted of the smallest kicks, lose their jobs and end their careers. So we have in this country, it really seems, double criteria for understanding what is right and what is wrong. In New Slovenia, therefore, we want to change just that, it is said to make this country a fair country for all citizens and citizens. It is only righteousness for the bride to remain young [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Here and that citizens will feel equal. And since the election campaign is coming, it makes sense that we promise politicians because they elect us on the basis of promises. Look, this is how, if you want to look at the future, you also need to have policies that deal with the future and want to discuss it. If that's populism, then I'm a populism. If it's neoliberalism, then I'm a neoliberal. I buy, okay, but let's do more in this term, it's over, but in the next term in particular [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] talk about what tomorrow will be, what will be the day after tomorrow, and let the past be no longer of interest to us. And if we want higher salaries, higher pensions, we also need structural measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs. Erika Girl has the floor. Get ready, mags. Bojana Muršič and Mr Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Well, let me just start by telling my colleague from New Slovenia that people live better after this government. Why, how do you know that? It is known in their higher spending because they have more money in their pocket today than they had before this government. Let me get started on all those who may have just started watching this session. Today's Presidents of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are preparing recommendations on the future of Slovenia. First, with reference to the references, I have a question to ask which government. Both SDS and Nova Slovenija believe together that after the elections this government will be run by them. My colleague Tonin already publicly consists of a future coalition, so you make recommendations to yourself, colleague Tonin. Of course, the same applies to SDS. They've been on the stage a long time. If you ask me, too long, they have no experience, the programs are written, the laws are also, the credits are rented, there is only victory in elections and recommendations, of course. Okay, so be it. We've got ten of them on the table today. It is true that there is less interest in this debate, but not on our part, my colleague Tonin. Look, all the time, the page is mostly the proposer's empty. In fact, the only colleague Grims from SDS here is present, and he had more than a paranoid debate and not a quality one that would refer to recommendations. Now, I have to say that I've read it all, I've looked at it, and I must admit, you wrote it well, and I fully agree with your recommendations. Now, who does not want to eliminate waiting types, equality before laws, a sustainable pension system, an effective family policy, quality education, security. That's what we all want, Comrade Tonin. And that's what all the customers in one form or another have written into their programs. I'd say it's more than just a cheap pier today, but okay, we're on camera, people are watching us, and let's talk about the future. I have heard from the right side of this mandate many times that it is necessary to clear up the past if we are to talk about the future. Then let's take a look at the past. From a number of affairs, TEŠ6, a bank hole, Patria, only recruitment, to a poor economic situation, a steady increase in unemployment, companies have sold out, a decisive word in which they have had a leading policy, a high debt, an increasing inequality, a crisis in Slovenia that has been felt more and more than other countries in the European Union. So it is necessary to find fault at home. And who was home in the past? SMC's definitely not. It is a pity that these recommendations have not been written by the Government before us, especially those in which today's proponents participated. Slovenia was a victim, a victim of domestic politics, greed and irrational decisions. Let's take a quick look at what it's like today. Slovenia is ranked 21st among the 128th countries according to the Social Progress Index, second on the State Welfare Scoreboard among the 149 countries in the area of conservation of the natural environment. According to the OECD, Slovenia from all countries of the European Union has one of the lowest proportions of persons who could not afford health care for financial reasons. Save the children International announced that children live best in Slovenia. We share the first place with Norway among 172 countries. We have improved the competitiveness of the business environment and the attractiveness of Slovenia for foreign investments. We've reduced public debt. The cost of work has been reduced by at least 122 million. Unemployment fell to nearly 130 000 in 2014 to 75 000. The number of employees is increasing, most among young people. Bank credit activity is increasing, inflation is calming down. We record high economic growth and, of course, not only because of exports and investments but also because of higher incomes that promote private consumption. The results of Slovenian tourism are record-breaking. It is this government that has regained its independence from Slovenia's tourism organization with a clear purpose – the promotion of Slovenia. We have reduced the risk that in the event of a new crisis the consequences would fall completely on our people's shoulders again if you wanted taxpayers. And so, of course, I could count by tomorrow. Did we do all right? No, no, no. Did we do it very quickly? No, no, no. Did we do everything we had to do? No, no, no. That's why we have to keep working. There are clearly many challenges ahead of us, perhaps one of the key demographic changes. However, low productivity, which is 20% lower than in the European Union and, of course, we still have a high public debt. The results show that we can work, even without recommendations. And absolutely not without mistakes. We're not perfect, but we're good. And what kind of Slovenia do we want in the future? Green, healthy, fair, safe and digital. We want a Slovenia that is advancing and has a strong coalition and a strong government because the differences between us are not a barrier but a motive for change for better. This is a challenge for all of us. Unfortunately, we have customers who put a knife in your forehead on the other side of the customer who stab you in the back, which is a problem and a challenge for all of us. I did not say that just now because of the experience of this mandate. But as an accompanying citizen, I have been monitoring the work of the government and coalitions in all these years, and roughly the same has always happened. And this is the sad reality. And when we're more united when we're more for projects and not in style we need 2nd track, we're for 2nd track, but not that way. We need a third development axis, but not on this route, one by one. Yeah, we're for Magna, but not on this land, but on each other. And of course we're for wind power plants, but not on this hill, but on the other one, because the birds are dying on this one. Then we'll have a future, with or without recommendations. And Comrade Grimes, but the only representatives of the SDS are now missing. I don't hate you. We don't hate anyone. [[…]] I'm just feeling sorry for you because you're so bitter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. Matthew Tonin, proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u64	The Lady's emissary, an interesting debate. My coffees have shown that politics has more common points for cameras than for cameras. And if politics were to talk, then it would be quicker and more effective to come to a solution, that is a fact. In a way, when I look at the last few days, I would agree with you, if you have such coalition partners, then you don't need mortal enemies, that's for sure. But, Ambassador Girl, you've made up your mind, you've been the greatest one you'll ever take into the government coalition. You had multiple options, but in the end you chose. The recommendations are addressed to us, yes. I very much wish that we will be part of the next government coalition and that we will be able to write these things that you say you like and agree with them, we can also act. We are aware, however, that we will not have 46 votes alone and that you need partners to implement such a programme, and everyone whom these recommendations convince, sees in their sense, is welcome, and I would recommend that they be read in detail, that a Member of the Moon should be commended here, because I have seen before that our programme has actually read, and I hope that something will happen to him.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Bojana Muršič, prepare Mr Andrej Chuš and Mr Ivan Škodnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Vice-President, for your words, distinguished colleagues, Minister's or yes, Minister's Assembly. I really have to say that if we look at this room now as the inspiration that the proponent said at the outset is glad that it is so full, but today we can almost see that the ministerial session is almost as full as the proposalr's, so that here I am really interested in who this future is, this government I don't know, maybe someone else will be sitting in the next government, but probably not in such a composition, so I also ask myself in this place who this report is most likely to be to the applicant, but it also shows that we are in the pre-election time to present these recommendations or programmes. It is true that the recommendations that are on our tables today, before the day even on the home work body, may be attractive, and I would say so too, but when I actually look at these recommendations it would be fair to be equipped with concrete numbers and also with data, because what we would soon find that all these things are simply not known if they can be held up or in the next term it will be shown, so I hope that citizens and citizens are aware that the promise on paper without numbers and data does not hold up many times, as only actions are considered. Why am I talking about actions? The actions were carried out in 2012, with our unfortunate ZUJF, supported by the then ruling group SDS, NSI, the citizens' list of Gregor Virant, SLS and Desus. And what was reported at that time? This, these measures of the ZUJF have been received or felt by the most pensioners who in fact have been without the harmonisation of pensions, the regression has been what it was, including employees and young people, why am I talking about young people? Young people, because today's session is about demography. The uncertainty of young people was caused by this ZUJF, the parental allowance decreased to 90%, the parental allowance was limited to 2 average wages, the assistance at the birth of the child was limited to 64% of the net average wage, the children's allowances to the middle layer, even the free protection for the second child were no longer available, these were measures that had fundamentally affected young families and thus radically changed the situation of young families and this uncertainty. And these measures, which were taken in 2012, we also feel today, and although these measures were, they turned out to be right back in 2013, but with this government a number of things have changed. Indeed, demographic indicators show that the birth rate is only 1.58, which still places us on the European average, but we know that this is not enough for the Republic of Slovenia, and this birth rate should be higher. Why these causes occur is certainly more. Young girls are increasingly deciding for their first child, we have job insecurity, housing policy as they would like, and many times they are looking for themselves to do what they want in the future, as well as a suitable partner with whom they will create a home. Personally, it seems very important that you decide for a child when you think you can have it because you want it and not because of family policy measures. I think we both agree with that. A severely hurt child will receive love, understanding, and a secure family environment. Many families, however, opt for one child, but I believe that positive family policies can encourage a family to decide for another child. And so these negative demographic effects that were carried out in 2012 will have consequences for the next generation. Indeed, since 2014, several positive measures have been taken in this mandate. The children's allowance, as an income for the rights of subsidies, is not fully counted, but has been reduced to 20% of the amount for the first child, the child's allowance for the 5, 6, 7 and 8th income class has returned, the fathers are even entitled to up to 30 days of parental leave in 2018, which is certainly a positive impact on helping fathers to raise and care for children, as trends are changing, as fathers are becoming more and more, I will say, constructive partners in child development. It is also crucial that a universal allowance of EUR 280 was reinstated in 2018 at the birth of a child. I think that this is also a suitable measure to raise this birth rate, or at least fertility, of another child and every other child. Now, if I just focus a little more on health care. Today's system really does not allow timely health care for a significant number of citizens. Social Democrats have been a constructive partner throughout the drafting of health legislation, making proposals, but they have been heard several times, and many times they have not. And in our debates, we have repeatedly stressed what measures and legislation will bring about, and today, as the results show, I will say, the legislation adopted, which was absolutely insufficient. In this mandate, the decline in funding for the health system has somehow been plagued, for in recent years we know that health has indeed been poor. However, the chronic lack of funds from past years will show or appear in outdated technology, the forms of treatment are slowly lagging behind other European countries, and the network of health services and health institutions is obsolete, underutilised, fragmented, and it is crucial not to worry about the safety and quality of health services. This will need to be changed in the coming mandates. The key is also that accessibility to health services is extremely poor, and people do not get to these services in time. In this mandate, the waiting list has increased dramatically, almost 500,000 pending citizens to one of the health services, and what is crucial is that patients do not know enough about what quality and safety they can receive or this quality and safety is not monitored. It is very important that this quality and safety be monitored in transplant patients receiving organs. I believe that it will also be necessary to take a step forward, because the patient who receives the organ is certainly pleased, but it is necessary to know all the other indicators that are from behind. Therefore, it is so important that quality and security are monitored. It is unacceptable that more and more people are paying for health services, and I can only agree to this and I could support these recommendations in this part. It is crucial, however, that we ensure a universal health system, a solidarity and fair fund-raising, because the current supplementary health insurance system is not solidarity. We don't have a scale, we don't have a scale, we don't have a scale. Despite the immeasurable desire in this mandate to adopt health legislation, the Health and Health Insurance Act has failed us, because we have simply not come with all coalition partners and also the Ministry of Finance somehow to one level. It is necessary to ensure equal access to health services for all - this is my key message - regardless of the status of the individual. So we certainly should not be interested in the past, but the past measures that have been taken have left unfathomable consequences that [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] They'll feel the next generation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u68	Yes, it's interesting that health care is one of the points where we agree more or less. Now all you have to do is move from words to actions. Some of you have already had your chance, others, I hope we get it. But I would like to add another one to this debate today, which I think is extremely important for the future of Slovenia, which is the situation in our judiciary, our justice system. Because when a person speaks to people, they have a terrible sense of injustice, a sense of double standards that one is allowed for dedicated, large fish, and for small people virtually nothing or small people is being strongly pursued, while the great one can quietly walk away from criminal acts. It is a thing that angers people, frustrations them, works disgruntled and, of course, such people will never respect the institutions of the state, nor state symbols, or anything like that. For example, in this House, we have debated enormously what was the difference between Iceland and Slovenia. Each of us will give 2 000 500 euros for the rehabilitation of the banking system, nothing has happened. We've got bank investigators, we've got documentary shows, we've got law enforcement. When we proposed two laws, the Law on Courts and the State Prosecutor's Office in the New Slovenia Group, to organise special departments to prosecute these most serious banking criminals, see the fragment, the first hearing in plenary goes through, and in second reading, Mrs Murglov stopped it with a very intense debate. I'm sure she had reasons, she'll tell you what they were like, but I hope they're not what the CSI told me days ago, who said she was stopped by strangers on the street and told her to calm down on certain occasions that there would be no problems. But he works in the field of banking persecution and prosecution of these criminals. I want to tell you that policy here would have to do and create all the conditions for us to come to the most effective courts. At our program conference he had an extraordinary lecture by Dr. Matej Avbelj, who, I think, drew very well what was the problem of the Slovenian Slovenian judiciary and the Slovenian courts. He said that the Slovenian courts, the Slovenian judiciary still run in a socialist way, which means we have a bureaucratic structure, the boss is on top of it, then all the other judges, and that the judges below feel obliged to judge the way their superiors want, because they are otherwise marked and that this is the wrong approach and that the only real reform of the judiciary is to build a judiciary with truly independent judges. I do not agree with these bad judges being replaced by our judges now, this is not the right way. But it's the right way to build independent judges. And if we had independent judges, someone at the bottom of the hierarchy would also decide in accordance with the spirit of the law, regardless of what his superiors are saying to him. And even if we had truly independent judges, we'd be expelling bad judges, not covering them. The rotten apple should be eliminated because it is the reputation of the judiciary. These are not my findings that no one will say that I'm ever so clever, but smart, but I told you this, I think it's a very good lecture by Dr. Avbla, who's been doing a little more research on these things. He didn't say anything, and I'm not saying that all the judges are corrupts, bastards, incompetent, I know a few judges who work hard, do good, work hard, but the problem is that they end up being thrown into the same basket with those who do bad. And then you have similar stories, as they say in court, the natural order, that a judge who determines a system that determines which judge will judge a matter is a sort of order, and when a case comes to court, is assigned a judge from that list. But look at the fragment, what happened in the case of Koper? Luka Koper, he's got four cases for one and the same judge. I mean, I find it hard to believe it's a coincidence. These are things that need to be corrected in the future if we want people to really respect the country. Let's just look at the research on how people trust in the judiciary, what they think about the judiciary, and you'll quickly figure out what the situation is. I believe that the first measure to be taken by the probationary judge is not to abolish a permanent term, I have said the probationary mandate to see which test the judge is, whether he is capable of a truly independent trial and the second point is, the Council of Justice needs to be changed that the judges in the Council of Justice no longer have a majority because today the judges in the Council of Justice have a majority and they are practically proposing to themselves what we have here in the National Assembly to confirm them is just a protocol. These are two necessary measures that need to be taken if we want our judiciary to be more independent and truly ensure justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Procedural. Ah, Dr. Jasna Murgel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Dear President, I ask you to warn Mr Tonin, who obviously knows that I have not been reported here today and that he has somehow abused his right in one way and mentioned me in some context that is completely inappropriate. If I contributed to a marriage that was bad and that would cause something bad and hurt the court, I was just defending it. Others have decided as they have decided, obviously I have been convincing in this, but then insinuating that I do not know what is connected and that I am acting in some way, that someone on the street is stopping me and that now it is my questionable impartiality, please, I do not know if I misunderstood, but please, that the debate for such attacks, when you can't even defend yourself, is not taking advantage of the debate here in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mag. Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u72	Ambassador Murgel, I don't think your anger is enough. I didn't attack you. I didn't know you weren't on the list. I only said that you were the most active on that committee in the debates and that you certainly contributed to the fall of the law. These are facts, and all the rest I've said is a criminal case, not you. [[…]] I just said I hope this doesn't happen to you. / advertising from the hall/
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u73	Dr. Matić, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, chairman. Now, I'd like to ask myself first, since when is it possible to pass on the replica? That's the first procedural thing. [[advertising from the hall]] Secondly, I would like to point out that today we have some kind of pre-election advertising, which is the contracting authority of Nova Slovenije and SDS. Now they're sitting here, as I say, from two to three MPs. Most of the time there were two, and then sometimes there were one, and there were three. Now these two parliamentary groups, if we add them all together, have 25 Members. But here, as we say, we have some of the last of the Mohicans who still insist, and then they disappear, and they come back. And in this room, I counted 20 people, plus minus, because 1 goes and 1 comes. And my procedural proposal is that we all move together to a small hall in Tomšičeva and that we rationalise a little bit of what we have here today. I think it's going to be there, and they're going to turn on the cameras, and it's going to be a success, because what the opposition colleagues are doing here today is, let's just say, not serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Of course I have to say that mag. Matthew Tonin is the proposer, and whenever he raises his hand, he gets the word. So this isn't about procedurality. Here you go, Dr. Runcho, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u76	Look, I heard that today. Except basically me, well, I have to admit, tonin's a lot of you've all been doing a bit of pre-election stuff. [[advertising from the hall]] That's it. What are you all doing together now? You read there too, you read some statistics that fit you, the right part of the opposition beat you back, the rules of procedure allow it. In another, I don't know, the Korean Parliament is demolished by their national assembly for 3, 4 months. Don't make a theater out of it now. I sent my own home because we have next Saturday, and here I am going to be a little bit like you, pre-election program in the Shiška Cinema, all invited. Also, colleague Grimes, I have to check in, see if Comrade Grimes has any consequences now. What I mentioned to him told me more than half of the Members of the SDS can be confirmed by my colleague, Chuš. If someone hates the SDS or the gentleman who is usually absent, the people you are in the SDS, you just don't have the balls to say it, except for the few exceptions. That's what I have to say in defense of my colleague Grimes. In short, let's stop this charade with procedural and let's get this over with. That's my procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u77	Of course, that wasn't procedural, Dr. Duck. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u78	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. My procedural proposal is as follows. As chairman of this meeting of the National Assembly, please ask Dr Dragan Matić to apologize to all of us who he has appointed as the last Mohicans. My suburban citizens are telling me that I have to react. You know, if I come from the eastern edge of Slovenia, I am elected just like you, I am a representative of the people and of all the Slovenian people. I'm not the last Mohican! And please, I will insist for so long, Mr Vice President, that this will happen. What do you say we have someone here to share the last of the Mohicans? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Dr. Matić, please. Please, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u80	Yeah, now I don't understand. Didn't Mr. Horvath understand me? My comment didn't fly to the places where he came from. This had nothing to do with it. All I'm saying is that you are the last of your non-member groups to look at the empty chairs, Mr Horvat, in your and your friends from the SDS. You're not here, but you called a plenary session. In this sense, I have explained that you are the last of the Mohicans, because you are no longer in here. But it certainly didn't fly to your regional affiliation or wherever you're from. That had nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I said I'd insist, and I'll really insist. I said that my suburban citizens warn me and ask that I have to react because Dr Dragan Matić, my fellow Member, we are the candidates who are here, who called us the last Mohicans, it has nothing to do with Prekmur, you have insulted us, and for so long I will insist that you apologize, we are not the last Mohicans Dr. Dragan Matić and please apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u83	Of course I cannot reach if Dr. Matić estimates that no, but I think it would be right for Dr. Matić to say that you were misunderstood and that it would be good well, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u84	Once again, I would like to remind my colleague Horvat to look at the empty chairs around you if you are offended and offended by this fact, but I can apologize to him on behalf of his non-colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Tillen Bozic, please, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. I am also developing for one interesting duel, I, if I remember the same movie, it ends somehow by saying that one in one hand almost one army defeats itself and remains with one cute girl at the end, more so by relaxing this tension, which has now arisen to try to go back then, says in what is today, it is as if you said something about the future of Slovenia and so we are talking, I would just from the point of view of the Ministry of Finance some things say, it is in this paper that you can actually have great problems, especially for a small, open economy like the Republic of Slovenia, concern about the extent of the debt, about the extent of the true debt, what it is, what it is, also from the point of view of interest and so on, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is Now what this government has been doing at this time, you have highlighted in particular this debt and so on, and yet it should be stressed that the relative share of debt, if we look at the year, is true 2015, when we reached the highest share of debt in GDP when it was 82.6%, we are now slowly coming, I hope that at the end of the year we will achieve less than 72% of debt in GDP, which is more than 10% of the difference. Now why do I agree? It is necessary to put absolute figures on the table, but the fact is that when we look at countries when they function and even if we somehow simplify and put it at the level of some natural person, what this government has tried to do, is that it has taken measures in such a way that, if we look at the level of the natural person, the wages have grown and it is easier to see a relatively small share of its expenditure giving for these interest and meals. During this time, many things have been done, since debt refinancing, which has also achieved that the amount of interest that we pay has been significantly reduced, which has given us additional fiscal space and thus can be done well. If I look at interest rates, as early as 2014, which were almost a billion 100, some more than 800 million euros are expected to come this year, which means that we are in a situation where we have 200 million, I will not say that we have so much more money, but that we are giving so much less money for interest, which means that we can use it for something more meaningful. And why is that so important? It is important because each Government is in possession of it and when we talk about consolidating public finances, it must be borne in mind that the next recession is coming and that is, of course, to be prepared. And somehow the lessons that this country has taken or learned in all this time are also what we often say we are talking about, and perhaps sometimes it is hard to understand what a structural deficit is. It's something, I don't know, one science almost, but it's not, so if we're looking at the economy as a swing, it goes up, it goes up, it goes down, it goes down, we have to get into the situation that when we're somewhere in the middle, it's said, in a zero position, that we're going to raise about as much money as we need for the normal functioning of the country, that when we go beyond potential growth, we save something when we go down, then we spend that money and of course we owe it. In doing so, it must be said that one lesson to which I have pointed is that if we go to look at the period before the crisis, it is said when preparations for the next recession were actually taking place, and the fact is that this was at the time of the recession. The recession came there in 2009, a little later, but the foundation, the core of the preparations, was happening in the period 2004 to 2008, and when we went to watch what was happening, consumption increased and decreased, the part that was supposed to come in was falling. So when we're looking at the curve instead of being a balanced position in the middle, the equilibrium position is placed at the top of that hill, and if you do that, it means you've put the country in balance. It's precisely because of this imbalance, the virtues of this, that we can say, a calculation error, when there's obviously some misunderstanding about what super-potential growth is, when sub-potential growth is, etc., that's why we're in a situation where the fall was so much bigger and such a minor error in calculation was standing there at EUR 5,6 billion. That's not 70 grand on the model. That's €5.6 billion, and that's the kind of thing they know. Even if you go to watch during that period of gross external debt, we went from 15 billion to 40, and we're about there today. The only difference is how gross external debt is shared between the state and private companies. A large part of this has also been taken over by the state through the rehabilitation of banks. Now, and this is what I wanted to point out in some way, and when we talk about the future of Slovenia, to say that the consolidation of public finances, or after we consolidate them, of sound public finances, of sustainable public finances, is one thing that is important for the development and well-being of the country in the long run. It is said that we all, regardless of which government will be next, will have this in mind, will watch where we are and set up and balance our arrivals, public finances and public finances in such a way that we can also survive the next crises successfully, because the fact is that this country is not here because of the system, but because of people. So some of the other things that have been said today have been quite interesting, but a variety of these changes concern the burden of wages, etc. I think that in this house we are almost all alone, that it is internationally comparable and that is the fact that our salaries are somehow comparable to others, especially at slightly higher wages, and it is said that we have some manoeuvre space elsewhere in our property decision, etc. In the meantime, it was also said, one such interesting sentence, why the Republic of Slovenia would not be a tax oasis to bring foreign investments into the Republic of Slovenia. Currently, the Republic of Slovenia is not a tax haven and successfully attracts foreign investment. Because there was still a lot of other need for foreign investments to start coming back or getting stronger, and this is not just tax policy or tax environment. And if we look at what has happened in these major reforms or lowering burdens, because, for example, the corporate income tax, the effective tax rate has been there recently, more than 12%, 12,5 those countries that are there, and in some ways we are already almost taking them as tax havens, meaning that the Republic of Slovenia, with tax rates on corporate income, is relatively generous reliefs and the regime, it is said that you can endure tax losses indefinitely, that you can, in fact, have a 40% relief for investment, a basic asset that is unlimited up until you have a 100% relief to invest in research and development, which is also up-to-date, you get into a situation where in Slovenia, at least from the point of view of corporate income taxes, you are still extremely favourable. [[Incomprehensible]] Because if we go to look, it was said earlier, this Lex Magna, etc., but I have to be here in view of the fact that there is no State Secretary from the Ministry of Economy or Minister at this time, but their colleague here, who is accompanying matters, would point out that they were aware of this and, at a certain point, also brought to the National Assembly a proposal dealing with the promotion of investments in general. Thus, if we look at strangers as domestics, just because they said, in this case we should look at both, help should be given to both domestic and foreign people, each has its own pluses and minuses, and even when looking at which companies to come to Slovenia, we should always look at what also in the Republic of Slovenia solves certain problems. It is said that it brings significantly higher added value, knowledge, capital, on the other hand, even if we look at the possible area of Maribor that happened with Magno, there was a strong and still strong technical intelligence, with a certain educational structure and for them a solution to the measure of the place. From this forward, it is said, we can say that there is also an additional basis on which to build further, and there will also be an opportunity to develop activities with higher added values. So that there are some reflections back here, there are some approaches, some strategies, it's said, when there was work and thinking she thought in a broader context, that says what problems it solves and what perspective Slovenia offers for the future. And that's kind of the kind of thing that he's trying to follow. So that what has been said at the same time is that we should lower taxes and contributions and raise pensions. Now, that's right, it says, on the one hand, let's let go of the public finances, and let's raise the expenditure, and then something like this happens, we'll just fill up the tax register once, but I don't know where. And this, as it has been said, has already been empirically proven, and yet, in view of the future perspective of Slovenia, I have warned that such experiments, in which it was empirical not to end well with us, may even be necessary if I will ever have this opportunity, of course they will not be put back on their noses, because things need to be carefully reconsidered, recalculated and then go on from there. As far as debirocratisation is concerned, let's say the tax area, which is interesting, but you may not know, in Slovenia, about 70% of the goods for export go to Slovenia, 30% to the Republic of Slovenia. But what is interesting is that, in fact, legislation that has been regulated, and also with the reform of customs legislation, very many countries say the goods that are intended not in Slovenia, but in other countries, customs with us and this money, the relative share remains. Because we have good customs because it is well organised, it is well-informed and has the knowledge it needs. Thus, goods on board ships are generally treated with customs and paperwork before they arrive in Luka, when they come to Luka only take the containers which they have chosen in advance to a specific location, they are examined because, if certain indications are provided, everything else goes forward, undisturbed. So, not when the ship gets in, it starts grunting and finding out, carrying the papers up and down, it's all going electronically. The goods or goods are already being treated on the ship as they go through the Ottoman gate up there, the lists are, the team begins to work, and things are also being handled successfully. So, let's say from this point of view, customs are running things. As far as the tax area is concerned, work is being attempted, or it is somehow useful that there is now an opportunity in digital technologies. So you get already, and this has been a long time ago, as you know, for sure for this, at least SMC can't credit, for an informational calculation of income, which is a genius thing, exactly. And so it's not going to be, because I said, not the SMC, not roughly credited for it, but I mean, it was a good move and it's building on it. You also get now the calculation of contributions, entrepreneurs, to yours, to your e-taxes and so on will be done. Even after the issue of the tax registers was said. These have experienced real effects and represent for my concept also the first step into a future, says when we talk about micro, small enterprises, that you can be at one point, I don't know why when, if the financial administration already has all the data, you don't get an informational value added tax bill and so on. [[…]] But here we have to keep going technologically, exchange information a little bit better, work with taxpayers. Do they want this to help them, allowing them to do as little as possible with bureaucracy and as much business as possible? And digitisation makes it possible for us, we are aware of that, to say the Ministry of Finance, especially at the Financial Administration, which has also used, at the end of certain things through digitisation and simplification, for example, newer technologies, as regards the use of artificial intelligence, to see how this can be used meaningfully and wisely, precisely because it will make it easier for the debtors. So, as far as those tax burdens are concerned, and that they are now, I may have misunderstood one part of it here, but because it was said, "There is more pay for everyone, not just for the public sector." [[…]] But that came out of one discussion about taxation. I suppose that these higher wages were meant more through these "strikes", but as far as tax relief is concerned, I must point out, however, that if you look at the so-called "business performance award", it is said that the 13th salary is not in the public sector. This is intended exclusively for the private sector, and this achieves a somewhat more favourable rate through the exemption of income. The middle part of the scale has also eased and this is not just the public sector, it is also the private sector. In fact, the bulk of it fell on the private sector. Further on from here, the bottom of the scale has been taken care of when we talk about increased and general relief both from the threshold, it is easier to get inside, and it is also easier to become federal and does not put people in an unfair position if they deserve that euro more, but we have made a essentially federal solution there. So, it is working in this direction and I think that if we are talking about the future, in fact, whatever government will come, as far as the use of digitisation for the benefit of the debtors, as far as a reasonable or deliberate approach to public finances management, it will have to somehow follow these steps so that we will not later be hit with a headache behind the curve after needlessly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrey Chush, please. Prepare to be Mr Ivan Škodnik and Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u88	Good evening. Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I must say that I myself welcome the convening of this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly when there will be talks on the future, and I especially expect a speech on the present. Finally, I myself brought two six packs of beer to the National Assembly some kind of protest good year ago and made it clear how I felt about some debates in the National Assembly. Today there have been quite a few discussions in the direction of young people's problems, and you all kind of point out the fertility, the emigration, the education system. These are definitely key challenges and, above all, the problems we need to address. I see the expulsion of young people from Slovenia as one of the biggest tragedies of today, but unfortunately we have not yet found the right answers to prevent it. What is the perspective of young people in Slovenia today, if I ask myself? I asked myself that question, and the first perspective is a plane map, not for Germany, but for Canada, Australia, the United States. The second perspective is the opening of espionage and somehow the status of a self-inflicted poor man. However, the third perspective is the extension of education, most of which is seen mainly through studies because there are no jobs and so on. For young people do not want some subsidies and some of the measures we use to put the fire out have already burned down our entire forest, but we want to have an equal, equal position in society and the environment in which we can prosper. Here, of course, the state has kept it a secret. The problem is also that those who are so much more likely to find a job abroad are the ones on Ptuj, and I am especially affected by the migrant workers who go to Austria, Germany, and are even being punished or taxed twice. Unfortunately, the current policy has not been able to find a solution here as well. I would definitely expect or advocate for the establishment of the Ministry of Youth and Sport in the next term of the National Assembly and Government, which will somehow be the Office for Youth, which is a disabled body, as no one takes it seriously, takes it to the level of the Minister and gets the position in the Government. At that time, I think that young people will be able to say what they think and also make suggestions that will be heard. Actually, there's something to listen to, and there's something else to be heard. This government, I will not be completely critical, has done some good. We have to admit that, but everything wasn't optimal. Here I miss some progress mainly in the area of pension reform, the education system and security and could still be critical. I cannot agree with the critical developments of some members of Desus or the SD, who are here today as members of the opposition, but in fact they have nodded together for three and a half years and have built the fate of Slovenia. If we move forward, the environment should be a strategic asset and our treasure, but what helps us, but when natural resources are privatised by foreigners, we lose one third of the water already due to poor water infrastructure. And that's definitely a big problem. If we move forward, the Cross Valley, the Celestial Cauldrons are recuperating too slowly. Even though there is now one law that has been passed. Ecosystems and Kemis are laughing in our face because no one is responsible for anything. When we talk about some biogas plants in Lendava, for example, a person would feel that inspections even smell that smell because they don't act. And this is definitely where the inspection services have been kept secret. The middle layer is disappearing, and people are working are poor, and here I would like to remind in particular of the activities for closing trade on Sundays when people work after 12 days together, weeks, overtime is low paid if they are even and definitely there is a lot to do because this annex is really rotting compromise and it is certainly a tragedy that forces young people abroad. So, low competitiveness, low wages, the possibility of a better perspective abroad and the time is, of course, to start talking more about it, but not that, as today when we fight again, who is red and who is white, because, look, you have had 26 years to show what you know and people can't be proud of it, and I believe that you are not too. So I think even if I say it's a bit premeditated, it's time for the Greens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u90	Thank you, Chairman. The fact is, after four and a half hours, it is right to respond, at least to some of the allegations that have now been made. It is true that the Ministry of the Environment is responsible for water, air, sewage, municipal water. In fact, for everything that's not somehow assigned to other ministries. And if we are talking about drinking water or water used for filling as mineral water, soda is, of course, an indication that this water is privatised or used in the wrong context or used for pre-election purposes. Indeed, it is in this mandate that we have granted all water-use concessions which have not actually been awarded since 2005 that concession contracts, of course, speak of the fact that the time of the water drawdown is limited to thirty years and that, of course, even under the Water Act in the event of a shortage of drinking water, such concessions are first withdrawn and drinking water is provided for the inhabitants. It is also true that the work of catching not drinking water is still ahead of us. Some investments are now being made for these purposes. Then why is he waiting for us? As a result of climate change, it is certainly a quick transition either over the course of the year or over the course of a few years, therefore, too much rainfall and drought. And if we want to save the drought, this applies mainly to agriculture, agriculture is still in climate-related production, which is that year, so if we want to solve the drought, it is necessary to keep such precipitation water when the precipitation waters are too much and more than enough not to interfere with the streams that, of course, do not even have a minimal flow during the drought. I think that we have also agreed on this priority with the Ministry of Agriculture with the Water Directive and, of course, there will be some or more solutions in the coming years. I am most concerned about Pomurje, Prekmurje, there is also, of course, this problem with the lack of water for water to water, and I will soon meet representatives who oppose the construction of hydroelectric power plants but I think that what I am talking about is what I am talking about, so it will also be necessary to provide water for irrigation in agriculture in this region of Slovenia. Since it can happen now, the Lower Sava will have irrigation, then we have this retainer or this accumulation of Vogršček and there are some such solutions foreseen, at least in my time, but also, it has been for quite some time, and Prekmurje has been regarded as the grain of Slovenia and it is essential that we also ensure the possibility of irrigation in this area. Like our department, so worry, because we know Natura 2000 belongs to the provision of the Ministry of Environment and Space, so of course, and on the other hand old burdens, recovery of old burdens, the Ministry of Environment and Space. In air quality where we have seven areas, we have seven regulations adopted and we have been implementing financial, additional financial incentives for all these areas for several years to reduce pollution mainly in the winter months of the air. This is less of a joke than it really is, but the fact is that we were successful this year, not us, but in fact the weather that assures us that due to precipitation these PM10 particles are being washed away because there is no fog and this time this year is great for air purification, which does not mean that, of course, investments or co-financing of investments and care for these areas are not continuing. The scar is one of those areas where, in fact, it has been for several years, rehabilitation is being carried out. This year will be a thorough review of how much more problems there are in children due to increased amounts of lead and we expect that they will also be accompanying this project, which is perhaps what the National Institute for Public Health has found to improve this situation. Since I am alone at the Ministry, we have provided all the funds foreseen for this time-table, and this year we have provided an additional half-million euros to make up for the financial shortfall that has taken place there since 2011-2012. I would, too, slowly go away, there is no kind of interest in our topics and, of course, it is only right to say briefly, so with the construction legislation that will come into force on 1 June, some problems have been solved. It is mainly about planning, when we meet, say agriculture or some natural landmark, that this committee will be cut off from the government and then somehow said that it is possible, no, that is not possible. This seems to me to be one such measure for adoption, not only of municipal spatial plans, but also of state spatial plans. However, we already have over 150 municipal plans, I would say that in the review I know at least six more municipal spatial plans, which the mayors, whether they want or not, know for themselves, do not confirm on municipal councils. This means that the mayor must be interested in the adoption of municipal spatial plans, regardless of legislation. As far as the issue of building permits is concerned, we know that this story, which was in 2012 when, somehow, it was then only for unsolicited buildings, said, wherever it was being built, whatever it was building, let it be built. Legalization was later, of course, abolished. I am confident that, in providing a space where construction is possible, it is necessary to be prudent to allow investors to obtain a building permit as soon as possible. This means that now this existing building legislation is meant once again to enter into force on 1 June, building on these foundations, but not building on the basis that anything can be built anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor. Get ready, mags. Branko Grims and Mr. Marko Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u92	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Honourable representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members. Today we continue this topic on the future of Slovenia, which we have already started on Tuesday on the Committee on the Economy. Perhaps it was a little more varied, more lively, even with Mr Horvato at the time, but not so harsh, but I remember the words he said, that there was a session or a different one, which is to serve a purpose, if not another, that we should talk and come to some progress or ideas through conversation. And on this side, I'm sure that's the thought or what Horvath said, or sometimes when he says something, what he says, well, and I tell him, but of course there's something wrong, and I say it, but I think we always understand each other. Now, of course, I would say that everything is not so bad when a lot of things have been said. My friend Chus, I'm glad he said there was a lot of good. I also assess that in Slovenia, in this Government, which, of course, has somehow expired, we have provided positive and significantly different positions than it was three years ago. Now, who's going to say that it's not true, but if somehow we're moving around the field and we're talking to all generations, from those retired, middle-aged, working families, and, of course, also young people, we get different answers, and mostly things see that things have moved in a positive direction. Of course, it will be necessary to continue in the next government and through some 1, 2 governments it could probably also be that things will change substantially differently, including in those ideas, recommendations that have also been made by the proponents today, both New Slovenia and the SDS. Although I must say what many things have been realized in this mandate. The obvious or the effect of this will, of course, be only a few years from now. Well, earlier on, my colleague Tonin had somehow mentioned that a little man should be listened to. I agree. Maybe we don't hear it many times, but we should. I agree with him because I have this feeling for these people, and I get a lot of ideas about these people on the ground. So I agree that small people need to be taken into account, because many times for these people, however, time is running out. Young people, of course, are not so interested in politics. They don't like to talk about it, here and there, but they're particularly interested in employment, and we still have a lot more to do here, of course. But I am optimistic, also colleague Tillen Christmas mentioned earlier, the secretary of state, that foreign investors are coming. This is good, this means that things change for good, because even if investors were not interested and would not come, then probably Slovenia is not interesting and also, as we say, is not politically stable. Look, three years ago, three people were forecasting. That didn't happen. So there must have been a movement like that. Now I will also stop at economic growth, which I will not say is the third highest in Europe, of course I am proud of this and this is the essence and we can be proud and also the forecasts show that things will be good for the next two years, which, of course, will be for the benefit of the next Government and will also be able to build things that the former governments may not have been able to build, even though this economic growth has already occurred in the previous Government and is, of course, continuing. The very important information is also on which, on many occasions, the former Prime Minister of the Government has somehow repeatedly said that after 2009, we have the lowest unemployment, that is true, and no one can challenge it, because of the fact that data does exist. That we have somehow achieved a balanced budget, I also think that no one can challenge it. In recent years or this year, we have also supported science when it is often said that we are investing in science with certain means and education as well, and that things are changing in this area, of course, is also heard by the proponents of this topic, but of course more needs to be done in the field of education. Since teachers are of course very important here, I have mentioned, for the last time, also teachers who work in kindergartens, because this is where the first chain of education begins and, of course, also the education of young people. I'm gonna stop by practice for a while, why? Because there was a lot of talk in this mandate also by the opposition, especially by the SDS, that somehow we did not introduce apprenticeship, but of course this law was brought through and already in 17 and 18 we entered the first apprenticeships in Slovenia. Of course, I'm happy to see some future development of this apprenticeship in that it's a pilot project, if we went into the system to introduce all the programs across Slovenia and burden the economy, we'd probably come up with some problems that we've been grinding. [[?]] Even in 2006, when we already had apprenticeship, the issue did not survive, so that the pilot system, the project is very good, of course now for four professions, but the advantage of this is, of course, that the apprentices are 56 weeks in the economy and, of course, are trained there, the timetables and schedules are, of course, different from school to school, so that the total number of hours is fixed or in weeks 56 hours, so that I think they are good things. And what he said earlier, colleague Tonin, sometimes, maybe 10 years ago, and maybe even more was said in school, when parents came to school, I'll put him in school, I'll teach him something that he won't have to do, it really was, 100%, but today, the last five years, things are changing, and parents are thinking differently, and they're saying that you'll learn to work, because those who can work will get a job, and also this apprenticeship system will get somewhere, but of course we can get to one good system of apprenticeships that they have in Germany now, which is certainly among the best, but we will come through a period of years, and I don't see that we can't. Of course, in the past period we have also invested a lot in the modernisation of roads, and I think no one can deny that we have not overlaid almost even Slovenia in the last two years, which of course has run out, but it will be this year, so of course it is planned. However, somehow, I hope that in addition to these overlays of roads, when they were urgently needed, the investment of the second track will start soon, because those who work on the railway will be alerted, and I think they are right and this is, of course, also related to the economy, all the obstacles that are here, I hope that those who are also here will listen, and this is also one such good thing for the future of Slovenia. The second is also, of course, the third development axis, also there are opponents, now that everything is actually ready, they are somehow challenging that the matter would not come to life, there are more of them, but I hope that the people who are here will also be responsible to know and let go forward and allow them not only to guess that the things that are good in Slovenia, if we are talking about the future of Slovenia today, are certainly the third development axis in addition to the second track. Some, of course, have a terrible problem with why this third development axis does not go along that route as close as possible to Cel. I assure you that Koroška does not care where we get to and how we will get to Celje and also the economy is something in Koroška, but they are interested in how we will get to Ljubljana as quickly as possible and to Luke Koper. This is a very important matter. Now, in the SMC, we will continue our efforts to support development content and to promote further growth and competitiveness and maintain social balance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes, please. Prepare Mr Marko Ferluga and Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye to everyone again! Look, earlier it was said that culture was forgotten in these speeches. This is not true, of course, because in my speech on behalf of the proposer, I got the word, I have at least twice explicitly stressed the importance of Slovenian culture and the importance of preserving Slovenian culture. And that's why I should start with the question of culture. The first issue that has been addressed in the National Assembly is the issue of political culture. Why did it go to a personal level before? Something that someone starts manipulating statements, such and different, or that in a normal parliament in Germany, in Britain, in America, no one would ever think of it. This is just a reflection of a low political culture, which unfortunately is even worse when it comes to party levels. Look, let's say two examples of what she's doing, I'm going to be very direct, which is the second largest government party, it's SD, who's been making the appearance for months now that she's a side of the government, that she's an alternative to the government, even some government in the shadow of the institution, but at the same time she's in the government and this government from within the famine, and also what happened these days is definitely one of these, all of them. [[Incomprehensible]] And in doing so, the same party, which is always in the government, in this government, offers as an alternative and a solution to the problem. Yes Forgive what such can be sold only in this our love of Slovenia. If someone in America did that, they'd laugh all the way from the media to the general public. Someone in the government is responsible for her work and cannot make himself an alternative to this same government. That's absolutely absurd. It's manipulating people, and it's even worse. He's not the only one. Last time, something similar happened to President Desus, who said that they would now correct the injustices of pensioners who had happened to them in recent years. Yeah, wait, who's been in the government all this time in recent years? I'm the same Desus. That is to say, they themselves now feel most called to correct what they themselves are obviously conscious of if they say they were wrong, wrongly done. This is a matter of political culture. And then, that's also one of the reasons why we always come to a game that repeats itself with every election. Every time, just before the elections, there's someone who the media shows up as a new solution, a new face, and people are blindly following it. And then it's a terrible disappointment. In normal democracies you know exactly that you start somewhere on a lower level, like in the municipality, you go to a provincial level, if you prove yourself there, then you just trust the state level, and it's not usually in the first term. Such leaps that something pushes on the forehead and, of course, people are always disappointed. Now there were three of these schools. This is simply a reflection of the fact that the media do not lead to a point where people understand when people could actually experience or understand in some way what classical democracy actually means and what the question of political culture means. One of the issues of political culture is the comparison of programmes or, if you want, the confrontation of ideas. Today, many of you have said that this meeting is unnecessary, but the conclusions are destroyed, and you have destroyed them yourself. It is said that in the end we will not be able to decide anything. It is also a matter of low political culture. I'm sorry. Not then point your finger at those who proposed the meeting weeks ago, but then say, "Yes, because now the government is gone, now you are making your own plan for the future." Yes, the government was then, ladies and gentlemen. Who knew this would happen? Even your Members, ministers, after what we could have followed public reactions, did not expect this to happen. Then how do we know in the opposition that it will? But it's about confronting ideas, talking about the future, not the past, about the future. From this point of view, I have an entirely opposite opinion from those who said that this meeting was unnecessary. I submit that any regular meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia should be started with such a meeting or with such a item on the agenda. Maybe instead of those questions or right behind them. To just intonate and then, in this context, formed by such a confrontation of ideas, adopt individual legal solutions, for the country must be rebuilt, as Dr. Pučnik said. Democracy is just a path, democracy is not a goal. Democracy is the way you always have to make sure you're on the right track. If we go to the question of the future now, What is the first and fundamental issue of the future? [[…]] It's a matter of security. If there's no sense of security in the country, if people don't feel safe, then everything else, every welfare, everything will be meaningless. Security is a value and is at the same time a health. What does it mean to you? You only know when you lose it. For this reason, the first issue that we should face and which we have also made in the form of a recommendation is the need to protect our borders, to strengthen the pillars of statehood that bring security and to ensure the safety of every citizen, every citizen, every legal person in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. For the safety of every child, every woman. Everyone has the right to feel safe and no other right, no foreigner's right to be over this right of citizen, citizen, resident, resident of the Republic of Slovenia to feel safe in Slovenia. Then it is necessary to create an environment that will go in the direction of joy to life so that people can make more decisions for more children. Many of you said: “This is an individual’s decision.” Of course, but certain actions of the country, certain policies still have an impact. I know myself, and also, from my friends, colleagues, colleagues who decided on a very small number of children because they couldn't get to a large enough apartment and they said, "Maybe then we can get to the house and then we'll have some more." And then they eventually came to the house, but then there was no real possibility, no biological details for any other child. And then it's a tragedy. Here the country should find the right path, so that, not only is the child the greatest wealth, that it is something wonderful, that it is a value, but that at the same time the investment of this country, this nation, we Slovenians are the constitutional nation of this country. Each Slovenian child is the largest investment for the future of the Slovenian nation and the country must also support this policy and lead it. Not just in words, ladies and gentlemen, in actions, in concrete actions. When the next question is asked, these children, when they are growing up, have the right to education, to education, which must be such that the constitutional standard is fully fulfilled, that everyone has the right to raise children, for the school must also raise children, but that is in accordance with its principles and values in which he believes. It's a constitutional right. Just as education is currently being designed, it certainly does not. So, there are a lot of open issues that we want to solve. We also proposed a decision, a recommendation, you deleted it. If we move forward when these children go through education, get an education, the state has to offer them perspectives, they need people jobs, productive jobs, those who have an entrepreneurial cord need a country where they can unhindered their entrepreneurial vision and realize that they will be competent to compete, to be able to give their full development potential into entrepreneurship, to develop this company and thus to enrich themselves, but ladies and gentlemen, by enriching entrepreneurs themselves, they also enrich the country in which they live. Entrepreneurship must therefore become a value; entrepreneurship must be burdened. Taxes, especially those on work, are now far more absurd than in some comparable countries. Above all, the system is not stimulating, but it suppresses those who do something. It is only necessary to look at solutions such as those of neighbouring Austria. How to encourage an entrepreneur when he starts, how to enable him with tax breaks, much bigger and much wider than in Slovenia, to capture his breath, then gain something, nothing bad if an individual has something. For if the state makes a framework within which it will be able to operate legally and develop its abilities, it will develop its entrepreneurial vision. Unfortunately, this is not enough in Slovenia. That is why the most capable are going out, and what is a tragedy for the Slovenian nation, 5 goes out now and up to 10,000 of the most capable young people, young entrepreneurs, young couples, families abroad. This is the worst tragedy that's ever happened. And how to deal with it. It is necessary to release these development potentials, to reduce burdens, to make incentives, tax incentives, everything else, as a framework within which young people here in Slovenia will see the real opportunity to do what they want. They'll see their future. Ladies and gentlemen, do we have this? At this point, unfortunately, the situation is just the opposite. So much migration among young people is only strengthening. It's been a couple of years. And in recent years, it's been reaching terrible growth, 10,000. Somewhere. And then some, say Mrs Fajon of SD even wrote it the last time on Twitter, see the solution in this, yes, and we will import 10,000 migrants. Ladies and gentlemen, this is something that is completely contrary to all the fundamental principles on which this country was founded. It's unfair, it's unfair, it's subversive, but you could use another 50 far worse terms, and there's more to high treason. It is said that a foreigner must never have the advantage of a citizen, a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, but first it is necessary to take care of his own, especially his youth, in order to give him the right perspective and then everything else will have to be done. Of course, a social state is also needed if I continue to take care of those who cannot take care of themselves for objective reasons. But, even within this social state, you have to take care of your own people first. Slovenia also has homeless people, the government has been buying apartments and equipping them with glass ceramic plates and ice televisions for illegal migrants, for asylum seekers. Yeah, this is where it all stops. This is in conflict with fundamental common human principles, this is the false solidarity that has been trying to forge political points for some time, and some are still doing so, even though Europe has now begun to wake up in this direction and this must be done. The end of all quotas, the end of all imports of migrants, is to take care of its people first, take care of all those who are retired to have a third period of their lives, and care for the homeless must be taken care of with Slovenian children. According to last year's NGOs, I have repeatedly pointed out that there were over 30,000 Slovenian children who wanted to go to sea. That's what they need to be given. They have the right to have a childhood. They have the right to have a beautiful childhood. Yes, the government took migrants to sea and took pictures of them. This is not a policy that deserves any support, it has to be changed, in its foundations. And then, of course, the final question is how to drive the country, to be competitive and to maintain its role. I personally think that the only right way is for Slovenia to get as close as possible to the Visegrad Group, which is the most well-cooperating and able to set an example for the European Union, while at the same time striving to maximize its links with all potential partners. Security connections, economic ties, development connections. And, of course, here's the last problem, Slovenia is in the eyes of someone from abroad some strange red exot and it has to be done. Slovenia must become one analogue country to all developed democratic countries. An investor who looks at us from abroad will not come to a country where the entire state leadership gathers in the Contingencies and Paradise under the red flags, pictures of the mass murderer Che Guevare and sings that everyone there is thieves and so on. How's he gonna get into a country like this? And then he reads all the stories and accidents of the Slovenian judiciary and justice, and of course he is convinced that his completely legal and legitimate economic interest in this country will not be protected. And he goes elsewhere where he believes he protects the same values he trusts. That is why this is also a fundamental development issue. All these questions were raised in the conclusions, you destroyed all these conclusions, you voted "against". It's not possible to make decisions about them anymore. This is what we suggest, we offer this as a vision for Slovenia, as a development vision of a country where a child will be desired, where a child will be invested, where the child will receive adequate health care, because in health care there is a need to make order and also to create adequate competitiveness where he will receive adequate education, education based on values that will be true to European, centuries-old values. It is not just me, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr German of SD has once said publicly in this House, Europe will either be Christian or it will not be Europe anymore. Christianity is the foundation of Europe, so Europe is as it is. Of course, there are other sources of values from enlightenment forward, but the foundation is as it is. And this foundation is worth preserving, and this foundation is worth strengthening by properly establishing economic systems that must promote entrepreneurship and reduce red tape. For the country, what has happened in recent years is extremely bad and is now being re-formed under the so-called new faces. When you have bureaucracy that forms into a political party and then sometimes consciously or unconsciously, they have it as a value. That was nice of you to see at the government's biggest client. It forms solutions all by maximizing the strengthening of bureaucracy to impose new and new powers on it, to impose new and new obligations on it and to ensure that everything is resolved by the State. And of course, leftists are also very happy to support this because they see the only solution in an extremely strong country. This road is wrong. It is necessary to ensure to the individual that, by his own consciousness, by his own conduct, by his decisions to the greatest extent possible, he decides on his own destiny, that, as an entrepreneur with his vision, he can accomplish what he wants and that the state allows and opens up to the fullest extent possible a space for his own entrepreneurial vision and at the same time a path to foreign markets and appropriate cooperation, which also requires an adequate banking system that will not wash any billion Iranian money, but will, of course, finance the economy in a reasonable, transparent manner and of course, a judiciary that will judge in accordance with European standards, in accordance with human rights, in accordance with Slovenian rules and within a reasonable time. All of these are the foundations that we lay as a vision of Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, Slovenia needs this, Slovenia deserves it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u95	Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec and Mr Janez Janša. Mr. Marko Ferruga, I see you have a whole board with you tonight, Professor. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u96	Thank you very much. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u97	Today's exclusive, please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. [[…]] Yes, today, which we are persistently staying here, a nice greeting to the secretary of state, I have allowed myself to bring this "flipchart" to tell you this is the subject of the future of Slovenia. Now, first of all, we are today, we have to realize, it's Friday, so there's very little participation here, second of all, that the elections are coming up, and third of all, that today is also a free pear on TV3. So these are three important elements that we need to pay attention to when we talk about this. Now that we are talking about the future of Slovenia, you might want to look back a little bit and take a little look at what the red thread of the development of Slovenia has been now for 26 years. Unfortunately, you have to forgive me, I've been here in politics for four years now, bad, but I don't see him. Why am I saying this? Because every time the new government came along, it worked just as much as it needed for the mandate, it is said, if God had given it, for 4 years, if not less, and each one was driving his own business. Some of the old responsible countries, which also have a historical tradition, have this issue quite not only studied but already have it in their work of education, thinking work somehow carried out. So they know what they want, where they are, what their resources are, where they're strong, and in this direction they're somehow driving these things. Here, with us, as I said, the left government comes, is a little bit more left, comes the right government is a little bit more right, every time you can absolutely turn 360, the course of politics. I think that for some serious country or for some long-term development of this country, what we are talking about today is probably out of the question. These recommendations, made by colleagues from Nova Slovenije, are more or less clear and known. This government has tried them in some way, but the basic system that needs to be changed, at least in my opinion is this system of some values, I think we unfortunately have here a great flaw in justice, here probably will be quite agreeable on my right hand, justice is the system on which the trust of the whole country and citizens is based, justice is where it says and shows what is right and what is wrong. Unfortunately for us, this cannot be felt, and it is with us that all these responsibilities that judges have, their name already tells, if you are a judge, judge, then by your actions you somehow show what is right and what is wrong. In our case it is quite the other way around, in our case we avoid liability, in our case we somehow transfer these things from the Supreme to the Supreme, to the Constitutional, to the Left, to the Right Court, it does not matter, but it is important that we do not decide, and in addition we are witnessing these various legal acrobatics, that in fact from the content that should be, if someone stole this, we come to the fact that he was psychologically burdened, I do not know what that doctor has confirmed that it is that he is unable to monitor the sessions, that he is sick, so wait for the people of God, here basically we are sinning, but this is one of these matters. But I wanted to point out something else, but maybe I'll show you more graphically that at least those of you who are monitoring this might be a little bit more transparent about what I'm saying and doing. We are, of course, talking about the future of Slovenia. I think everyone somehow, because it's schematic, but you all recognize that it's the coat of arms of Slovenia, it has three heads, and it has the sea. And on this basis, somehow I would start thinking or developing the development of this beautiful country of ours. So it would put wood on the first head, this is our big raw material that we have 60% of the forests, and it would be possible to make miracles out of this wood and it would be education and all the subsystems up to, I'll say, developing a variety of specific, boutique, whatever you want, I'll say, industry, industry, industry, industry, industry, could develop on this basis and here to have this guidance. The next big thing we have, too, thank God, is water to a large extent. And here we have one of these elements, where we could go back to the level, which is that the micro, let's say, hydrocentre to the key were the best in the world, so all of this would be subordinated to the whole industry, the education, the staff, everyone would follow this. And of course, another thing that can be done with water is that we export it to the Arab country and because we have very quality water. The third thing that is so interesting when we talk about the future of Slovenia is tourism. Here we have taken perhaps the most steps at this time and we have become more aware of these natural things and here I think there is still a lot of room for progress. Again, as I say, all sub-systems of the state could rely on this and not say how many of these multipliers there are, the right options in all of these three elements, which we have more than enough, are based on natural heritage, cultural heritage, historical heritage and all that, all of which could be developed, could be the best, it is said in the restaurant, the best being in these tourist staff and everyone else, to start this tourism in some boutique matter. I know, it's like a direction for the future. The sea, true logistics, we're sorry it's God, I'll say it, we have logistics at some certain level, but we could develop it, because we have a geostrategic position, we have Luka Koper, who is this and we have this unfortunate second track that has moved in this mandate, at least something has moved, but I have to tell you honestly that I believe in some conspiracy theory more and unfortunately I have one such feeling that even within Slovenia people who deliberately stop this project. Now, let's not debate this. For the future of Slovenia, I think it is extremely important to change the electoral system. In my opinion, this system, which we now have with these coalitions, has shown that it has no added value, except that at least those who believe in some democracy, that this is supposed to be a democracy. Unfortunately, I can't agree with that. I think the electoral system that would be suitable for this small country of ours is the American system. It is said that we would be Democrats and Republicans and that within these two halves we would find these left or right options, however you wish. Then one of the things that we want to take forward in the future is the public sector. [[…]] A public sector where it is really necessary to start asking about their effectiveness and productivity. Now we've seen when they had this sentence that these gentlemen were so tight on the bow that they actually got to the point that all of this was lost. In fact, thank God it did and it didn't go forward. So, I'm very happy about what happened. The issue of wage relief is one of the issues that is always open and should be addressed here. We still have a lot to do with the debt recovery. Tax policy, where my colleague Christmas is, I will say, is interested in this subject and I think it would be the right one to show any further strategy of this tax system. And of course then we come to this demographic fund and pensioners and then this unfortunate health care that hangs in the air, but I think that the health problem is not just money, but that it is an essential problem to organise work, organise efficiency and redistribution. So, some organizers are working, if we got there, I think we could solve a lot of things. Of course it's interests. Trade unions are one of those things that we kind of draw from that system of socialism, and slowly these unions (from public administration to Luke Koper) somehow take over the management of society and suggest how companies should turn. Society as such and companies as companies. I think that's unacceptable. And if I go back to these social transfers and I think that if there is a country that wants to show that work is a value, then these social transfers must be directed by people to receive these social transfers when they really need them. [[…]] No, I'll say, like we do a lot of work, there's actually no big difference if parents are unemployed, husband and wife, and have two children to get almost a thousand 800 net incomes, while two employees, a father and a mother with two children, have a minimum difference, I don't know, 250, 300 euros. I think we should talk about these things if we want to have a vision of the future in Slovenia. Slovenia is also very strong in this blockchain and all these matters. This should also be supported in terms of education, in terms of favourable legislation, not by these legislations that we now have, which are practically intended and intended for some legal lobby to be fueled by it. Here I think it would make sense to start thinking as the engineers think. So you have a mechanical manual, a mechanical manual is the Bible for technical intelligence, and here you can find all the more important information. But with us we have 3,000 500 laws, one marriage binds to the other, one to the third, then we have rules, then we have no idea what, so we lose some concept and some transparency. It is absolutely necessary to limit legislation and place it on efficiency itself. That's what I said. We need to change, say, thinking in the ministries themselves. [[…]] Slowly this bureaucracy has accepted this role of someone, I'll say, a conductor who directs what laws they've given. So it happened to us and our Government, when these old structures were said, in fact, in the ministries they were just giving us these laws and after you asked: “Why is this law important now?” and “this is urgent and extremely important” and then you asked: “How long have you had it?” and they said, “I, two, three, five, seven years.” Thus, this logic of these people employed in ministries would also have to be changed if we wanted to make real progress in Slovenia. But to change in this sense, and here I return to my thinking about changing the political and electoral system, so that these ministries are bound to the government's mandate and here any government could put adequate people and the next government that would come would change itss and those who are professionals would stay, but others who are politically placed or set up or from a political point of view, but unfortunately they should go there. If we want to take some steps and make some progress. I had this opportunity and this opportunity to read these strategic guidelines for the sectors of the Slovenian metal production industry by 2022. I think there's a lot of smart stuff here that's been written and exposed, it absolutely turns out that we have trouble finding the personnel. This is increasingly exposed, and this cadre, which we are educating and here also needs to change the mindset of the Ministry of Education and focus education on programmes and things that will be in the future and that will be smart for these matters. And absolutely, as I say, there is also a need to add to all the other changes that await us, what I have already mentioned is that demographic changes, then accessibility to various credits are facilitated, and somehow have an opportunity to stabilise the prices of input raw materials, and to stabilise somehow the instability of the raw materials themselves that are needed for production. Here is a large majority of the production cases for the exporting company, for those who produce. The same brochure was published by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and many others and on the basis of these matters and some common policy here within us could take big steps earlier if we want the good of Slovenia. However, if we want this status quo, which is already 25, 26 years old and these coalitions or left or right, then we are doomed to be creaking here, we will argue here among ourselves, some substantial, essential added value, essential importance in some future and look and regrettably will not be. We can be satisfied with this, but now it depends on our ambition, our pro-activity or whatever you want to call it. I think Slovenia deserves to have the opportunity to be another Switzerland. I think that if we are constructive between ourselves and rational and that for a little while we will move these political plots and games and this hypocrites and this duality, we, as the people we are in politics, can take good steps forward, make some great opportunity for the younger generations that are here and here in that our structure of people is old, there is also another huge opportunity and some symbiosis of coexistence between young and old, we have good examples of practices in the Netherlands where young and old somehow associate, they have in the same apartments and social policies that are appropriate and everything else. If we want to be progressive or if we look at, say, Estonia and these smaller countries that we can compare ourselves to, anything is possible if we have this, first of all, political will and second of all will to make these changes. But we can stay on that we want something, but we pray to God that nothing will come true, that nothing will move and that we are in this comfort zone, that we are beautiful on the couch, and that we write a variety of tweets and Facebook and stay on it. So it's one big, hard thought. This government has taken certain steps, I have hoped and wanted us to be even more ambitious and more, I will say, more quickly because I am coming out of the economy, this is mine, I will say, this flaw in the politics I have, but it is a matter of debate, if that is what we want. And also the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I think that we would be able to rationalize ourselves and do more effectively than we have sessions just to be sitting and throwing on our home work bodies, and then we repeat here twice as if we were, we would say to Primorski, from Strunjan, Now, if we want to make serious changes, we can make them, but that's a big question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u99	[[From the hall]] Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u100	Procedurally, mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. Look, first of all, I think that this was an excellent proof of what I said earlier that we should start each session with such a agenda item, because now we can agree and disagree, in any case we respect his opinion. She was interested in a long debate, this table he was drawing across the street, an awkward thing is only if it's someone who's a Member who's been in power for four years now. None of what he was talking about at that time was, unfortunately, realized. But we would really need this, obviously for intonation when legislation is specifically adopted. But what I wanted to warn you, which my colleague started again with, is that the next one, which will start again with how many of us are in the hall or not us, is to stop it nicely, because the extreme of how good it is to see it there at SD. Mr Škoberne began that he obviously did not care about the future of Slovenia, and he laughed, and now he is not even in Parliament this afternoon, but there is a bench of representatives of the SD has been completely empty for a very long time. And it doesn't make any sense to make the wrong impression on such things. Who's interested in the debate is here. Anyone who can do anything else at this time may be in the office. That's the nature of the mission. But if anyone's not interested, that's why he's responsible for the electorate. We, however, propose that we do our work properly and that, of course, we face the view that we are talking about things, not about people.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u102	Thank you, Mag. Grimes. What to add, a comment suitable for pre-election time. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, you have the floor to prepare Mr. Simon Zajc and Dr. Dragan Matić. Mr. Fox, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u103	Thank you, Vice President for your word. My friend Marko, you're one of those coalition MPs that I really appreciate very much, well, for the first time, you don't read from the sheets, and what you say, I know you believe that, too, so there was an interesting listening from this town, or maybe too wide, but I believe you said what you believe. First, a few questions about the need for today’s session, or today’s point of how it is pre-chosen and so forth. I personally think that we should have similar meetings at least once a year, but at those meetings where the presence of all Members would be mandatory. Although the themes are very broad, as many of us have said before, the recommendations are very broad, but this is the intention of us Members to discuss. Our task is not to do, unlike all other professions, what individual professions do, but to do what concerns Members. Now take advantage of this, pre-election time. The Group of Members and Members requested this meeting on 6 March 2013 2018, when Mr Miro Cerar, according to his words, was still in the saddle, that the President of the Government said that he firmly in the saddle the words of the SMC Congress were four days later, on 10 March, when he said two sentences: The work should be done until the end. [[…]] And the second sentence: calm and stable forward, new start, new victory across the street, better for everyone. And this same president, who says how to do the job to the end, and how to be calm and stable, and go to new victories, resigns in four days. And then the Members of the same coalition read how we're going to fight the election. I was lucky or unhappy that I was on one of those days, on one of those TVs, when a minute or ten seconds before the turn-off, we didn't know what the President of the Government would say, so much about this concern for the future and stability of the country. When he kept the whole country in check for those three minutes, when, unlike some serious democracies, he did not inform the coalition partners about what he would do, because this is usually done, he said three quarters of the Members and SMC's leadership did not know what would happen, but it did what happened. And that's very interesting, because, as my colleague Branko Grims said, we could have expected that the turbulent times in the last three months of this term, when the first meeting in January saw that they were all screwed up, we were in 2018, we were in an election year, but then this mutual dissension started. But interestingly, not so on the sidelines of the coalition, the opposition, but on the sidelines of one party in the coalition, another party in the coalition, a third party in the coalition, and then at the SDS Group meetings, we warned that there was something that could be done, because so many coalitions of boys and girls from all the winds we had not yet, but I said this about the previous government that we didn't have such a broken-down coalition but I obviously didn't make a mistake today and I don't dare say that we won't have such a broken-down coalition in the next term. But the date of the elections is about known, but there is not much time to take certain systemic measures, but we can tell them. And here I agree with my colleague Ferlugo that we have one problem in Slovenia, which is called the electoral system, here I agree, otherwise I think that my colleague Marko is an idealist when he advocates the majority system, that there will probably not be a problem in the near future, but after the next Government, I hope that if one of the right Governments who will want to work seriously will also take this proposal of a recommendation from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the future of Slovenia, it will be necessary to take out another point, one of these also the electoral system, and a few points I would personally add to it, and about which I will also talk about. It is interesting, however, that today, mainly from the point of view of the SMC Group, we have experienced the pogroms of what you are doing in the New Slovenia and the SDS, what you are saying about the future, because before us is the pre-election time. And I myself remember those PR projects in the form of different pictures of how we will live in 2030, when they will be very smiling, and in 2050 we will be in ecstasy and there were only pictures of happy people without three concrete measures and the coalition itself applauded, see how we are the coalition, representatives of the government and maybe some government officials are happy and proud because we know what will happen in 2030, what will happen in 2050. Since then, when we have been at individual meetings or here in the National Assembly in adopting legislation or at many of the necessary meetings, even if you want to ask the same representatives of the same Government in intervention laws, what will happen within three months, within half a year, one year, the next term, they have looked at how you feel, because we have a strategy because we will all be happy in 2050. However, some measures may have been taken and three months later, when, for example, positive measures are to be taken in the agricultural field, we see that no "will" or "will" of these measures in practice. In short, even what the government has prepared to do, what we Members by pressing the "for" button of what kind of law the same officials who in their own laws have given themselves in order to settle it within three months, there is no answer why it has not been done. If this is the future we're talking about, then we all have a problem. Not only do this composition of the National Assembly or this Government have a problem at ministerial and government levels. For let us be honest, rather than the representatives of this ministerial team and these compositions of the National Assembly, officials create much more policy. I think there's one of those concepts that's going to have to be reversed someday. Not that we want to talk about whether we want a slim and I don't know what government we want, but that we want a functional government that doesn't set people up but will work for people. And that she will work for people not in the sense that the intimate desires of some are to be Venezuela but that intimate desires are truly a self-sustaining and advanced country. And one of the first things I'd like to point out is this, red tape, which has been mostly talked about in recent months. Let us see some facts in this phase; April 24, 2017, 11 months ago, the request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, the SDS Group, the first and only point: the proposal for a recommendation on the administrative burdens of citizens, farmers and entrepreneurs and the continuous deterioration of the business environment in Slovenia. When we say, look, we have 20,000 rules, that's insane. If we had 15 thousand in 2011 we now have 20,000. Over the past six years, we have made 5,000 new laws, especially regulations and, above all, regulations. These are the rules when people come to the office, and probably not only to me, but to a lot of other MPs when they say what you've accepted. And we say, yes, sir, ma'am, what we've accepted, we must be guilty of something. Yeah, you took it, I got the decision. It reads, "on the basis of the law", and then follows, "and on the basis of the regulation, regulation and regulation, regulation, regulation, regulation" is a unit of measure, there would be fictional, and the lady is not in the mold where an official reminded him and where the minister confirmed him. And here I must say, even though I know that Mr. Restoration is coming out of the economy but the distinguished Minister of Rest, if you are listening anywhere else, those short videos of your "stand" signatures are distasteful. It's distasteful for a minister, which means from the average citizen's point of view, that you have no idea what you're signing, but you're the main loser because you're signing. This is irresponsible because you never know what you are signing, and all of this eventually comes before the citizens in the form of some new bureaucratic obstacles. And when we said 11 months ago in 2017 that the number of regulations had to be reduced, what happened? In addition to the three intervention laws, I think that which we have adopted, which are still somehow understandable, although these three intervention laws would not be necessary if the Ministry of Environment and Space adopted a system law or amended it, not a new regulation but amended, the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters. No, at least the members of the Committee on Agriculture had to adopt intervention laws where, I quote, the Government wrote: "systemic solutions are not needed for change." But besides, we got no system laws. Laws of lex specialis in the field of economy, in the field of agriculture, in the field of certain other ministries and a great deal of sub-legislative acts. Since that meeting, 300 new regulations have been in the form of some 10 laws, close to 100 regulations and more regulations. Only in the last 10 and 11 months do not change existing laws, regulations and regulations, new laws, new regulations and new regulations. Is this the position of an average, normal, decent, honest citizen regardless of whether he is a farmer or a craftsman, or is he an economist, or is he in the public sector, or is he a public administration, or is he an independent entrepreneur, or is he a culturer or anything you want - is this normal? It's not normal. And then today we hear the Minister of Public Administration how great we are. We're three times worse today than when he was a minister I only valued for one reason because he knew what an anti-biocratic program was. And in that mandate of the notorious first Yanshea government, this was happening. And more than once, even though I'm not politically on the same shores when I read some of his tweets, what everything in the world is going to do about reducing bureaucratic barriers, we're doing exactly the opposite. And today says the Minister of Public Administration, we have improved not everything, but the respected Minister Koprivnikar, I believe that you have done something in the field of public procurement by making an even greater “mushroom” that not only do you have an information system, you obviously also have, in the clouds, you also have a lot of other things in the clouds where here on earth and not in the clouds are people who are warning us over and over again, without being bad and wrong and I don't know what kind of regulations, regulations and laws are in 2005-2010, not that are new bureaucratic procedures over the last few years. And interestingly enough, in the last couple of years, the SDS hasn't been around. At least in the last five years. We've also adopted some kind of rule, but if you look at what we wrote in this piece of paper, it's exactly what's being shown. For the last three, four years, it is obvious that some bureaucratic spirit has come to grips with the government and, above all, with ministerial chambers, where perhaps there is a minister, the Secretary of State, who is probably sometimes asking whether this is really necessary, and most others working as shown by Mr Restoration in his interesting and more tragic vision when new regulations and new regulations are brought, fortunately, not even the new penalties imposed by these laws, regulations and regulations. [[Incomprehensible]] And look what we wrote in this extraordinary meeting about the anti-biocratic burdens. On the basis of economy, crafts, farmers, local communities and ordinary citizens. But interestingly enough, when the government said that it was irrelevant what we write that they were regulating it, we could go from the point of view today, from the Chamber of Commerce, from the Chamber of Commerce, from the community and from the union of the congregations, as well as from ordinary citizens, that it was mostly the opposite. Not that it went into an anti-biocratic programme, but this anti-biocratic programme not only increased in the number of laws and regulations, but it actually increased in those problems that are called when people ask why the devil needs it, what does it bring us, because when Mr Koprivnikar tells us how something was super-adopted and how something would be easier, people come to us, and they say, it is now twice as complicated as it was before. And earlier, Mr Koprivnikar said, we have dozens of new services. Yes, dozens of new forms he forgot to say that people were wondering, there was one form before, there was another form now, and we invented another, if not different, but we named it a little "al" carriers and bookkeeping documents and so on. In short, Mr Koprivnikar has made many promises, but unfortunately he has remained in the information cloud and has lost himself far from the reality that we are living. However, not to say that I am saying this in general, I must say that, at least as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, I was this week, first this week at the annual Council of the Association of Slovenians, and today at the election assembly of the Union of Forest Owners, because people come from agriculture, not someone who talks about agriculture, but someone who performs agriculture. And just to go to the bathroom, five people behind me, what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing, and you're not normal, and you're not normal, and I say look, I understand, I'm the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, and I'm just one of the 17 members, and he says, yes, because in fact, the ministry is not following us. And this same ministry, which is talking about the common agricultural policy after 2020, is planting flowers, making problems in 2018, and let us let these problems have even worse aspects in the long term in 2019/2020, so before the flowers start planting. And who's planting these flowers? Minister, who has been for the past 10 years except one year if we leave aside that the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture was, how many? Six-year-old minister. He plants flowers, and agriculture weeps. Today I, on behalf of the National Assembly and even on behalf of the Government at the Election Assembly of the Forest Owners Association, had to apologize to people who sometimes do not separate exactly what is enforceable, what is the legislative branch of the government and after the State Secretary of the Ministry went away, but of course the point that is usually left by ministers and state secretaries, the debate on reports and proposals for further action, and you in Ljubljana, you in Ljubljana, you did not listen to it, you did not listen to it, you did not listen, you did not respond to it, and so on, and they looked at me, of course, because I was at the table for which the Secretary of State had left an hour earlier, when the first remark that the Ministry had not done something, but he said a little bit that he had official obligations. No, the minister or secretary of state did not listen to problems affecting agriculture and red tape. And this is the Secretary of State, the same coalition that says today that the debate on the future is not necessary and tells its people not to think about the common agricultural policy after 2020. And this is the same State Secretary, who is a great advocate of one state-owned enterprise, and he does not personally care, and this is the same State Secretary, or the same Ministry, who does not support any decision, because they are opposition, how can we talk about the future if they have a problem with the future that they are now creating and even want to be part of the future at this pre-election time. The next thing we're talking about the future and which I think the electoral system will have to be talked about here is a colleague of Ducks, who is one of those who, at least, I think we agree several times here, the area of local self-government. This mandate has dissolved local self-government, and with every third law, I will be honest, fourth not to be demagogic, something has been given as an obligation, either as a task to local communities or directly to municipalities or to institutions that belong near local self-government. This was not followed by finance, so, in this mandate, exactly what modern European countries are doing when they go into decentralisation, we went to centralisation. And when I've asked the various ministers several times, because you have in the coalition contract that if there is a political desire, we will think about establishing the provinces. And it wasn't any of that. Nothing, nor have we come to a substantive discussion of what the landscapes are, what their tasks would be, what their obligations would be, how much more serious discussions would be about what that first attempt marked when instead of the content people started talking about who would go either chief or king or I don't know what their region was, and that each one of you would have its own regions. In short, the minister who promised at the first meeting will discuss the provinces in concrete terms, then he slept for three years and seven months and did nothing. And that is why I think that there is an urgent debate, and not so much, I stress, that we are Members of this mandate and not ministers of this government, but all those crowds, especially government officials, I come from the FDV, and sometimes I am proud of it, but sometimes I do not, who separate what public administration is, what public services and the public administration are, because we had to learn this definition from that author and so on for at least 10 years. In short, I think it will be necessary to sit down and say what politics is and what civil service is. Because we can refer here to not knowing what extraordinary meetings, emergency meetings, writing what laws are, but these laws are sometimes weak, to which we or the Law-Legislative Service of the National Assembly or any court, regularly or constitutionally, but then from these solids, I do not excuse myself or us in this Chamber, from which comes the regulations that are already written, but there is only, I would say, a little of that, uh, it will go to the government, we have to be a little careful, and then we follow the rules where we see them signed, not Mr. Rest, quickly, 10 pages, we leave, people will survive what I have already signed in one minute, 10 acts. In short, we're going to have to decide what state administration we want. And I'll finish it slowly. What kind of government do we want, and we can seriously think about it when we change the electoral system, when not every debate, every session, every law that is intended exclusively for this, yeah, we're on this side, they're on this side, I have to be liked, but I have to be liked by that. Once there will be a debate when there will be people sitting in this National Assembly who will know what politics is and what government is and what it will bring. Because I have a feeling, with all due respect, that sometimes someone is discussing in this National Assembly, which has no contact with reality, that they are not talking about a sector policy that is very broad. And personally, if I still have the option to co-create in any way, I will propose to the next government, whichever will be the first to embark on two serious systems that will pass on, that all of these conclusions, which have been or have been proposed, will be very well-intentioned from all areas in order to be better realized in order to reach out to the two moments immediately at the beginning. One is a serious debate about the provinces, not going in the direction of centralisation, the other is the anti-biocratic programme of implementation and speech and the third, I miscalculated, the third thing, the change in the electoral system. [[Incomprehensible]] Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u104	I'm going to read all four more of the reported debaters. First, Mr Simon Zajc, followed by Dr Dragan Matić, Mr Janez Janša and Mr Jani Möderndorfer, as the last. Mr. Zajc, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u105	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all. I will start where most of us started by asking whether this meeting today is a pre-election EPP, it is a pre-election meeting, it is a meeting to gather political points. The answer, of course, is yes, because we are now so close to elections that in fact everything we are doing is some pre-election EPP, some pre-election contest, a fight, but in politics it is also true that the campaign starts the next day after the elections and you are all well aware of that. As a result, we had several urgent meetings on various topics throughout our term of office on various recommendations, and we had interpellations. Of course, and we didn't have to use it that much because we got the country into our hands when we had over 120,000 unemployed, when we had more than 5% of the budget deficit when the three of us threatened, then we had a migrant wave. We had to deal with these problems and we did, and we did. Today Slovenia is doing well. All these problems have been solved in the circumstances of the most powerful, good and human way, of course, critics and election campaigns have been coming all the time from the left and right, but that is the case. And today, people forget what it was, what has changed, how much better it is today, and one of the questions that I've heard many times today by the proposer is how people now feel that we have economic growth, where people don't see it, and it repeats and repeats itself, and that people will really start, and we really don't see it, because there's nowhere to go, but it's not true. People see it. If not others, more than 10,000 people who have a job today see this, but in 2014 they were unemployed. These people see this progress in their wallets, and this also shows that domestic consumption is increasing, that we are also getting better forecasts of economic growth because people feel this progress, that growth today in their wallets, and that is then passed on to consumption. So that people can feel it. You can convince them that it's not that no one notices it, but the facts are different. As a Member, I also cover the Municipality of Kočevje for our client. And Municipality of Kočevje is one such beautiful example of good progress during this term. [[a voice from the hall]] Thank you. And Kočevje is such a beautiful example. I remember the first time I went down there for the first time in 2014, I was talking to the locals and what the atmosphere was like back then in Kočev. Nothing can happen, everything is terrible, Ljubljana has forgotten us, the country doesn't care about what's going on here. Today, after four years, the atmosphere in Kočev is completely different. People, not only do they know each other in their wallets, they know their way of thinking. Today they are optimistic people, today they know that the next, already in progress, next year they will get the railway back, they will connect faster with the centre. [[…]] They got Yaskawa and this is one such movement that really made a big change in consciousness and in the very consciousness of people in Kočev. And why did this investment come about? I always listen to this, all of this growth, all of this has happened on my own because of all the circumstances. Yes, even because of all the circumstances around the world, but not just because of what we've been doing. I remember when I was in Kočev when they laid the foundation stone. What did the director of robotics say back then in Yaskawa? They had more options where to go. Everyone offered them about the same encouragement, but the reason they came to Slovenia was one. Good response and good cooperation with the Slovenian Government and the local community. This was what we needed, and this convinced us that we have a good partner, a good interlocutor, and that what we agree on is going to happen quickly, and that's what we're doing. And you're saying that this government has nothing to do with some development that we're recording right now, but it's not fair. He doesn't have the credit for everything, but he's got a lot of credit for it. Now, if I go to this topic of today's session, say, the future of Slovenia, what we have to talk about, which issues should we find solutions to. In the future, I think we will be fighting the most in Slovenia or dealing with the most two things. One is a common, whole circle, these are the climate change that is happening and we feel. We can't make sure this isn't happening anymore. If we don't believe it, we can ask farmers what they think about whether or not there are climate change. The second is that we are turning into a long-lived society, which in itself would not be wrong if we knew the conditions, the way of life in Slovenia to prepare and change in such a way that, although we will live for a long time, we will live a quality life. This is said to be healthy, to be healthy, and to be assured that we will not be afraid of some security in terms of where we will be, who will take care of us, and so on. How do we do that? In order to achieve this, not to fall into a long-lived society where we would have many elderly and sick people, but that these people are still vital, that they are still thinking about contributing, that they are happy to live in Slovenia, we need to start acting now. First, we need to make sure that we are healthy and healthy. As the Secretary of State for Finance has already said, we have a lot of options. For example, tax rebates, which are shown to be so bad, can be used to encourage people to invest in education. It is said that all the time of life they invest in the fact that even the brain works, in sports, in movement, in culture and when we have these systems set up, when people pay extra for these services, we as a country can take this into account in a way that discourages them from income and thus encourages them, let's take care of them, otherwise at this point you get a little less tide, but in the long run you certainly have profited. [[…]] Another way I suggested it myself, while under another law, is to finance these activities, which we can understand as preventive measures, so that people do not resort to less healthy ways of spending their free time, is by drug [[?]] And so on. The law that I proposed introduces precisely this – that we take money that we do not collect now, is that we take money to the black market and bring it to the legal market and with this money we finance such culture, sport, movement as all these activities that ensure that our people are safe and healthy, not that we close our eyes and pretend that people are not using cannabis and that they are not putting money on the black market. In short, there are solutions that are already being proposed today and that will also need to be further considered and made sure that we are better at prevention and that we invest more in prevention than then in curate. It is said that we pay for people and services that make us healthier and then we do not need to pay for services that correct the consequences of unhealthy life. Another important thing about healthy life is nutrition, of course. We also come here in connection with climate change. In Slovenia, we will also have to make a more painful decision about where we really want to eat in agricultural policy. Today we know where we are with self-sustainment. We have surpluses in milk, beef, and so on. This is also, of course, conditional on the relief of our country, but we are acting as if it does not matter that where there is a possibility of being more self-sustaining and where we also have natural duties to increase self-sustainment there. We do not invest in this; we continue to invest in the grass, instead of turning our minds to the fact that we need to look at agriculture differently because we have climate change. This is said to be no more pollination, no irrigation and no more greenhouses in the future of agriculture, which means that in today’s picture we must say: “OK, one limit in large farmers will have to be drawn from there, and from there we will channel money into exactly these changes.” And these changes happen — when? When you have a generation transition. This means that young takeovers will need to be invested in and fight against these climate change. We will have to go this way, but this will be painful, because many people who have become accustomed to this way will not like it, but for young farmers we have this opportunity to turn our minds and invest in what will save us in the future if we do not always depend on such a large percentage of imports. Then we heard now about the birth. Birth is such a difficult problem. Some promise not to know how many thousands of euros at each birth, but in my opinion this does not solve this problem, because today if we look at who has the least children in society, they are just more educated, better people. So this fight against ours, against the fact that we are getting smaller and smaller, will of course have to be multi-layered and one of these layers is, but if someone likes it or not, migration will also be migration, the other is to make sure that those people who would still like to have families are able to do so as much as possible and the third is that to those people who cannot have children in order to facilitate their adoption. We still have a big problem, long, complex procedures, and we need to take a step forward here in the future to help these couples with bilateral arrangements with countries by helping them to regulate documents, to make it faster and easier and also to make it easier in Slovenia itself, to think about how we will facilitate these procedures for parents who are fit for parents and want to do so, but because of the different circumstances this does not happen. In short, these are the reflections that will have to be done, but the time is running out, so after June something will also have to be put on the table, but one law is already in place, the one that I mentioned earlier, and we already have the opportunity to fix one thing, perhaps already in this mandate if it is possible to squeeze. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u106	Dr. Dragan Matić has the word. Prepare Mr Janez Janš and Jani Möderndorfer. Dr. Matić, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. Well, today we are supposed to discuss the future, but it is quite clear that on some points we can debate for eternity, but we will not agree on them, for example, Nova Slovenija provides another, non-solid health system, a system where everyone, after his own judgment, would buy some insurance policies and then find out later when he is seriously ill what he actually has in hand and what rights to defend. Nor does this mantra of low taxes actually tell people that after having low taxes, they will have low social rights or will have to finance themselves. However, this debate today already has some flaw in itself in this way, which my colleague Grimes has nicely clarified several times. We should discuss the future, and then, when Members of the Coalition start discussing the future, colleagues Grims tell them how unfair it is, because you have been in power for four years, why you have not done so and now you are criticising or smart. But no matter what the President does, I would ask if you could remind me a little bit, there's one of the experts a little loud, hard to go on. [[…]] Thank you. Now, if I risk this obvious that I am just a coalition Member, I would like to draw attention to something that on the one hand seems to me to be a disappointment. Now, the Novi Slovenija and SDS groups, these are many times, they are very patriotic, especially when it comes to talking about the danger of migrants and similar matters, but unfortunately in these recommendations I miss a chapter where a true patriot should be particularly careful, and this is a chapter on culture and language. Without a modern creative culture, without cultural production and without a modern Slovenian language, the existence of a Slovenian state makes no sense and then these two million can be joined by a neighbouring country, because from some economic aspects this has no particular meaning. However, the situation in this area is worrying and in the future we should change something, especially with regard to the restoration of cultural heritage, which is failing, regarding links to cultural tourism where we have a good case in Ljubljana, but not elsewhere in the country, but after I mentioned it, Slovenian language, we enter into a digital era where we will talk to cars in the future, with machines that we have in our households, in some language, now if the Slovenian language is equipped for this digital age, then of course we will have to talk to these devices in another language and with this will also become a slow museum language, not attractive for new generations. There is little talk about this, including the lack of systematic policies that would lead us forward, and in particular the regulation of the cultural model, because we have a public sector that is over-increased in the area of culture and gives little “output”, there would be a need for some fundamental reform and it would also be appropriate to place NGOs in such a way that their status and funding are systematically regulated. If we are speaking only further in this area of culture and the media, in the media we have a 12-year-old Media Law which is completely outdated and is in some deep analogous or even before the analogue age, and we are now in the digital age and in fact this law does not give some relevant answers to current issues, and even under this law it is not possible to protect public interest effectively, and lastly, the Minister of Culture himself has declared to be incompetent in the case of the takeover of Proplusa, and has justified that he has an outdated law which does not give him sufficient authority, these are all areas that are important for the Slovenian state and the Slovenian society after all, are the fourth branch of power and have very important functions, the control of politics, the control of all negative deviant phenomena such as corruption and the rest that I do not mention, so we have in this area, which is vitally important, but very little is highlighted and has very little control over policy, the control over all negative aspects of this is also in the culture, and it is also a focus on the culture. Now, if I could just touch something from today's debate for a moment. I think it was quite pre-eminently dyed, but there were also some statements that were incorrect, that I do not say incorrect, now only the case Mr Tonin said that the debt of the state in nominal amount did not go down, which is not true, since 2016, when 31 billion 700 million, it has been reduced by 470 million by this year, now, if it is small, I do not know, but I do not think that this is a negligible amount. Now, Mr. Horvath, he said something else and I wrote it down, exactly. The debt of the sector was said to be the last quarter of 2014 compared to 2017 that the debt increased by 4.4 billion, now I am very interested in Mr Horvat, where you found this information, that for the country's 4.4 billion sector, I am talking about the state sector, that is, the public debt where you found it to be increased, because, according to the available data in 2014, the public debt was 30 billion and 200 million, but in 2017 it was 29 billion and 800 million, so that, when Mr Horvat talks about gross external debt, that is something else, otherwise, in gross external debt, there was also a private debt that was not guaranteed in terms of one 40 % in 2017 and also this comparison in the last quarter of 2014, when the debt process of the banks was carried out, when we had a credit crunch, when these debts were returned abroad and because they were in 2011 were owed to those banks, and also this comparison in the last quarter of 2014 when the case of the debt was due to the external bank, which was due to a slightly less than in 2017, which was due to a certain amount of the year. In this way, of course, it is more difficult to discuss when we have some flat rates, but it must be said that yes, one more thing has remained in my memory. [[…]] “We are burdening future generations with public debt,” said Mr Tonin. Well, here we have to say that our President of the Government, in his resignation, has made a responsible move and has not given up on the unions in the face of unreasonable demands that amounted to, say and write, even a billion euros when they were added. It must be said, however, that we have put a fiscal rule into the Constitution in this mandate. Budget balance After a 5% deficit in 2014, this year we have for the first time in very long years a projected surplus. [[…]] In the meantime, austerity measures were released, and gradually everyone received more than wages, pensions, social transfers, but in the final phase before the elections everyone wanted at once, and everyone was large, and unfortunately this was not acceptable. [[…]] However, over the long term, projections show that it will gradually be possible to pursue sustainable growth with some balanced and responsible behaviour or with a policy that will continue SMC policy as a leading party, while meeting all the needs that employees in public administration also qualify for. At this point, I would like to conclude and once again express my regret that the Members who proposed this debate today did not see much, but instead we looked at empty chairs. It's really in a way something that itself speaks enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u108	Mr Janez Janša has the floor to prepare Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u109	Thank you so much for saying that. Now, the theme of the future is the theme of all, not just the Members who have proposed this debate, despite the fact that the ruling coalition has already deleted the conclusions on the committee and has essentially prevented the debate on the conclusions. So this shedding of cat tears isn't exactly credible. And it didn't happen for the first time. Whenever the opposition has proposed solutions in this mandate, the debate on this in plenary session has generally been prevented, since you are already on the committee I mean, I find it difficult to say "you are already" because there is no one. [[…]] Since they have practically prevented this on the committee by deleting conclusions. Of course, this debate is important and falls at a time when the government, or the ruling coalition, now asks the National Assembly, the President of the State and all those who have a decision on the deadlines for future elections to shorten their agony. That's how we listened to representatives of government parties about yesterday. Let their agony shorten. This says a lot about the self-assessment of this mandate, but not now, although there has been a lot of talk in today's debate about what was, what should have been, and so on, relatively little with the exception of material and editorials about the future. However, these matters, which have been listed as a condition for a better future for this country, are important. However, they are very illusory or difficult to expect from this conglomerate of corrections in tax, social, economic, development, spatial policy that this will combine into a better future. In order for Slovenia to be in the future, which in some way stems from a constitutional order to all those who are in control of this country at any time, the real state needs greater prosperity and greater justice. At least three things in this common denominator would have to be achieved in order for these wishes to be realized. This may seem too flat and general to anyone, but in my opinion this is essential. The first thing already mentioned is the electoral system. The debate on the electoral system is older than the Slovenian state. We currently have a commitment in the Constitution to an electoral system that is not legally available. The Constitutional Court is grinding this dilemma of the direct influence of the electorate on the elected Members, and it is clear that it will be a long time before the call for elections before us is over. Even if what is currently in the Constitution regarding the electoral system is not enough. Slovenia needed at least a few mandates or a two-way majority or combined electoral system to ensure greater quality, greater responsibility and better quality of legislative authority. Moreover, greater responsibility is due to the fact that voters would directly assess someone they represented and now assess them indirectly, depending on different reasons or on different reasons, whether they are then rewarded or not. We have here, I would say, cases where some skilfully flee from this responsibility so that just before each election they jump on the list of those parties that show the most and never evaluate them. The majority of the electoral system would, of course, prevent this and ensure a higher quality of decision-making, restore at least some of the people's confidence in the power of the democratic process, and later this step awaits Slovenia. By the way, we voted in the referendum, the Constitutional Court confirmed this, and then it was in a way that the constitutional profession today says is not permissible, played. Today, the constitutional profession says that the Constitutional Court's decisions cannot be played out, so that one solution which has been declared unconstitutional is then recorded in the Constitution. That's exactly what happened in 2000. A two-thirds majority is required to change the electoral system. For this two-thirds majority, and of course for this step it takes a greater maturity of the political class, and here, of course, is the question whether it is a closed circle from which there is no exit and only one, can only some more severe crisis be cut. Let us hope not, but certainly it is reasonable after all these attempts, all these discussions, that the change in the electoral system is one of the keys to greater prosperity, greater stability and greater justice. The next general condition for a better future for more prosperity in this country is reconciliation. For a long time, it has been considered that the Slovenians have been decommissioned because of the traumas of the previous century. The ones they caused are mostly under the rubble. Some have graves others don't. But now this grass is in the third, part even in the fourth generation. There is no indication that these wounds would heal and that there would also be adequate wounds here in the independent country. [[Incomprehensible]] For a long time, however, it was agreed that the medicine was a cure for this reconciliation. Reconciliation means finding the truth, reconciliation means that where crimes are indisputable, there is some regret, even some measure of the rule of law, if not for another, because of form and on this basis a common view of the future. We Slovenians with plebiscite unity, with steps at the time of independence, built a valuable foundation for this reconciliation, and then, especially in recent times, it was accelerated and we experienced this year's famous celebration in Dražgoša, that the festive speaker at the applause of the entire transition left, which was there, announced that reconciliation was no longer an option. She said, what reconciliation, who knows who won, winners write history, and losers bear the consequences. But the very drastic words, even more drastic there under those hills reflected the clapping of the political class to this now, if reconciliation is not an option, what the option is then. [[Incomprehensible]] Life in a cursed society, bringing this trauma to the fifth and sixth generations, a new civil war. So reconciliation is a prerequisite for a better future, and the ease with which this change of paradigm is part of the political spectrum as a whole or at least part of it. Left to pass through the Slovenian public, past some critical reflection is worrying. And the third condition for the better future of the Slovenians is the amendment of the law on the anthem. At first glance, this will seem ridiculous to someone, but in the Constitution that we adopted in this building, with a vast majority in 1991 it says that the anthem of the Republic of Slovenia is Zdravjica. And when we won on various occasions we sang, we played the Medici as it is, or the appropriate selection of kitties from this song, which is magnificent and each kitt has a meaning. Then Mr Školč proposed a law in 1994 which states that the anthem of the Republic of Slovenia is the seventh kitica of Zdravljica, which is a beautiful piece of a whole and without this piece of the whole, only this piece is declared a Slovenian anthem, but it is essentially a shot at its own self-esteem. And I had a question from a number of foreign statesmen who were just reminded before they came to Slovenia, they also saw the text of this anthem, which was then played to them before they examined the honor unit and many asked them how Slovenia had an anthem of the United Nations. “Let all nations live...” nothing wrong, but this piece, this anthem of some multinational community of united nations, this anthem says nothing about us, except that we want peace, which is all right, but it is not a national anthem. So, in this law, either you have to give the word of the Constitution, or at least 7 pussies add the second puss. Today we had an event where we also remembered the ceremony at the international recognition of Slovenia, I was at the time visiting our cousins in Australia, Melbourne, and at some ceremony where there was, I think thousands of people who were very kind were written on stage from this Slovenian hymn, which began with the 2nd kitica of Prešernová Zdvljevica »Komú a bright cure of brothers! Let's sing! Our God our country, God lives all the Slovenian world,...« and so on, and then also 7 Kitty, or as he has repeatedly said and written, black on white, Slovenian writer from Boris Pahor: Those we call to become our friends or those with whom we want to make friends ask us who you are. First, introduce yourself to who you are, who you want to be my friend. Now, Boris Pahor has been talking about this and has been writing since 1994, unheard of. It happens that when he gives a longer speech and says that, then you watch TV and that's the job that's not there. Someone's smart enough to cut it. In a conversation with Boris Pahor, this matter began to interest me, even because they opposed this change, but we did not make much noise. When I first listened to Mr. Pahor, when he talked about it, I felt cheated myself, and I went to do some research on how it happened. And see, in NUK there are also bound volumes of newspapers, which were published as a press release by the Communist Party of Slovenia in time 2. World War II, 1942, but the name of this newspaper is not Communist, it is Delo. Work, press release of the Communist Party of Slovenia. And in this 1942 paper, a text by Boris Kidrič, which is signed as Boris Kalan, presents in this text Boris Kidrič about how the revolution will overwhelm the Slovenian nation from some backward historical creation to the proletarian nation, into an international nation, and how easy it is for such a nation to take as an anthem the international kit of Prešerno Zdravica. Boris Kidrich is two. The World War and the bloody takeover of power by the Communist Party became the president of that executive government or executive council. He was the secretary of the party, but he had key functions in his hands, however, in the communist era when Slovenia was not allowed to write it down in the Republic Constitution. This happened in Slovenia alone in 1994 at a time when, in some way, a nation that became a nation that had gained its country had to have a full advantage in development and in any sense, and then this confidence began to be easily limited at all ends. And today we see the consequences. We see the consequences when the representatives of Slovenia, for the first time, were, say, these consequences drasticly when we negotiated for entry into the European Union, which was a national interest, but if you look today at the treaties signed by individual countries at the time of entry into the European Union, you see that the different Member States of the European Union have chosen various bonuses and discharges in different areas, different from Denmark, Ireland, practically no country, especially in this recent period. When you look at what Slovenia has chosen, and as an exception there we have found gambling and "duty free" for a limited period of time. No protection of so-called serious Slovenian interests was suddenly an interest of 'duty free'. And let's skip many other cases that he might be referring to, but there's no time. This is the last situation when, together with Novo Slovenija, we introduced a constitutional law for the protection of Slovenian property, which is seized by the Slovenian State Bank on the basis of illegal and contrary to international law. What happened when we introduced this law, which the government should have put in or something like this, because it's been happening since 2015, and that's why we didn't know, it was shocking, last week, the budget control committee, when we learned these things, I haven't been at a more shocking meeting yet, but then the opposition did this and we tabled a constitutional law and we also said we're ready to accept any changes that go in this same direction, we don't condition it with anything, I think it's the interest of everyone sitting in this room that this is happening. Croatia is in direct breach of the agreements it has signed and in which, unlike arbitration, it has never withdrawn. What happened? The President of the National Assembly sent the Constitutional Law to the European Central Bank for its opinion if it would allow Slovenia to adopt the Constitutional Law. For the first time, constitutional matter, constitution, constitutional matter is above European rules under the European Treaty. Slovenia is not bound by European rules under constitutional standards. The hierarchy is the Constitution and constitutional laws, then the international rules that are above our legislation, even under our Constitution, are our laws and so on. The constitutional law is n when it comes to the powers of the European Central Bank or when it comes to the powers of the central bank, but this limited sovereignty does not mean that before you begin any procedure at all, you should be allowed to do so. I mean, it's pure evasiveness, the slavery that comes from this climate that's created and reflected in the most visual way that they are our hymns. [[?]] They've made you disabled. And since the government has fallen or is trying to reduce its own agony, as we heard yesterday, there is not much time. The next judgment, which we have heard last week, will weigh EUR 25 million to the “Saltars” of the New Ljubljana Bank. We've been arguing here for days about amendments that are half-worth less. But here we listened, partly in a closed session, but this is not confidential information, lamenting that, but what we did, these are judgments, it is necessary to do what they will say, and they will destroy us if we do not execute. [[…]] [[…]] People of God, I didn't believe my ears. We have people operating with Slovenian state property who have been given the authority to do so and who claim in this house that an illegal judgment by a Croatian court is contrary to international agreements over Slovenian constitutional law. Now, where is this confidence? Where's the sovereignty here? Ten days have passed since we tabled this constitutional law, and the government has failed, and we have now collected signatures for an extraordinary session, and the President of the National Assembly is still zinc either to call or not to call. Maybe he's waiting for the National Assembly to be disbanded sooner. Maybe someone will tell you what this has to do with the anthem. Of course he does. Because if there is no self-confidence, if, instead of this self-confidence, self-servingness, if instead of knowing that the first task is both legislative and executive, as well as the judicial authorities protecting their own citizens, then only others, then there is really a big question why we have our own country. So when we gather enough sense here for a serious debate on these things and this is a debate on the Slovenian future. When we are able to comply with the Law on an anthem, coat of arms and flag with the Slovenian Constitution without any major disputes and ideological sessions, then we will raise the confidence of this National Assembly to the level that we have experienced here at the time of Slovenian independence when it was actually about being or not being. So, in addition to taxes, the economic environment, social policy, judicial reform, and so on, these three things are crucial for the Slovenian future or are a prerequisite for remaining receptions and other medicines to work.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u110	Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u111	Yes, thank you very much. Well, I must say this last debate was more of a past than a future. Above all, it is interesting that a Member who sits in the National Assembly from the very beginning has been and has had the opportunity and opportunity to even file a law to do so. Yes, and he did, of course, his client did it, but interesting always when he was in the opposition. When he was Prime Minister, when he had a coalition, he didn't even try to do that. But these are the tools of how to always understand when you're in opposition and, of course, blow your soul out with some clear goal. Just to show you how bad things are in this society. Interestingly, however, the interesting fact is that he spoke of three key things, of course with one sentence at the beginning, when he said that the Slovenian nation was divided and that it was wrong. [[…]] We should be united, and so on. And then he talks about three things that are crucial, always and constantly shared this country and these people. Of course, we must not tell him that he wants something and that he imagines what is actually good for Slovenia, but he forgets one thing for him is always one truth. [[…]] One and only. Of course, it's at least incorrect. The second thing that seems important to me is, above all, that we will never bring reconciliation here in Parliament. Never. These experiments have already been done, this has been done, and, as we see from the forecast, this will continue to be done. They must experience reconciliation, we must all experience it and internalize it, and especially the truth, as we have heard it now, we must not admit it, we must show the injustices of Bosta time and history. [[…]] As for the amendment of the Law on the Anthem and the flag, someone was in a hurry at the time, and it was very clear in that debate; I remember very clearly because I listened to it: “Let’s not go crazy, let’s not rush or take anything overnight, which will then probably be very difficult or we will never change.” [[…]] Please, let's just tell the Slovenians that the problem of Slovenian society is that we sing the seventh kitica because Slovenians or foreigners don't recognize us and they ask us who we are in the UN. Please, that's depressed. But we're going to do this very much now, it looks like, we're going to listen, because this is now a forecast, and I can already see that the attackers are going to keep doing it for another two months until the election is over. That debate, which, of course, has been going on all day, is very interesting, especially because colleague Tonin in fact, some of my colleagues and colleagues have already discussed that they can agree with a lot of things, with what he discussed. And then, of course, he gave a very clear answer: “It’s nice to hear that you agree, but you did something else.” But the fact is, he said very few concrete things, except that he mentioned lex Magno as a non-systemic solution. Then, of course, payloads, which I might agree with at the principal level, but we have a problem, I've seen a comparison of wages recently, when everyone says what the burden of wages is, and I've looked at this comparison, let's say in Austrian wages we like to compare ourselves very much, and this comparison is very interesting, I'll take a gross salary of 4 thousand in Slovenia or Austria, and if we go to look at net wages in Slovenia there will be 2 thousand 411, 71 on all the burdens we give, and in Austria there will be 2 thousand 555. Of these are contributions to each other, according to Slovenia's total contributions given by 884, we are talking about 4 000 pay all the time and 724 in Austria. The income tax is lower than in Austria, there are 704, in Slovenia there are 704, in Austria 719 euros and the net salary comes out as I said at the end and if we go to see what this means in contributions, taxes and contributions to gross salary as a percentage is 46.56% and in Austria 51.05%. Then, of course, he and his colleagues say, yes, and young people then prefer to go abroad because they have higher wages, but they do not say that there are higher costs, other lifestyles and so on, far from being satisfied with wages in Slovenia, but it was interesting to hear another data, in Slovakia they have higher wages, I do not know where this data is, only it was possible to say, but never a comparison of any number is true. Go look at Poland, it has not experienced this crisis, but there they have also achieved this by not lifting wages, and there has been a drastic increase in wages in the last 15 years, and not high wages. In short, it is awkward to make comparisons between countries, of course, because countries are different, other concepts, other systems, different rules of the game, in short one set of differences is, in fact, very difficult to compare. However, we can compare what we really want, and I must say that today I was disturbed by a discussion by my fellow Vrtovec about, above all, when he said that we do not have a definition of public health in our country. How do we not define what public health is? We have very clearly defined what public health is, we also have very clear rules of the game, and he talked only about public doctors or health care in the public sector and he talked about private people, it's not true, we have privates, concessionaries who are part of the public health network and who feed into and without public health. I agree, however, because I understand why my colleague Wrotec spoke about this, he spoke only for one thing, for him in fact, he would like to have privacy in a classic case when he spoke to the patient to choose his own insurance company and payer, that of course means that as a whole complex system as a concept he should put on his head and such a system is, of course, a question of concept or whether we really want to have it or not. We can choose some good things from each system, but in this way we cannot put together and then say, but now we will only take the best things and the thing will work, it will not work, because in the end it will always go away and wonder how much this system costs, who will pay it, in what way, whether we have solidarity, we will have reciprocity, these are questions that mean, of course, that we have to ask where this is actually going to go. Have we done enough? I am sure, especially if I touch public health, so to speak, it has been reformed, we will talk about it completely at the end of the term, but at the beginning I said several times, even when the government swore when the "hirings" were clear, it is necessary to speak frankly and out loud that we are talking and that there is a need for reform of the public health system. I kept saying that. Some were afraid to avoid that word because they were afraid, if that means, I don't know, a revolution. That's not true. That makes it clear what you want to do. And of course, this has led us to have four laws adopted today from five key laws. And it's not true that nothing has happened. It's done a lot. But it is also true that the fifth marriage is crucial. What kind of health care do we want to have today and tomorrow, if we were to talk, we could talk forever. But above all, it must be sustainable, in particular it must be accessible and, most importantly, solidarity must be shown because we are different in society. We have people who are perfectly healthy and will need it only when they're old. And we have people who get sick when they're young and need help all their lives. Believe me, systems like America knows, as some other Western countries do, sell entire assets for health care. Middle-aged people, healthy, 50 years of age, when they find out they have cancer, don't go to treatment because they know they're going to get their family out and they'd rather die. We don't have that in Slovenia and they don't know that. And whoever tells me it's a bad system, whether it's healthy or not, because they don't know what it means to be sick or really don't know the system, everything else would be wrong to say what I think about it. And whatever government will come, I only hope that it will not waste what foreigners have repeatedly and constantly kept repeating, do not waste what they have, do not imitate all the other countries, because today we want to change and very hard to change this. Look what's going on in America. And there they dream of having something to have 5% of what we have in Slovenia. 30 million people lost that insurance with the arrival of the new president of the country. I don't even mention him because he's not worth mentioning. I have always wanted to discuss the future of Slovenia. Therefore, it does not claim, of course, that the debate on these matters is always impossible. That's not true. However, it is interesting that those who today propose such recommendations when they have ruled have never suggested this. That's definitely not the way it is. So today’s meeting opened and showed us what to talk about for the next two months. That's what they're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u112	We come to the conclusion of the general debate in which we will get the word of a representative of the Government as well as a representative of the proposalr as the first, mag. Branko Grimes. Excuse me. Anyone in the name of the government? Minister, please, you have the floor. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u113	Thank you for your word. I've been listening all night, if not here, in the government room. And I must say, what I'm glad to hear is that you're also here in the National Assembly, or we're talking about the future together. When we started on the government side with the preparation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia, we wanted to talk to all of you, at all stages. With coalition parties, it's even easier for us, with the opposition a little harder. However, I would still like to point out one party with whom we have worked incredibly well, and this is New Slovenia, where when we asked for it, we immediately took the time, called everything together and talked. We did not hear completely, yet we tried to follow the things we heard during these two longer conversations. And in fact, we offered, we asked all of you, let us talk, and then there were short conversations after some time, and there were no. But what I do believe is that we need to talk, because I believe that in the future we have to look back, why, because I really believe that if one nation is looked into the past, it doesn't deserve the future. And now, repeatedly mentioned, Slovenia does not know where it is going in the future, I believe that we have this answer. And I believe that the development strategy adopted by 2030, which is also integrated into all international stories and also the commitments made by Slovenia in the international field with the objectives of sustainable development by 2030, will have to take this path of sustainable development. And the development strategy refers to all three pillars of sustainable development and besides these pillars to two key stories, what, and these are essentially learning, learning and learning, because without education throughout life, not us, not future generations, in fact without learning, as values that I think we have forgotten a little. It will be very difficult to adapt in a world that is coming and, of course, one last important pillar is a country, a well-functioning country. And why I believe that we will talk about this and that all future governments will have to talk about it, as well as in the National Assembly, because, Members, at the previous meeting, you have adopted a new law on public finances, which also regulates medium-term planning, and where finally in Slovenia we have a link between the future, the development strategy, the priorities and the budget. This is a key story to me, and I was extremely pleased to hear that this novel of the Public Finance Act has been approved. Why? Each government, when it comes, will set its priorities, and it is legitimate and correct, but it will still be committed to this development planning once it has begun to think about the budget, and it will have to agree on its priorities. And as long as we are in the future, which we have now written down, and this is the sustainable development of this country, I am not afraid for this country. [[Incomprehensible]] And I can say that I am a proud Slovenian woman and that I believe that this country that we have drawn together will be experienced together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u114	The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Branko Grimes, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u115	Thanks again for saying that. Today we are talking about developments in the future of Slovenia. There are many grounds for development if I briefly overplay what I have said in a much longer form before. The foundation of our country in the coming period must be security. Security is a value that is just a condition of everything else, if people don't feel safe, then everything else becomes meaningless. It is therefore necessary to defend its borders, ensure the pillars of statehood and allow every child, every woman, every citizen, every citizen, every resident, every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia to feel safe. It is necessary, when we look to the future, to ensure the joy of life, that the country has to lead such a policy and policies so that the child will not only be the valuables of its parents, something that happens best in life, but that every Slovenian child will also be understood as the greatest possible investment for the future of the Slovenian nation. According to the Constitution, Slovenia cannot exist without the Slovenian people, if you read basic constitutional documents, the Slovenian nation is a constitutional, fundamental constitutional part of the Slovenian state. This should be borne in mind, words and actions when we decide in any part, or in Parliament, or in the Government or in any other area of social life, but in any institution. Children have the right to education, which will develop in accordance with the values of parents, which will ensure that children are aware of Slovenian culture, of Slovenian roots, of patriotism, of all those fundamental values on which Slovenian statehood has been established and that children have the right to choose in this sense that parents can choose the school in which they believe that they will provide their child with the best possible education. From this point of view, competition is also necessary and welcome. Then we have to take care of jobs, which is a favourable environment for entrepreneurship, we need to reduce the burdens of the economy while at the same time eliminating completely unnecessary bureaucratic procedures, regulations, 20,000 sub-legislative acts, and I don't know what else is involved, all this is an unnecessary burden. Slovenia must relax its development potential for young people to recognize in the country of Slovenia the place, the place where they will be able to realize their dreams, their visions, to live their lives. This then gives the future. And we need to ensure adequate health care, where there is a need to make the order that everyone, including the elderly and children, will have to make available health care as much as possible, with the best services at a reasonable price and at a reasonable time. The waiting periods are something totally unacceptable, especially in the form they are at the moment. And then there's solidarity to be taken care of. Those who cannot provide for objective reasons should be granted state aid, but only those. And, of course, it is always necessary to take care of yourself first, first of all, Slovenia. First, we need to take care of our citizens, our citizens, our inhabitants, our inhabitants, and then, within the possibility, we can help someone else. It is necessary to ensure that those who have been building this country for 40 years, building the homeland of Slovenia, receive a humane pension. It's a fundamental condition. You have to take care of the homeless, you have to take care of the children, you have to take care of all those who can't go to sea. Then Slovenia will find appropriate responses to the modern technologies that Slovenians master and will remain at home on the basis of faster development, released development potentials. It is important to say that a determined policy that directs young people, the most prospective, the most educated, the most entrepreneurial part of society, the vital part of society to go abroad and the 10,000 who leave annually are replaced by 10,000 migrants. The borders need to be closed, it is necessary to work on the preservation of Slovenian culture, Slovenian space, Slovenian nation, Slovenian statehood. It's not without all this. And what does that establish? First of all, culture must also be taken care of. But for true culture, to preserve Slovenian tradition, to preserve Slovenian values. It is not possible for culture to be allowed practically everything within the limits of the Constitution and the law. [[…]] But the question is, which of these should be financed by the state. With full responsibility, I say that it cannot be that culture when someone is doing something with dogs or someone is destroying state symbols financed by the state and rewarded for the surface. This is not Slovenian culture. It can be for someone's culture to offer it on the market and then to choose there. Slovenia, however, must ensure that it preserves its tradition, its history, its culture in the form that we have received from the ancestors, that we also give it to our children. And this is also an important attitude towards the Slovenian language, which I have not talked about much about today, except in one very strange part, which one of the coalition members earlier said that the themes that my speaker spoke to separate, I hear for the first time in my life that the Slovenian anthem should have separated us, the Slovenian anthem brought us together at the time of independence and it is worth keeping it the way we used it then, everything else is manipulating the anthem, then we talked about the anthem as a whole, singing the hymn as a whole, bringing us together as a whole, and so it must also remain, it is among the fundamental values. When we talk about the attitude towards the Slovenian language, we must be aware that without Slovenian language there is no Slovenian culture, there is no Slovenian nation, this is a fundamental constitutional part of Slovenian tradition, Slovenian history, Slovenian language and this relation to it must be based on all levels, the law and the Constitution stipulate that the official language of the Republic of Slovenia is Slovenian, in addition to the areas where both national communities, indigenous national communities, are living, Italy and Hungary say that the Constitution and the law are also there special language rights, there are official languages, that is, minority languages. And the Law on the Use of Slovenian makes it very clear that Slovenian is the language that is officially used in all areas of social life and should not have happened as recently as we have done in Kranj where I come from, where one part of the official publication, official publications related to the union statement appeared in Albanian, then we asked what it was and received an official response from the municipality that the school made only a link to the official SWIZ website, i.e. the union of SWIZ and that they have there, quote: “Official publications in the union of SWIZ so in the Slovenian, Italian and Albanian language and that this is why we had the official publication in Slovenian and Albanian”. Now, if we look at the relationship of language, we said in all areas of social life must be the official language of Slovenian, if we are going to cover the whole space, if this was the goal, it should be the Slovenian language and, of course, the Italian and Hungarian languages where this is determined by law. But when something like this happens, then one wonders how in Slovenia one union can not be governed by another rule, it is not clear how this can happen. And then it is easier to understand that the representatives of this union on the road where I met them are singing international, not the Slovenian anthem. This is already a little bit more interesting, and I'm not sure if the international song, which brings together all Slovenes and Slovenes, would have a very separate opinion about it, unless it's a more modern version that you can follow on the Internet these days, it might say a lot, but it certainly doesn't. It is therefore questions of development, questions of the future, questions of the future of the country of Slovenia, our country, the homeland of the Slovenian nation, which deserves [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u116	The second representative of the proposer, Mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u117	Dear Members and Members, I would like to thank you very much for being able to discuss the future today, and I think that if we talked about the future more often, the future in Slovenia would be even more beautiful.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u118	You have been given the floor by the reported debaters who wanted to, because the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask, does anyone else wish to discuss it on the basis of Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure? I'm guessing yes, so I'm inviting you to sign in. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. How much time do we have?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u120	You have five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u121	Of course, I must say that Mr Grimes is at that opening argument of mine. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u122	Please turn it off and turn it on. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I must, of course, say that Mr Grims has now tried to correct that impression because there is no culture in the document. That's all I said in the first place. There are no documents, and of course I insist. That is why, of course, this one was perfectly fine in Slovenian, and I agree with that, but the fact remains that you forgot about culture in the papers. [[Incomprehensible]] Secondly, I must say that you then spoke about it or you wanted to bring it to a political culture in the previous debate, of course I know that this is a long topic, but the political culture is certainly that there are no applicants in here, if we are already in the process of how this expression can then be used in some way, not to say that political non-culture is certainly what Mr Tonin said, then also in one stage that Desus advocates for rich pensioners. I mean, this is, of course, something that is a typical example of some non-culture in political space, despite all this, I wish it was nice for us to talk. Of course, Mr. Janša, I must say one word here. I am one of those who argue that reconciliation is something that is a vision of Slovenian society, because otherwise it does not work. I think that we have already taken a serious step on this path, but of course the problem is that those who did make a serious mistake during the war and cooperated with the invaders, with the Germans with the Italians, and of course if they did say it, then we did wrong, of course today we think it was wrong, the reconciliation would actually be significantly more attainable, although of course the reconciliation is really intimate and I agree that it cannot be resolved at the political level or in such a hall, but the consciousness of each individual among us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u124	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u125	Thank you, Mr Vice President. I would also like to thank all those who have made a sincere effort to reflect on what Slovenia should be like in the future, what Slovenia should be like in 2030. A few of the softest points were that it was pre-election, I don't know, a session or anything. Look, it's a fact, and I congratulate my colleague Simon Rabbit, who has very rarely understood the fact that he is pre-election every day, except for election day. It's pre-election every day, except election day. And look, it's been ten years since Dr. Janez Drnovšek died. Some of you have greatly praised his political opus in your statements. He also had discussions about the future of Slovenia. So it was probably one good gesture, and I agree with those that we should actually have such talks for a certain time, an hour, two, three, at each regular meeting of the National Assembly. I regret that the criticisms of today's session, or rather the motion for a meeting, have practically shown a programme gap without a vision. It was also an insult, but I don't blame anyone, but I'm just wondering if you're allowed here to insult even in a foreign language, i.e. a non-Slovenian language. We, Nova Slovenija and also colleagues from SDS, no one represented our solutions, our views ultimately, because look, the future cannot be only the right. She can't just be left. The future must be ours. If I'm looking at this circle, it's probably got to be 360 degrees, and that's what this is about. Our idea was to confront our views of what those key issues are. Some of them were clearly articulated, and we presented our views, our solutions. It is not said that they are only our best, but if we are to face them, we must put them on the table. Everybody. Left to right, everyone. And then seek in some proper political dialogue optimism, find the best solution without sometimes going to the level of personal assault. See, those of us who have ever been in the economy at least have the best understanding that in fact the brutal competition is the one that actually forces constant change in the economy. And those who were in the economy, I say we understand that change is in fact the only constant. Change is the only constant. I hope to say that a politician or a Member who does not dare to tell his people that changes are necessary, coward. That's what I'm behind, and I'm defending it, even though it might sound very hard. Dr. Matić asked me, it's my moral duty to answer him. I've been printing this data, this table, today, 16. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the The Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, "state, consolidated debt", and then I looked at in 2014, the third quarter, let's say that you took power then, you could say fourth, okay. At the time, this debt was the country's sector [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] At 28 billion 904.6 million, the third quarter of last year was 33 billion 285 million. If I make that difference, I'll get 4,000 and 381 million. So, 4.3 billion euros. I checked with the Secretary of State this morning, and Mr. Tillen Bozič will certainly do so to you. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] That's what I'm talking about. What I give you. Dear colleagues, there's something else I'd like to tell you. Now, given that we are going back to early elections, it is now clear that the new faces in politics are only recycling old systems. [[microphone shutdown, miscommunication]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u126	Dr. Runczek, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. I could have asked my colleague to apologize immediately on a procedural basis because I definitely didn't. “Man must change himself so he does not destroy the world.” John Janša on his way, page 282. And I don't want to make a fool out of you, Comrade Janša, we'll get to that. Let's start changing. I'm basically the coolest guy, not that I have pizzas, but I love precision. Comrade Tonin, Churchill said: "If you're not a liberal at 25, you don't have a heart. If you're not a conservative at 35, you don't have a brain." Churchill wasn't talking about socialists. This is where you were deceiving. Let's be specific. Churchill was 15 years old. [[?]] a conservative, 35-liberal, then a bit of a relapse. As a young man, he shot natives, that's his expression, burned their homes in Pakistan, Sudan, and elsewhere in Africa. So much for Churchill. I'm afraid Janša is leaving us. Look, I wouldn't be what I am, in a positive sense, without young Janša, because I read his columns in 1985, 1986, 1987. Jansha went on a journey of his own. I would not be what I am in a poor sense as a politician without the current Janša or his limbs in the National Assembly, Mr Tank and someone else. This is where I listened to two policies with a huge mile. Jania and Jansha. I had a feeling Mr. Janša was tired and he didn't want to admit it. I want to go watch the sun, whatever it is. [[…]] But you know, I mean, the election system, let's touch that. [[…]] Five thousand voters brought something into the byte, but then a fellow, you nod, then you, Desus played them, even though they were his, and we agreed. Personally, I don't think we will grow up for the majority electoral system for another 25 years if we start to change very much. Mr Grimes mentioned political culture. The maximum pattern of political culture should be your client, not that you begin to stutter here how we hate you, we hate you, we hate you unconsciously, that you cannot work with us, said Mrs Ludmila, who has very thick skin, which is the politician I value most on the right. Okay, you didn't exactly push her that hard. Reconciliation could have come a long time ago if politics were more mature, but you were in line with this ping-ponging, but, of course, not the way to forget what post-war Europe is made of, the anti-fascism. In that Minsk, she also taught you how Belarus experienced a lot during World War II. Sometimes I don't like me on the left because I say, you know, interwar, postwar killings on all sides, I don't support these black and white looks and excuses, the times were different, the times were different, but you know that you haven't solved this for 30 years, even because of that you should have some old politics, which is a good part of them, rummaging into the embankment of political history. [[…]] That's my personal opinion. Health, health, the only Jani here spoke a little bit seriously, but you know, he works for me more than half the family or in health care, or in a pharmacy, from Ljubljana, across Europe, to what kind of person is in the province what Milojka was trying to do. [[Incomprehensible]] My three favorite voting votes come from New Zealand, one of these voting votes is the youngest judge in New Zealand, and the other lady works there in health. My cousin was the boss of Rolle. [[?]] In Afghanistan and so on, two out of five children are studying medicine, so talking about it is insulting. And if you go to look a little bit, Pat' Branko once a little bit after your love for the Multi-Garden States, what state they're in there. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Health care. I know, I mean, but you know, we also have a lot of health problems, but to a large extent, we also have a way of getting the politicians to move them forward and not coming any further. In the middle of this term Milojka literally told me, look at me beep essentially, and mine and Kuštrin and these and union and up and down. [[…]] Then let's get some more stuffing. I think we need to get serious. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] I went to do this, but you know, if we're going to compare ourselves to Austria about health care, we're going to have to invest 2.4 more times. But of course, I'm not in favour of what New Slovenia advocates. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Dr. Runcho. Mag. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u129	Thank you very much. But today's debate has shown progress, and I think we've been discussing many hours today, and if anything, I would have remembered this debate after that, that we were still talking about the future, and that, apart from the rare exceptions that came between the patriots and the partisans again, we were all really talking about the future. And that's a good sign. If we could turn this around for another 5, 10, 15 years, maybe half the debate would be about patriots and partisans. By looking forward to today's debate, however, the policy is also a little more focused on the future and what lies ahead for us in the next 10 years. I don't detect hot water, you probably meet the same people, and everybody tells us the same thing - give us a normal life. All I want is my salary and my pension. That's all, and that's why we need to find solutions to things that threaten us in the future. We can close our eyes so that nothing terrible will happen, but we can find some solutions to meet the challenges that await us. The ageing of the population is certainly one of such things, here is quite a solution, of course we are political parties among each other, some more supportive of migration policy, others would want to strengthen family policy more, this is a matter of choice, even in family policy are important details of the need to ensure, the apartment and similar things that will contribute to better things, but above all it is necessary to modernise the pension system and this is not a floscul, but, if we have an increasingly long-lived society, of course, on concepts that have been in place for 80 or 90 years, this society can no longer survive and it needs to bring the pension system to what society needs, and I think that Mr Hainz doesn't need to be angry if I say that they are defending the richer pensioners, that it is a fact and also those who need to defend them, and thank God that they have the wealthier pensioners of at least, and I think that we have no longer have to support for the idea that he has the Europence, that he can support, that he has the most. Even with regard to the business environment itself, with regard to the tax environment, we are different, I am glad that Member Trček is always debated, he is trying to be funny, I think we are lacking these, let's say to this English type of Members, that they are juicy, that the discussions are interesting, so I always look positive, but there is nothing wrong with us if we are different, it would be very unusual for New Slovenia and the United Left to be very much on the same side. There are things where we can find ourselves, but there are things where we are diametrically opposite, but it is essential once again that I return to the starting point, but we talk about how to improve the business environment, I do not claim that we in New Slovenia are the most clever and smart and, if there is also from the other bank, from the other political shore any positive solution, it is necessary to use it, and here our different views can be an advantage, not a weakness. If even in the coming months, perhaps now more weeks of debate will take place in a similar direction, that we will primarily deal with what lies ahead in the future, then it will be interesting, varied, good comfort, I hope that things will not turn in the direction they have now in these last days, that we will mainly be busy, who is more responsible for some thing, I would rather compete who has better solutions for the future and this seems important to me, and at least in New Slovenia we will try to show also in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u130	Mag. Branko Grimes, you have the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u131	Now, with regard to development, there is real security, more Slovenian children, education, values, relaxed development potential and less bureaucracy, and less burden on the economy, of course, concern for the elderly, care for human health, order in health, these are the foundations on which we should actually have consensus, and let us add good relations with neighbours, finding allies, maintaining common European foundations, common European values. How do you do that? The first and fundamental condition, this has proven again today is the political culture that when you don't run out of all arguments when you don't have anything to do with it, you start mutilating your colleague, say, today we saw it live, you lie nicely, you make up a little bit, you say he personally attacked me and you don't even mention him, you're talking about customers, you're not talking about people. This is, of course, evidence of an extremely low political culture, which then happens unfortunately at the level of the parties, but with the exception of the largest government party, they have been building a public impression of how they are at a distance to the government and they represent a solution to the inadequate state or disaster that we are witnessing at the government level. Yeah, the one who's an integral part of the problem isn't the solution, he's rotting part of the problem. If it's played and sold, it's a reflection of a low culture again. Then we are not surprised if the sale in Slovenia has been possible lately, even as some savior stresses how he reads in the church and at the same time advocates that homosexual couples adopt children, even though all religious communities have opposed the principle of the Catholic Church, even though we voted against it in the referendum. It speaks of security and at the same time proposes to remove the fences that have now been shown extremely well at the southern border. In White Krajina, illegal migrants went across where there was no fence. Where they are, there were virtually no such passages. People are safe there. This is said to be what people should offer at a time when their voice is valid - and it is necessary to stand firm for the solution in the Slovenian Constitution that people have power in Slovenia, people must be aware of the determination of their voice; there is no reason not to use it – it is that I appeal to all those who participate at that time to present to the people possible programs to face the arguments. It is clear, as some of you have said, that we are essentially making electoral campaigns with all our lives, with our actions, with our concrete decisions. One campaign starts the day the elections of the previous term are ended. Everything needs to be evaluated. But we would expect from the media, and this is a legitimate expectation, because it is the constitutional right of people to properly present what someone has achieved, that only the government has achieved in the period 2004-2008, when a quarter of the pension actually increased, when a quarter of the wages actually increased, and unfortunately the next government, that was the government of Pahor, if I am a concrete one who took over power, at a time when the economy has already returned around the world, increased spending for a billion and so began to spread scissors, which today made Slovenia significantly more in debt than the entire former Yugoslavia was so many years ago. That's why it's a responsibility to people. This responsibility lies with all of us, especially in the way we speak [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] about things, not about people, representing programs, representing facts. It is also justified to expect this from those who are responsible for informing the public. This is also justified to be expected of all colleagues and colleagues in this National Assembly. Without political culture, there can be no Slovenian language without culture. Without the Slovenian language, there can be no Slovenian nation [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] and the Slovenian people is a fundamental constitutional part of the country of Slovenia. The countries of Slovenia without the Slovenian people are not and the Slovenian nation, and therefore the Slovenian country deserves prosperity, security and security. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-16-SDZ7-Izredna-55.ana.u132	I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda and also the 55th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. All of you, dear colleagues, want a pleasant and peaceful weekend. I'll see you Monday. Thank you very much and very much.
