ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, I begin with the continuation of the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Monika Gregorčič, mag. Marko Pogačnik, Victory Jelinčič Nobleni, Jože Tanko from 13:30 to 16:00, Igor Zorčič, Ljudmila Novak from 17:00 on, Dr. Franc Trček from 16:00 p.m., Luka Mesec from 12:15 p.m., Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec from 12:15 p.m., mag. Dejan Kaloh until 12 noon, Mateja Udovč from 11 a.m. to 14 p.m., Jan Mahnic from 13.30 p.m. to 15.30 p.m., Bojan Podprivšek from 13.30 p.m. to 15.30 p.m., Jožef Lenart from 13.30 p.m. and I am also excused from 10.45 p.m. to 15.30 p.m. I welcome all those present once again! We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, that's the first defence proposal for a law amending the law on income. The draft law was tabled by a group of seven Members and Members with first-signed Mr Joseph Horvat. With regard to this bill, a group of eleven Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Joseph Horvat requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the first-signed Mr Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, distinguished secretary of state with co-workers, dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In the field of labour tax burden, Slovenia is among countries with an average high percentage of duties. While the average OECD is 36%, the burden on Slovenia is 42.7%. On the other hand, the share of all taxes in GDP shows well the overall tax burden in the country. And if we compare ourselves with the most developed countries within the OECD, the share of all taxes throughout GDP is above average. In Slovenia, there are around 37% and the OECD average is 34%, i.e. 3 percentage points. The World Economic Forum report estimates that for the business environment in Slovenia, in addition to ineffective state bureaucracy, the most difficult factor is the tax rate. The 2016 Spirit survey shows that foreign investors among the biggest obstacles to investment in Slovenia see the exact burden of work with taxes and contributions and labour costs, followed by taxation of profits and income. However, the business survey carried out between German companies in Slovenia in 2015 shows that respondents see tax rates on income from work among the greatest competitiveness and attractiveness problems for investments and expect the government to reduce them as the most necessary measure. The amount of general income relief is currently set in the Income Act as a reduction in the annual tax base of 3 000 302.7 euros per year. In addition to this level of general relief, two additional categories of general relief are provided for persons with lower incomes. New Slovenia is a party that advocates a socio-market model of an economy that advocates economic freedom, the freedom that is closely linked to responsibility. New Slovenia is a party with a limited tax burden in its programme as one of the main principles. Too much tax burden is contrary to the Christian democratic principle of subsidiarity, whereby all social processes in which this is possible should be carried out at the most basic social level. The country should only enter into these processes when it is no longer able to perform optimally at a lower level. Christian Democrats believe that an individual is much more responsible and rational in handling financial resources than a country, so that only a limited amount of the resources necessary to operate its systems can be transferred to the country through taxes. On the other hand, citizens should retain a greater proportion of the resources they have created themselves with their abilities and work. The proposal for the New Slovenia Act, which is currently ahead of us, foresees an increase in the legal provision from 3 000 302 euros per year to 7 000 euros for all equally. We propose a change to the general income relief because we want to relieve the high tax burden on the taxpayers and consequently to improve the environment for employment and the development of economic activities. The parties to the previous coalition are boasting of high economic growth, which we probably all understand is due mainly to our entrepreneurs and their employees. On the other hand, the fruits of this growth are not ready to be shared with them. The salary of a highly qualified employee of EUR 3 000 must be paid by the Slovenian employer EUR 6 000 128 and the Czech employee EUR 5 000 676, which is a good EUR 300 less. We know that some countries, which have been much less economically developed up until recently, are ahead of us because of their more competitive business environment. That is why we must adapt our tax policy to this economic reality. The proposal also saves so-called migrant workers, as the need for high income supplementation in the Republic of Slovenia is eliminated by increased overall relief. In addition, a fair tax environment is being established for workers who receive income from a foreign employer. The aim of this is to stop the increasing migration of families over the last period. With the proposed regulation, workers who work abroad for the same gross income as workers in our country will receive the same income available. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we expect a constructive debate and we also expect to improve the law in the second reading. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Natalija Kovac Jereb, will present the Government's position. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u4	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! We have before us the amendment to the Income Act, by which the Group of Members proposes: exemption from the income of a resident from a foreign employment relationship received from a foreign employer or a foreign institution, an increase of EUR 7 000 in general relief, a reduction in the maximum income rate from 50% to 43%, and the reintroduction of annual automatic harmonisation of tax reliefs with an increase in the cost of living. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted an opinion on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Income. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposal of the law and considers that it is not suitable for further consideration. The proposal does not support, in particular, two aspects, in terms of the sustainability of public financial revenues and in view of the unjustified derogation from the constitutional principle of equality before the law. The government is aware of the importance of a favourable business environment and the impact of tax burdens on the competitiveness of the economy, but measures in this area must also be pursued in order to maintain the sustainability and stability of public finances. This requires the preparation of measures based on the restructuring of public benefits, taking into account the necessary structural reforms in the health, pension and long-term care systems. The proposal means a shortfall in revenue in the state budget for around EUR 597 million. The increase in general relief amounts to EUR 552 million outage; the reduction in the highest income rate – EUR 12 million out; and the proposal to exempt the income of the resident from the employment relationship abroad – amounts to around EUR 33 million outage. The proposed solution, therefore based on a reduction in taxes on work, does not directly represent an economic burden, as it is a solution that would only increase the individual's income available. However, this solution could have only minor effects on the increase in private consumption and thus a slightly higher VAT spill which could not replace lower income flows, as the applicants state. It is estimated that a higher inflow from value added tax can be expected for only around EUR 28 million. It should also be borne in mind that the largest share of the labour burden in Slovenia is social security contributions, which suggests that compulsory social insurance schemes should also be taken into account. While data show that Slovenia is quite unfavourable after tax burdens and contributions under the European Union average of 38.9 GDP for 2016 and 36.6 % for Slovenia, the economic structure of taxes is rather unfavourable as it deviates from the average of European countries due to the over-average burden of labour and consumption and the under-average burden of capital and property. The government proposes that income shall not be paid from the income of a resident from a working relationship abroad. Nor does it support this proposal in view of the unjustified derogation from the constitutional principle of equality before the law, as already established by the Constitutional Court Decision 2013. The applicants did not express reasonable and real reasons for the privileged tax situation of cross-border labour migrants, as it is comparable income from the employment relationship as achieved by residents from the employer or institution in Slovenia. In recent years, this issue has already been addressed at the level of tax treatment of costs by taking into account the constitutional principle of equality before the law. With regard to the proposal to reintroduce automatic coordination of incentives, it should be pointed out that the coordination of incentives and scales in 2013 has not been discontinued. Only a different system of coordination was introduced, which is not automatic, by binding to only one criterion. According to the Government, the current mode of coordination is appropriate, as it does not only follow one criterion, the real growth of the needs of life, but also the economic policy of the government. Your Honor, the Government does not support the law and suggests that the bill is not supported. The tax burden on work is one of the government's important priorities, but only on the basis of the restructuring of tax burdens and on the wider social and political consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u5	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Jože Lenart has the word on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We will not support the bill in the Marjana Sharca Group because it is very narrowly targeted and heavily burdensome for the state budget. This would result in about €597 million less in the budget. What does that mean? Gross interference with health and pension bills, which would give their citizens, especially those who are socially more at risk, to their social rights. By establishing a single tax relief, it would in fact increase the difference between the poor and the rich, as they would all fall to the same amount of relief; taxation would no longer be gradual because those with less income have more relief and those with more income less relief; which is extremely unfair to those with lower incomes. The reduction in the tax rate from the current 50% to 43% is again a measure which financially strengthens only the highest layer and is not intended for the average honest Slovenian who struggles with his family budget every month. How many Slovenians do they make every year? $70,000.907 or more. The available income would thus only increase to citizens who already have the highest income. As regards migrant workers, it should be pointed out that they are in exactly the same situation as all other Slovenian tax residents, as the Constitutional Court found in 2013. Like all citizens, they use all the domestic infrastructure provided by our legislation and system. Therefore, it is also appropriate to pay the tax from which state services are financed — education, health care, kindergartens and social transfers. We are aware that the competitiveness of the economy is crucial for the country and that tax burdens also affect it. Therefore, in the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca, we have committed ourselves to reducing the wage burdens on income under public funding options, with the proposal being prepared on the basis of an expert analysis of the entire income system and being addressed in a comprehensive and systematic manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u8	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues from the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Today we have a new proposal to amend the Income Act. Its key solution is to increase the general tax relief more than twice, reducing the tax base for all. Certainly not the first with this similar content, we have dealt with almost the same proposal four times in the last term. In addition to the increase in general tax relief, the abolition of the highest income class and the re-harmonisation of the level of reliefs. They were all rejected by a simple and similar argument. Such a general reduction in income taxes would significantly overcut our total revenue so that these revenues could otherwise be compensated. However, the expected increased consumption due to higher human income would not bring nearly enough for the country to function normally. And we have repeated this, dear colleagues from New Slovenia, on many occasions. The introductory explanation of the bill this time focuses considerable attention on the issue of Slovenian cross-border workers or day-to-day migrant workers. It is clear from the explanation that the comparison of tax systems and burdens is very complex. The Slovenian and Austrian tax systems differ in a number of important details, such as the amount of reliefs. Significant differences arise mainly in the tax treatment of individual types of income that one country, for example, incorporates into the tax base and taxes them and the other the same type of income is exempt from the tax base. This is a cost-recovery for transport and food and for its recognised level, payments of various additives which are not included, for example, in the income base in neighbouring Austria. Such cases are too many to be listed here. However, it is common for all to be particularly affected by a particular group of people who have to save their existence by working abroad. The problem has been tackled by several amendments to this Act, which in its Articles 44 and 45 gives the possibility to exempt certain types of income from the income base. No matter how many attempts to address this problem, it remains unresolved. In an attempt to take further account of the specificities of the States and the specificities of the debtors, even the Constitutional Court intervened. However, the solutions proposed today are still too general and under-targeted and, in my opinion, also absolutely too expensive for this country, as these measures would reduce the budget by more than €500 million. The bulk of this sum is excluded from the overall increase in tax relief. Taking into account that the annual amount of income collected amounts to EUR billion and EUR 600 million, this would mean that tax revenues from income would reduce by almost one third. I'm sure if Nova Slovenija were in the government, I would never do that. Of course, the vast majority of proposals do not even have to do with the pressing problems of day-to-day labour migrants. The proposal is, for the most part, only to allow the applicant to repeat his tested speech. With regard to an article that actually allows for at least minimum consideration of the differences in reimbursement costs between countries, and thus at least for the minor benefit of our workers abroad, the applicant simply deletes this Article. Social Democrats are convinced that the anomaly of the Slovenian tax system needs to be rectified, so we are also pleased that tax restructuring, which would relieve work, does not dismantle the functioning system, is an important objective of the coalition. In the coming year, we are expecting proposals from the Ministry and Government to fully improve our tax system. The problem of Slovenk and Slovenes working for employers abroad is certainly a priority for us and we expect concrete proposals – targeted, recalculated and, of course, justified. These criteria, however, today's proposal absolutely does not contain any such criteria. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will therefore not support the proposed amendments to the law and, at the end of the debate, we will oppose the proposal for a decision that the bill is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Gregor Perič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! The proposal for a law amending the Income Act, which was tabled by the New Slovenia Group, provides for an increase in the legal provision from EUR 3 000 302 per year to a single relief of EUR 7 000 per year. In addition, the applicant proposes to reduce the 50% rate of income to 43% and to reintroduce the harmonisation of tax incentives with the increase in the price of living needs. The proposal, while addressing the objectives and objectives that we also agree with in the Group of the Modern Centre Party, followed by the Government by its actions or proposals for measures aimed at reducing the tax burdens on work and supporting the possibility of further stable economic growth. In doing so, we must be aware that changes in the area of public charges in addition to improving the competitiveness of the Slovenian business environment, on the other hand, must also ensure stable and predictable public financial revenues. In fact, the proposed law would increase the structural deficit by increasing the overall relief to €7,000 and would result in a government budget deficit of around €597 million, which is more than 1% of gross domestic product. However, the law would have a practical impact on all debtors who are applying a general benefit; these are more than 95 % of all taxpayers for income. The proposed solution, based on the reduction of taxes on work, does not directly represent a burden on the economy, as it is a solution that increases the available income on an individual but does not affect the employer's gross obligation. The latter could have consequences for increasing private consumption, including slightly higher VAT revenues. However, if the bill was adopted in this form, as we have today on the table, it would lead to negative effects on public finances, since, assuming that those in lower income classes would devote the entire burden to consumption, the government estimates that VAT revenues could increase by a maximum of EUR 28 million, so that it is not yet possible to cover the tax revenue shortfall of EUR 597 million. In view of the international comparison of the burden with taxes and contributions, it should be pointed out that Slovenia is, according to the European Commission, below the average of the European Union. The average tax and contribution burden in the European Union amounted to 38.9% of GDP in 2016, which is 2.3 percentage points higher than in Slovenia; however, the data on the economic structure of taxes and contributions show that the economic structure of taxes is not the most favourable since it deviates from the average of European countries due to the over-the-average burden of labour with social security and consumption contributions and the under-average burden of capital and property. The latter is also important from the point of view of the burden assessment, as it is necessary to look in detail and at the same time comprehensively, not only from the point of view of one tax or one group of taxes. Of course, we also want to reduce the key above-average burdens in the Modern Centre Party and thereby strengthen economic growth, and several measures by the previous government of Dr. Mir Cerar have already been directed towards tax restructuring and reduction of labour burdens as a factor that has the most negative impact on competitiveness and at the same time poses an important obstacle to further economic growth. We have also committed coalition partners in the current government to reduce wage burdens by raising general income relief or possible intervention in the income scale and classes, in accordance with the public financial capabilities. The proposal will be prepared on the basis of an expert analysis of the entire income system and related areas. Finally, let me point out that in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we believe that all such proposed measures must be in line with the fiscal rule and be balanced in advance and consistent with our public financial capabilities, as well as with the government's commitments to a stable and sustainable public financial policy. All this in order to avoid an increase in the structural deficit. For all the reasons mentioned above, the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party will vote against the law proposal being suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Good-bye! The proposal of New Slovenia, which we have before us, is already well known from previous mandates. It is not about promoting the economy, it is about increasing competitiveness, but not about the middle class and low-income people, as the applicant will insist quickly. In fact, NSI wants to rebate taxes for the richest and privileged by increasing the general tax relief and reducing the maximum threshold rate of income. Let me illustrate: those with the lowest wages would, on such a proposal, which foresees about €5 a month less, afford more than a pound more. On the other hand, those in the highest income grade would get almost € 160 per month, which is enough for a good 17 wines per year. This is quite a generous gift to the richest. And what's going on has to be taken somewhere. All these income cuts proposed by NSI would amount to more than half a billion deficits in the state treasury, representing a drop of more than a quarter of the income from income. The proponents advocate alchemy. They argue that, in turn, there would be a proportionate increase in the inflows due to increased consumption, I repeat, those with minimum revenues would be increased by a few euros and their consumption would be more focused on goods with a minimum rate of tax burden, i.e. food. However, for those that would be most burdensome, there is no expectation of an increase in consumption, an increase in surplus would be invested in banks, securities and luxuries; therefore, not in consumption that would contribute to public cash. Even if the entire amount were to be spent, which would not happen, the revenue from the levies on this amount would be up to a maximum of EUR 28 million, I repeat, at the expected decline of EUR 563 million. This would mean a significant deterioration in the situation for everyone in the medium and long term. The country has devoted a significant proportion of these funds to investment and development, which benefits the largest group of people. In the absence of pension funds – by the way, they are already paid about 30% out of the budget, not from social contributions – the proposal is obviously absurd for health and education. Reducing taxes also does not mean decommissioning the economy, but rather disproportionate burdening of the lowest classes. The fact is that Slovenia has one of the most heavily burdened economies in the European Union. In Slovenia, capital taxes are strong below the average of the European Union, the same applies to income from work, even when we look at families with at least one child. New Slovenia's proposal structurally deepens inequality among people. During the crisis and the most stringent austerity measures, i.e. in 2013, Gini's highest coefficient in Slovenia was at the expense of the highest level, indicating a trend where inequality is highest in a society that disproportionately burdens weaker than the most powerful. The path we defend is a society of prosperity without class distinctions, not an increase in those. We will therefore not support this proposal in Levika. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u14	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! In Novi Slovenija, we want to raise the salary for all citizens. We want to ensure higher wages, and it shows at this very point how some two-faced people can be, how they talk about raising wages only to the most powerful. Of course it doesn't. Our proposals go in a direction to raise wages for everyone. This is what we want to ensure by lower taxes and not by raising gross wages. We want to ensure higher net wages for all citizens in a way that the country gives up its income. When we went to the electoral campaign before these state-run elections and met with different organisations, there was more or less agreement within the policy that if we raise wages, we would do so with income, so that the state would give up the work of income. Why do we find it most appropriate to increase wages with lower income? Because this does not endanger the pension and health bills. At the same time, with lower income, we do not raise gross wages and thus impose additional burden on the economies. This was in some way the consensus of the entire policy before these state-level elections that we would go for economic conjuncture to raise wages, but in a way with income; and not by gross wage increases that we would not burden an additional economy, but that the state of the part of the tax would cancel and thus all citizens would receive higher net revenues. At the same time, it is a positive feature of increasing net revenues, as I said, that we do not endanger the pension and health allowance. In New Slovenia, we are aware that if we accept which will leave more people in their pockets, consumption will increase. Even in this opinion, the government has acknowledged that this measure can contribute to increased consumption; and it has shyly predicted that this measure would only increase the budget revenue from value added tax by EUR 28 million. On the other hand, the second part of this story has forgotten to say that higher consumption on the other hand also represents higher demand and higher demand usually represents higher job requirements. And every employee in the Republic of Slovenia is a dual benefit for this country. It does not have to pay for social transfers and is also paying into the pension and health treasury. This part of you forget that higher domestic consumption means higher demand and higher demand also means more employees and thus more payments to pension and health allowance. This aspect of many, even government, deliberately overlooks. What are the concrete solutions proposed in this new Law on Income? This amendment to the law brings four important solutions, and I will start with the simplest. The simplest is the harmonisation of tax reliefs with inflation. It seems fair and proper to us, as in the past, that tax reliefs are raised by inflation. Because if we don't align it with inflation, then it means that the real value of these benefits is actually falling; every year inflation is, which means that the value of these benefits is lower every year if we don't align it with inflation. And it seems to us that we have made a correct, useful proposal, which we have already had in the past and we would like to re-establish. Another thing that is highly ideologically burdened and will always be used by leftists against us, allowing the rich to be even richer and more like stupidity. It is a matter of reducing the maximum income rate from 50% to 43%. The government has even honestly announced that this would mean a budget shortfall of around 12 million euros, but this would have huge demonstration positive effects. When many competitiveness scales are done, the highest level of income is one of the key things that is looked at practically always when doing these scales, or one of the first things. This is the thing that brings Slovenia down the ladder on all the competitiveness scales. Many will say what we care about if we are dragged down the ladder; but these scales are very important for external, foreign investors who are thinking about whether their millions will invest their money in Slovenia. And one of the things they first check is the international competitiveness scales and other economic scales, which show the state of Slovenia and the business environment of Slovenia. Recently, I spoke to the accountant, who said he simply did not understand Slovenia, so that following the example of Austria and some other countries would try to get as many rich tax residents as possible who would come to Slovenia to pay taxes in Slovenia; and not vice versa. A very interesting case is former German racer Ralph Schumacher, brother of Michael Schumacher, who has a tax residence in Austria. This would, for example, be a model that Slovenia should follow in order to find ways to attract rich people to Slovenia, to leave their taxes in Slovenia. And it's not possible, above all, with this demagogy, which is haunted by the long and cross of the Left, that all the people they have are driven out of this country. This, of course, also leaves taxes and money from this country, which is bad. If, as proposed in this new Law on Income, the highest rate of income was reduced from 50 to 43%, those with slightly higher income would still pay the highest tax in Slovenia. That's what they forget on the left. These people, even if they had a 43% tax rate instead of a 50% income rate, would still pay the most or a lot of taxes in this country. But they, in their ideological blindness, represent as if we were to exempt them from taxes, as if these people would now be exempt from taxes and would not pay anything in the budget. They will still pay the most, I underline, they will still pay the most; the important difference is that Slovenia will be more competitive than the other world. This is our second solution. Now we are moving on to a third solution, which I think is crucial, which is to raise the general income relief from the current EUR 3 000 300 to EUR 7 000. This solution would solve a number of migrant workers' problems. This solution would raise wages in this country for all employees. And now look at this duplicity! In recent weeks, we have had the opportunity to monitor, to see several signatures of agreements that will cost this country 300 million euros, some 100 million euros; when you put it all together, you will quickly reach half a billion euros. There is no fear for the budget here, there is no problem here – that is true; but when you come up with a solution to provide everyone with a net salary, it is a major problem that will endanger the state budget. Or if I make a comparison, now that the government has reached an agreement with the public sector and this state budget will cost 300 million euros more this year because the total gross wages will increase, this is not a problem for the government coalition and it is all in line with the fiscal rule and there is no problem. However, that our solution would be adopted, which would not only raise net wages for all employees in the public sector, but would cost the country around EUR 500 million; this is a major problem. But it also means to all those in the public sector, including those. And if anything, then this Parliament should see that it is just for everyone and that it has about the same vat for everyone. And if we raise wages, then we give them to everyone, not just the public sector employees. This solution, which we are proposing, would mean that someone with an average net salary in Slovenia would have a monthly higher net income of €83. If you multiply it by 12, you get a pretty good year's income more. And if this solution were adopted and supported by the government coalition, it would mean that this solution could also slightly curb the appetites of all trade unions. If the higher general income relief were to raise net wages, the pressure would be lower after the general increase in public sector wages. But so much about when we are told that wages are going to rise to everyone, 500 million is a problem if wages are raised only in the public sector for 300 million euros, that is not a problem. I can't accept that logic. And the fourth most important solution in this law is the situation of migrant workers. If we want to understand the problem of migrant workers, we need to know that the labour legislation in Slovenia is prepared and adopted on the basis of agreement and coordination between the social partners. And also in line with the tax legislation of Slovenia, for example, this is demonstrated by the second paragraph of Article 44 of the Income Act, which expressly stipulates that only the labour legislation of Slovenia and collective bargaining in Slovenia should be taken into account when determining income from the employment relationship that is not included in the tax base. Therefore, in New Slovenia we wonder which labour legislation and which collective agreements apply to migrant workers or residents who create their income from a working relationship abroad. Which one? Foreign labour legislation does not apply to them, as stated in Article 44 of the Income Act, which is understandable, since negotiation and coordination between social partners in a foreign country and does not take place with the Slovenian government. Slovenian labour law and collective agreements are also not in force because they are not in line with foreign employers and employees. In Novi Slovenija we believe that if Slovenian migrant workers are subject to the same duties as Slovenian worker in payment of income, they must also recognise the same rights as Slovenian worker. It is a fundamental constitutional principle of equality. Slovenian tax legislation has already seen and tried to eliminate differences in foreign labour legislation regarding costs. According to the calculations and comparisons annexed to our amendment to the law, it has unfortunately failed and done so to the detriment of migrant workers. It is contradictive that the government is constantly seeking excuses that it is not possible to find a different treatment for migrant workers due to a decision of the Constitutional Court; at the same time, migrant workers and domestic workers have been recognised in a different way for all these years. On the one hand, the government argues that there is no other way to settle matters, on the other hand. If some still believe that there is no reason to treat residents who achieve their income abroad differently, why does the coalition not simply change the Income Law so that all residents of Slovenia have the same recognised labour costs, i.e. migrant workers, to whom these costs are recognised as facilitating. It should be borne in mind that the costs related to work are only one of the items where differences arise; however, unless Slovenia has seen a difference in other items under labour law, it does not mean that they do not exist. Slovenia recognises to domestic workers the right to better pay for special forms of work such as night work, work on Sundays, holidays, work with hazardous waste and so on. On the other hand, if, for example, social partners abroad agree not to receive an allowance for night work, but instead to be exempt from tax, it will be concluded with foreign tax legislation, a worker abroad will be rewarded with a higher net payment for night work, in a manner similar to the one awarded by a worker in Slovenia with a night work allowance. However, the difference arises because income from abroad, in this case for night work, is not in line with the tax legislation in Slovenia and Slovenia for this migrant worker's right to an allowance for night work, and this allowance taxes him 100 percent with the excuse to pay only a difference in Slovenia. It is sad that it has been explained throughout Slovenia that migrant workers pay a difference in income in Slovenia, but no one can prove this difference by calculations. In Novi Slovenija, we have given absolutely detailed attention to the problem of migrant workers. We have come to the conclusion that it is in no way possible for migrant workers to guarantee equal rights under labour law and collective agreements in Slovenia, which consequently means that, unfortunately, they will always be discriminated against if they are tried to be compared with domestic workers by income. The only fair solution for residents with income from abroad is to exempt this income from taxation in the Republic of Slovenia with progressiveity, which is also mentioned in this legislation. I believe these things are overly detailed for whom, but just because things are extremely complicated, migrant workers have a lot of problems. And the problem that is emerging is that more and more of our people, who still have residence in Slovenia today, decide to transfer the tax residence to Austria. And if this country doesn't do something quickly, if your government doesn't do something quickly, then thousands of our young families will move to Austria and apply for tax residence in Austria. This is not what the opposition New Slovenia tells you; this is what the Migrant Workers Union tells you and many families working in Austria. And if you don't want to listen to us, then at least listen to them. Due to all four of these solutions, New Slovenia will of course support the proposal of the law. We would like to see this law adopted at first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We have a procedural proposal from Mrs. Natasha Sukic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u16	Thank you very much, chairman. I give a strong protest, and I ask for a reminder to the Member of the Council for the expression of the tendentious insults and with nothing to back up the claims that belong more in the field of demagogy than in politics, that the Left of this country expels citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u17	Thank you for your procedural proposal. Just let me say what I said yesterday. I ask all Members and Members that you are respectful of other Members and Members, as well as of other people, and also of the groups of Members. Mr Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u18	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Income is a direct tax, it is said that it is directly administered to the debtor. It covers increasingly important forms of income of natural persons with exceptions and facilitations. The change of law, which concerns such a large number of citizens and citizens, is always an opportunity to perform. The correctness of the content and the wrongness of the joints do not matter, they are negligible. At least three are the basic proposals advocated by the proposer: the first is to raise the overall relief from 3 000 302.7 euros annually to 7 000 euros; the second is to reduce the highest income rate from 50% to 43%; and the third postulate is to automatically align tax reliefs with the increase in the price of living needs. I'll limit myself to the first two basic postulates. The proposed increase of the general benefit to EUR 7 000 and the reduction of the maximum threshold of income from 50% to 43% would result in a drop in revenue of around EUR 563 million, but taking into account two conditions: based on the 2016 rate of income data and on the assumption of an unaltered amount of income. In doing so, it is worth asking what the compensatory effects are. This is mainly a proposal to increase the income available to individuals; this could have an impact on higher private consumption, which would result in higher inflows of value added tax. The decommissioning of income has the highest impact in lower income classes, which are more liquidity-limited than other income classes and spend all additional income on consumption. To the greatest extent, the consumption of this group of taxpayers is linked to the purchase of goods with a lower tax rate. Under these assumptions, income from value added tax could increase by around EUR 30 million. And in this place, ladies and gentlemen, it is worth asking, the main tax source of funding is income. This is best illustrated when we look at the Law on the Financing of the Congregations, the article that speaks of its own sources of funding for the congregations. He says: “The source of funding for municipalities is the income of 54 % of the income paid in the preceding year for which the total appropriate consumption of municipalities is calculated.” The revenue is far from the most important fiscal source of funding for municipal budgets. The share of income in the total revenue of municipal budgets varies between 60 and 85% in Slovenian municipalities, depending on their size, and in particular on the financial capacity of residents who pay their income on their territory. And in particular, ladies and gentlemen, I am talking about total revenue, not just tax revenue, I am also talking about non-taxable capital and transfer revenue here. Any reduction in such revenue from municipal budgets would be totally inconsistent with the basic principle of financing local self-government, which states that all available resources from local authorities must be in proportion to the powers and tasks laid down in the legislation. However, some of these original responsibilities, or tasks, of the municipalities, would be thoroughly squandered by reducing the basic financial source of income. I'll mention them. The first is the regulation and maintenance of water and energy utilities. From this source are built, maintained and regulated by local roads, all local public road infrastructures, from local roads, public roads and uncategorised roads. These resources also finance the organisation and promotion of pre-school and primary education services, the full provision of material conditions for the functioning of what is under the responsibility of municipalities or institutions of local self-government. From this source, the functioning of fire safety and the organisation of rescue aid are partly co-financed. These are just some parts, some of the original powers of local self-government financed by income. Any reduction in such resources would, in an operational sense, constitute insurmountable, insurmountable problems in the day-to-day operations of municipalities as institutions of local self-government. In the Desus Group, we believe that any tax reduction, one tax, one type of tax should be replaced by another tax source. Only in such a case is any reform of the tax system or of a certain tax neutral and will not result in a reduction of budgetary revenues. Above all, we are convinced that, in the future, it is appropriate to take measures in the field of tax policy that will not increase or potentially increase income inequality. The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will therefore vote against the law being suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jani Ivanuš has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Ladies of the Ministry of Finance, other present, nice greeting! We have before us a bill amending the Income Act. The proposal follows the objective of reducing the tax burden on work, increasing net wages and increasing productivity that can be brought about by the tax burden on the most qualified employees. By reintroducing the harmonisation of tax incentives, we can adapt their scope to changing the cost of living and thus align them with the real economic processes that are taking place in society. The main solution to the proposed law provides for an increase in the statutory general relief from 3 000 300.7 euros per year to a single relief of 7 000 euros per year. In addition, a reduction in the rate of income from 50% to 43% is proposed. The bill reintroduces the harmonisation of tax benefits – we are talking about general relief, personal relief, special relief for dependent family members and relief for voluntary supplementary pension insurance – with an increase in the cost of living. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party is that the draft law must be supported. According to the government's assessment, on the one hand, the drop in revenue flows to the state budget and the reduction in the highest income rate to 43%, we have heard a number of different estimates of what this would be, between EUR 500 and 600 million. On the other hand, the government expects more consumption, resulting in a higher inflow of consumer taxes. It also foresees greater economic activity, which would certainly have a positive impact on the state budget. However, the government cannot measure this in value. Once again, I stress that we do not oppose and support the bill in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The word has magic. Mr Andrej Šircelj on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u22	Thank you very much, President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Four things are proposed by Nova Slovenija to change in the Income Act. Allow me to focus my opinion more on one, raising the overall relief from the current EUR 3 000 300 to EUR 7 000. Here we have to ask what the tax system should be like. What are those principles that should be based on? Mostly income. One of the basic principles on which it is intended to be based and to be based, and also when a new income has been adopted, was the principle of fairness, ladies and gentlemen. The principle of righteousness. What does this principle mean? We can say that each of us here can represent our own principle, but we also have some criterion for this principle in income; and this principle is also in accordance with Article 2 of the Constitution, this is that Slovenia is a social state. And if we give information, 2017 applies this data, where the poverty line is in Slovenia. According to statistics, the poverty line is €7 000 600. Here I allow the risk that some colleagues and colleagues will give me a slightly more social and so-called left-wing note, but let it just be that way. EUR 7 000 600 is the poverty line and EUR 3 000 300 is a general relief, ladies and gentlemen. In other words, this country taxes the income that is urgently needed for people's lives. And by telling all the parties to the coalition and the coalition, the Left, how you won't support this law, that means you'd rather take people's taxes, money than let them have the level of life that allows them to minimum. Slovenia taxes poverty and the poorest. This is one of the fundamental criteria, the fundamental criteria – the limit of poverty – in the design of any tax legislation and in the design and proposal of general relief. And in all countries and in the views of the OECD, the European Commission and the IMF, you are determined that poverty is not taxed. The statistics say 7 000 600, you're against raising the general relief to 7 000 euros. Is that social, ladies and gentlemen? We can calculate here how much one gets more and how much the other gets more. Also in 2006 and 2007 such comparisons were made by one person who, by the way, is now running or not running for Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. At the time, he was talking about sausages and Beemwei, and now he's on the spot, and someone's picking it up here. That's what happened back then. Things happen all over again. But once again, this coalition taxes people and that income they need to survive if you want. And by constitutional stipulation that Slovenia is a social state. Slovenia, of course, is also a country where a fiscal rule is to apply, meaning that revenue and expenditure should be harmonised, equal and so on. And it's obvious here that we would lose 560, 570 million; and the country would fall from this point of view, and I don't know what would happen. The government says that the stability of public finances would be undermined, and so on and so forth. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2017, the public treasury received a billion more money in 2016, a billion more. We can ask ourselves where this money is now, but that 500 million means half that billion more. In 2018, revenues continue to rise according to 2017, which means that we can estimate a billion and a half more money. Here is a European comparison of the share of European taxes in gross social product; there is just over 38%; in Slovenia there is 36% and so much less. Ladies and gentlemen, these are, for the first time, averages and, secondly, do not interfere with the structure of taxes. I'm not saying that our tax structure is ideal, but if we're talking about income, then we need to know, for the first time, that this law does not interfere with fiscal rules, because the state has received so much more taxes, that's proveable. Secondly, those who do not support this law do not support the social state and tax the poorest. The revenue of €7 000 600 is the poverty line in Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen. In this respect, there is also a different comparison with other countries as to how certain incomes are considered otherwise or not, inappropriate or incomplete, because not everything is said. It is not said that the compulsory payment in Austria is also the thirteenth and fourteenth salaries, which are almost non-taxable, regardless of how they deal with transport to work, transport from work, lunch or anything else. From this point of view, if we not only follow Slovenia as a social state, it is the fact that, when we have so low a relief of EUR 3 000 300, including inhuman, inhuman, unethical and immoral, ladies and gentlemen; and contrary to the tax profession, which does not allow the cost of living that is strictly necessary for life to be taxed, as we tax them. This would solve a lot of problems if this tax relief increased. In part, we would resolve the issue of migrant workers, partly solve the structure of tax legislation, they would be more fair, more ethical, more moral. But this marriage is the law's paper for this coalition and supercolation. All the calculations, as much as one more and the other less, ladies and gentlemen, are really irrelevant here, because everyone — rich and poor — must be assured, in accordance with fully human principles, that in this country the money that is urgently needed for life is non-taxable if we are a social state. Also the arguments against this tax, forgive me, I think in most cases they do not hold, here I am also thinking of the government's arguments which the main argument is – We will also restructure taxes in relation to other public activities, health care, pensions and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we've been waiting for before, and we've been waiting five years for some government, waiting for waiting species to get longer, and I wouldn't be talking about it right now. I am talking about this view that this will be done by restructuring other activities. Nothing's gonna happen. We can also talk since 2004. [[advertising from the hall]] President, will you allow me to say this to the end? We are also discussing 2004 if you want and if it will benefit us to adopt a solution that does not tax poverty because it is immoral, unethical and inhuman. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support this law for these very reasons. In one word, for the sake of humanity.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We have thus concluded with the presentations of the parliamentary groups and are moving on to a general debate. The first shall have the floor of the proposer. You took Mrs. Ivy Dimic's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President, for giving me your word. And I haven't taken a word from anyone, and I don't have that authority. Thank you all, dear colleagues, for your views on our proposal for the Income Act. Thank you Slovenian Democratic Party and Slovenian National Party, which support this law in addition to New Slovenia. I apologize in advance if I will mention a name in this first performance, because I am responding to the views of the groups of Members, and I am not supposed to allow the names here. I hope I don't miss it. I would expect the government to make a dynamic calculation, not just static. The last one we can calculate for ourselves. Then virtually all six government parties kept saying that it was not a 570 million-euro drop. It's a static calculation. Perhaps later in the debate, like Friday, someone will ask where the source is. Where's the source? We don't need a source here. Money stays with people. With the taxpayers, more specifically. If you look at the data from 2016 that they know at the Ministry of Finance in zero, there were 1 million 522 thousand 245 taxpayers. If you now divide this loss of 597 million after the static calculation into a million and a half taxpayers, you get the number 392 euros, so much would be left in the pocket of the taxpayer, the tax resident of the Republic of Slovenia. It's not too much money for us. EUR 392 remains in the pocket of the taxpayer. Of course, you have expressed the majority opinion that you are against leaving this to the people. These aren't capitalists. Of course, they're espies, some of them are equal. But these are the taxpayers, the citizens of this country. I'd love to, but I don't know if I'm gonna wait for the Ministry of Finance to be the Ministry of Development. I do not like the Ministry of Finance, which would only be the accounting of the Republic of Slovenia and which would look – Aha, on the debit page so much, on the credit side so much; on the income side so much, on the expenditure side so much, we have to be careful about balance. You will probably continue to tell us that we are very much in favour of respect for the Constitution in terms of fiscal rules and of respect for the Fiscal Rule Act. Sure. I am pleased that we have been able to hear and read earlier by the government that the economic structure of the tax in the Republic of Slovenia is unfavourable. Thank you very much for that opinion, I agree. Probably agrees with all of us 90. That is why, on Monday, on the day of this meeting of the National Assembly, I asked Mr Prime Minister only about the concept of a new tax reform or, as you say, restructuring tax burdens. Just a concept, I didn't want numbers. You yourself have heard and seen what we have experienced. I have never experienced such ridicule in my entire mission career as I did on Monday. If this goes on, we will act in our own way in accordance with the rules in force in this country and in this national assembly. In order, the client of the List of Marjan Šarc, we calculate taxes with a percentage account. The percentage, even from primary school, is the basis of the percentage divided by 100. And normally, if the base is bigger, if you earn more, you pay more income in this case. Dr. Bertonclja, when he was still a candidate for the Minister of Finance, I asked at the hearing: Dr. Bertoncelj, will you abolish the 50% tax rate of income?" He expected this question and he had a calculation on the table and he said, "That's about 15 million outages, which means it's not much." Yes, every euro is valuable, but 15 million compared to the total tax revenue. However, the signal would be good, very good if it had already been implemented by this government since 1 January 2019. I hope we agree with that. Yes, the constitutional decision was in some ways your saving plant, but this is not the solution that the Constitutional Court ruled out in relation to migrant workers, this is a different solution. The Constitutional Court has yet to say to this solution that we are proposing that we understand each other. However, we would like to see in New Slovenia that all constitutional decisions are respected equally. Probably not the same opinion here. The LMŠ wants a comprehensive and systematic treatment of the tax problem, the restructuring of tax burdens. Yeah, well, the problem is, we haven't heard when. When Mrs Erman was the first lady of the Ministry of Finance, she said: In 2019 we will analyse, recalculate, model and so on." At the end of the following year, one third of your mandate is over or over, perhaps nearly half because in the last year, the fourth year – I want you to rule for four years – nothing is happening. Thank you for the opinion of the Social Democrats, who have been in charge for many years, who have been responsible for work, family and social affairs. Ten years you've been talking and promising this tax restructuring, but what do we have today?Oh, my God! We have today because of this strong, such good social policy close to 280 thousand people below the poverty line. I thank the representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party, who explained very well why 7 000. Not because seven is a fairy tale number, but because if you multiply the poverty risk threshold for a one-member household by 12, it's about 630 times 12, you get a good 7 grand a month. We have really rounded down to 7,000, even so that people can calculate their income as easily as possible. Today, maybe two or three Members can calculate this. I'm sorry, colleagues and colleagues, I appreciate your competence, but that's how we've complicated these algorithms that it's a little bit problematic right now. And it's true, it's not moral for the state to take away that money you need to spend a month smoking in the winter to get dressed. It's not moral. And here we are also talking about the moral and ethical issues of tax policy. And when you ask us and the thorns, what is this exit, I will ask all the parliamentary groups that have been in the government in the last term, how many people did your ministers employ just before the end of the term? Did you ask yourself, how much did this increase the amount of wages? And the current, new coalition partners, how many of them have you hired in the state apparatus by now? Did you ask yourself how much this increased the cost? Yes, because it has also increased income, because they are employees, they will also pay income. Several agreements were signed in the last week, where some 100 million were public sector. Okay. What about the real sector? And the income, these reliefs that we are proposing, a general raise of 7,000, are for everyone; and if we could make use of them, we would in some way go very well through negotiations with the public sector, because wages are increasing for all, and we could very easily come through a minimum wage. It's a minimum wage issue. But you chose the path, you have the majority, you have the absolute power. I hope you are aware that you also have absolute responsibility. The modern centre's client also repeats the government's calculation, almost reading the government's position, but it has no own solutions. We are Members of Parliament to propose solutions. They may be foolish, may be useless, but they are rejected; but by their own judgment and conscience, not by the government’s instructions. I don't want you to be colleagues and colleagues from government parties just an extension of the government. You're too valuable for the government to raise your hands. You're too valuable. The left one's talking about Ginny's coefficient. Of course, it's a stop. That's what we're talking about. The Gini coefficient has been very egalitarian for several years. We're very squeezed into one belt. That's what he says. I wouldn't mind if we were egalitarian in prosperity when we're all rich. We're egalitarian in poverty. This is a problem because we do not allow those who have some potential to do so, who have good entrepreneurial ideas to implement them, they need to be put to bed. You're saying we need income for health care, education. Of course it's true, but I have a feeling that it's almost forbidden to talk and write about it, on the understanding that we haven't in the last few years, three, four, drastically reduced our income, not at all, that we haven't even reduced our health care contributions at all; but when I go to the pharmacy with prescriptions, I have to pay more and more drugs all the time. What happens to this great accessibility as you defend it? What happens to such or other emergency medical services? I'm moving from Prekmurje, where it hits us the most. The rule changes because it doesn't go through the National Assembly, and people get hit; and here we don't talk about it at all. And most hit those peripherals, us in the far northeast of Slovenia, Pomurje, Prekmurje, Koroška. We don't have Valdoltra, we don't have UKC Ljubljana, so we're not the same. What kind of accessibility, please. Let's stop. Let's delete that word because it's a flossule. None of the government's customers expressed concern about the eviction of Slovenian families. Of course, we are in the European Union, free movement of people, we have decided at the referendum that we will be members of the European Union, with all these freedoms given by the European Union, which we absolutely support; but we would always like the free movement of people to come to us from Switzerland also means good, educated people, decent people from Germany, from Austria to us, from Switzerland to us. No, it's weird. Why? Why do our families go to neighboring Austria? See what offers for construction plots for family houses Jennersdorf offers, but I know that no one listens to me because Prekmurje or the extreme northeast of Slovenia is so far away. And of course, you can't see from Gregorčičev until there and no one's dealing with it. New Slovenia is proposing a law that will at least ease this matter a little bit, for anyone can find a million reasons to break up a solution. I was also afraid that I would be torn apart when Director Durs Simic and I were in Apache, if you remember, the Apache Civil Initiative was once. 700 migrant workers were there, yelling very loudly at me and now the late Dr. Bayuk because they felt that our government had adopted the Income Act, which had the principle of global income. This has already been accepted by the government of Rob; otherwise, we would not be able to enter the European Union on 1 May 2004. But people don't know when someone took something. Today and then the government is being attacked. I barely got my whole skin out of there. Since then, we have changed something, made it easier, and then the Constitutional Court has thrown it away and so forth; nothing has happened since then. I guess we all know why we talk so much about Austria. Because there, at the annual level, your income of EUR 11,000 is non-taxable, the rate of zero. And it must also be said that migrant workers are not double-taxed. They pay a difference in income. We know that. Sometimes this worker comes to me in the parliamentary group, of course he is emotionally hurt, the country has not given him a job and he goes with his belly for bread, and now this country has come to say, "Hey, 3 000 600, 4 000, 5,000 euros you will pay extra or double. No, it's not double. We know what time it is here. In fact, Desus expressed concern that the reduced income would actually affect the financial situation in the municipalities. I agree. On the other hand, we have a government where it has incorporated the entire previous government and there is nothing happening in the area of one key issue, a key tax for local communities, which is a property tax. And I am not exactly sure that it will be adopted in this mandate, because it is a key source of local communities everywhere in Europe. As soon as you say that this will be a problem for the congregations, we return that, of course, it will be a problem; but the problem is also because we do not have a property tax. So much for now, colleagues and colleagues. In the meantime, I'm gonna have to see the President of the Republic in about half an hour. I hope you won't criticize me for that. I thank you in advance for your constructive debate in terms of finding common, good solutions for our citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr President, this has allowed Mrs Iva Dimic to take the floor. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Colleagues and colleagues! When I listened to the position of the government representative, the secretary of state, I said that the Government does not support the bill, I asked the very question when the government in Slovenia will be formed, when the ministry and all ministries working for citizens and citizens will be established in Slovenia. Of course, the easiest thing to do before you go into numbers is to look for some options — the government or the ministry does not support the proposal. And this is how the matter is resolved to signal all members of the coalition, how they have to vote, and it is about putting it in the drawer, until we say again in New Slovenia that something has to be done for people, because we all wanted it. And that is why we have all run for Members to change the world or Slovenia for the better, to create conditions for people to live better or to survive. We have been talking about raising general relief to 7,000 in this National Assembly for so long that, however, at the Ministry, we can prepare some more concrete calculations or other calculations on the basis of which we would say - Look, we see a tax policy in this direction. Why am I saying that? Because they are. It is true, and the ministers of state change every four years, but all the other people in the ministry, who should follow all the changes and wishes to change to the welfare of all citizens and citizens, should be preparing this at that time. That's how it's done in the economy. The chairman of the board is changing, but the oven downstairs still bakes the same bread and can make it, no matter who runs it. And so it seems to me that the work of all employees at the Ministry of Finance would also be responsible if we wanted to help people in this country. To raise the threshold of relief from EUR 3 000 302 to EUR 7 000, I think it is very important to say that there is also a huge number of pensioners who, from 400 euros per month, also have to pay their taxes, even if this pension is lower than the minimum that we have prescribed, that is EUR 500. It seems to me that this proposal of our law on raising general relief really helps everyone – those who work for a minimum wage, those who receive minimum pensions in this country, and those who may have sought work abroad as migrant workers, who then have to pay that difference so high. It would be nice to be able to say – our country is a shining example. Government Members like to say – we are a bright example, we are the first in which areas. Let us be first in the newly connected countries and countries in the accession process, which could enable people to live normal lives. Why am I saying this? One year ago, I attended an international seminar on EZA workers within the European People's Party. There is a tendency already so strong, including Portuguese colleagues, Croatian colleagues, Romanian, Bulgarian, Austrian, yet the European Commission and the European Union do something about such disproportionately different taxation in different companies. I know that we drive the policy on our own and on our own in the area of taxes, but we cannot have such a different tax burden on countries. I represent some normal burden-sharing to everyone, and also, as far as taxes are concerned, some normal degree of relief. 3 000 300 general tax relief is only a good year, before it was even lower, I think it was EUR 3 000 30. What a good year ago we adopted the Labour Committee to raise this general relief. But it's not moral for a country to tax what's necessary for survival. The risk of poverty of €630 per month is essential for survival. This amounts to about €7 000 560 per year if I take maybe some euro less; and we want to tax it all. On the other hand, we are talking about how to take care of those with the lowest income, those who cannot survive on their own; on the other hand, a threshold that gives the possibility of survival, I agree, that is too low, and we will tax it. And once again, when will a government in Slovenia work for people and seek solutions so that people can survive and live normally?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u27	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your words. Mr. Ferenc Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. A nice greeting to you all, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! I understand today's debate in some way by agreeing on one point or all of you agree that you have expressed your opinion that certain changes should be made in this area. I understand the New Slovenia proposal in this direction, with good goals and purposes that we can agree on or disagree with. Of course, I also agree that it is always necessary to have the stability of public finances before the eyes of the public, but I personally think that these calculations and the figures we have heard today represent only one side of the medal. I'm sure there's another side of the medal, and I don't think these calculations or those numbers would be as rough as they might sound today if we took a look at the other side of the medal. I also agree with the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc. If I recall correctly, they said they were advocates of systemic solutions. And I will be happy if these systemic solutions, as I understand it, occur next year because I think that tax restructuring is necessary. But if this restructuring is to take place, it is certainly necessary to make a novelty in this area – not to introduce a new tax, but to change the structure of taxes so that part of the revenue generated remains where this income is generated. Since we, who are some post-industrial cities, have certain productions there, let's say in Lendava we have quite a few larger companies that generate income there, profit, but profit goes all the way to Ljubljana. And if we want to change or reduce the difference between the developed parts and the underdeveloped parts of Slovenia, then I think this is a very important step, then more resources will remain in the regions, in the municipalities and so on. I think that this is a very important fact in restructuring this issue, which we must certainly take into account. I agree with that part of the New Slovenia proposal that the overall relief should be increased. I think that's right, because actually a lot of people live in very difficult circumstances. And I think if they were left with these funds, then they would really be useful, for the basic needs that they may be lacking now, I know for many cases that they are missing. I do not think that the country would be as disadvantaged from this point of view as it may have been today. However, I do not agree with that part that the income scale should be reduced from 50% to 43%. I would have suggested here that this should remain and that a new scale should be introduced precisely because I believe that the current system has somehow reduced the medium layer, especially public servants who actually earn between thousands and 500 euros a month and fall into the same class as those who earn 10, 20 and more 10,000 euros. I think that a correction should be made here, and then the fallout would probably be smaller than this current calculation; and I think it would certainly be much more fair. I will personally support this proposal because I think it is a better proposal than the current legislation. But I'd like to make one more point. Of course, I respect the Constitutional Court's decision. I believe they've made the right decision. However, when I listen to people, it is the day-to-day migrants who are complaining to me, who are constantly raising this issue, and it is probably necessary to look at the other side of the medal and find a solution that will, at least after their assessment, more fairly regulate their status. At the end of the day, I would certainly ask coalition parties if there would actually be a restructuring of tax legislation to take into account the facts that I have listed and to make this restructuring by reducing the difference and the gap between the developed and the undeveloped parts. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. For Mrs Ludmila Novak, Mr Jože Lenart will have the floor. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u30	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! There are problems, we have now found out practically everyone. What makes Nova Slovenija so much the same law? Because problems aren't solved. And since the majority of the parties to the previous government are also in this government, there is no excuse or even the criticism of New Slovenia is justified when you tell us why we are making the same law so many times; you have already said that you will not accept it. Because we want you to do something. We're trying our best, without the apparatus that the ministries have for themselves, to find solutions. And solutions that are as simple and normal as they are. And this raise in general tax relief from EUR 3 000 300 to EUR 7 000 is such a move that is simple and is equal to all people in Slovenia. We can't just exempt the day-to-day migrants and give them relief. Then what will those who live and work in Slovenia say? Are we not entitled to this?Oh, my God! Therefore, it is necessary to seek a single solution for all and to mitigate this difference between 11,000 and 3 thousand 300 so that these migrant workers do not pay so much tax. That's all this is about. And we've been listening to these excuses about systemic solutions and integrated solutions for years. Even in the area of laws that we have recently proposed, we listen to the same things and things do not move. Sadly, some want to take as many people as possible to share in their own mercy and will. I recently went to a public office, and I couldn't believe that things like this could happen. This is what I am saying for those of you who stress how everything is public, stately most important and must be suppressed by all private initiative and all those who want to work and create. Some public service works well, only 10% of the revenue gets from the country, 90% creates on the market. But since it's a public institution, it can't pay its employees better because we have this system of public wages. He can't. And there comes an inspection, and even if he wants to reward the workers, he has to take it away because he's not justified because he's a public institution, even though he's got a profit, even though he's doing a good job, although 90% of the income is generated on the market. You can't believe that. And someone who sells a million Euros of stuff in trade has to work for 800 Euros to be responsible for things. Things are wrongly set up, and that's why we have so many problems. And social work centres have to solve all the roles instead of increasing this tax relief and many things in themselves will be resolved. They would get more a month and all of this would be taken into account in incomes, scholarships and so on. But we want to complicate things, take people away so we can share what we deserve. That's why it's been a long time and a lot of money. And we need to be aware of how many people move out of Slovenia every year. I think the number is about 8,000, and we already have 10,000 births a year too small to live as a nation normally, work, develop, provide pensions and so on. And who's moving out? Mostly young people who make a family elsewhere are going to go somewhere else to school, work somewhere else, and so on. Here those daily migrants are the greatest potential to go, to stay on the other side of the border, where they will have higher tax reliefs, where they will be easier to reach a parcel or children's allowances. That's probably not what we want. This measure, which we propose, could reduce these things and soften them. Surely people, if they have more money, can spend more; and we get it back with income. The municipalities, of course, are deprived of the municipalities because the state has not provided them with funds under the law for all these years — a good EUR 600. Now they get 572; the great achievement of the President of the Government, who signed the agreement with the municipalities, and at the same time we will raise wages in the public sector, where all institutions and municipalities will have to pay higher wages. Then what did we do again?Oh, my God! There are some anomalies that we do not know by appropriate measures to solve. I hope we understand where the problem that we are pointing out is, and we want to solve it with our proposal for a law. If there is an excuse now – we will prepare it better, systemically; just tell us when. How long do you need — a month, two, three, six months, one year, four years — to listen to the same things in the next term? Tell me when?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Member Jože Lenart has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, chairman. Paying taxes brings independence for every country, we can probably all agree here. In recent days we have considered quite a number of proposals by the opposition to reduce taxes on various aspects. And if we accepted all of this, I cannot imagine the sustainability of the budget, whether it could have been adopted at all; and that is why we do not confirm such proposals. It is clear that tax revenues have many advantages. Taxes are a more reliable and predictable source of funding than aid and loans. This predictability is of great importance to the Government, which seeks to provide basic services such as health care or education. Taxes help governments to behave more responsibly towards their citizens. Higher than the tax revenues of a government, the more its citizens tend to pay attention to how they are used. Increasing tax revenues therefore helps to improve the governance of the country and promotes greater democraticism of the political system. I'd like to make one case of this responsibility here. My colleague explained to me years ago, he has a daughter in Denmark, there are very high taxes, the country is very strong and very helpful. He explained well to me — the daughter and the partner must give a lot of money from their salary, but when the child was born, they received a package of help, along with a wheelchair. This chair was used to take the child to kindergarten, to take the basket, to kindergarten, and to sleep there. And when they came for him, they took him away like that. How much savings can be made with these taxes collected if this is done rationally. In this House, I have also repeatedly warned that we lack rational approaches in various areas, but also in information systems, because I am convinced that we have too many employees because of the irrationality of such approaches. Tax systems determine how wealth is distributed between rich and poor. In progressive tax systems, rich people pay more and poorer taxes, so taxes are an important tool to address economic and social inequalities in each country and around the world. As a result of the tax evasion of multinationals and the escape into other environments, this has been mentioned several times on your part, dear colleagues and colleagues, and I would not boast about it. All I'd say is that this is about patriotism, about respect for my own country. And sometimes we forget that. And with things like this running away because taxes are higher, because we want independence and higher quality of life, I wouldn't agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Horvat has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, dear colleague Jože Lenart, for your discussion. In most cases, of course, I agree. Just because of our patriotism, we find it extremely difficult for people to go out. But that's what we need to talk about. We don't brag about it. These are the problems that must primarily be solved here. It's an excellent case with regard to Denmark. Great. I'm so grateful you opened it. Perhaps it would be good for citizens and citizens who listen to us to add this. I've been talking to a colleague from Denmark, too. He says: “Yes, our taxes are high, I pay a lot of money. But I have a free kindergarten and I have a free primary school." My colleague Iva Dimic has a daughter in fifth and second grade. At the beginning of the school she paid 500 euros only for textbooks, work volumes. 500 euros. So much for this and the mouthful, how high school is available to all of us. Figo's available! The one who doesn't have 500 euros can't just give. He can't. He can't. And for what it's worth, let's ask the parents, not the politicians. Let's ask our parents how much a primary school costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word has been given by Ambassador Miha Kordish. He'll get the word Alexander Reberšek after him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, chairman. The basic school for EUR 500 of indirect costs is still much more accessible than the primary school for EUR 5,000. This says, however, that the entire school's vertical, not just primary school, should be done completely and completely free of charge. Let's face it, a lot of these 500-euro working families for the kid they send to school are very hard to crack together, or maybe they don't even crack. But that's not why I signed up for the debate. The point is next. You may have noticed how every time we have a proposal on the legislative table to reduce the taxation of the rich, solid numbers are down here. And instead of a serious argument – regardless of who the applicant is, whether the applicant is a solid right, or whether the applicant is a government, it has nothing to do with – instead of a solid argument, the neoliberal ticle-down economy rate. If we give more money to the rich, then, one of the charms will later be better for everyone, better for everyone, and the winner of this process should be – watch out for this paradox – the working class. This photonic at this particular meeting is complemented by the following tax bases and narratives with mythological beings, such as Ralph Schumacher, public sector negotiations, various signals. We even had the case of a debater who came for a payphone explaining that going in the direction of the tax haven and letting the rich have more money, while still maintaining a high level of poverty, meant an ethical and moral decision. Can you imagine that?Oh, my God! The hard facts, the numbers, the accounts, the specifics of this call for free-market economies and the tax burdens of the rich do not confirm it, but these are every time they proposers, in this particular case they are Christian Democrats, not in any way a mistake. And the introductory first truth is this: The proposal to abolish the highest tax grade, or this whole tax kit that we have on the table, represents more than half a billion budget cuts from income. Half a billion missing in the social state. Half a billion. This should be translated into higher consumption after that free-market magic potion mentioned in the introduction, and this higher consumption should lead to more indirect taxes, which should fill the gap that arises in the budget or in the social state. The only problem with this statement, and this logic, is that this hole is heavy half a billion euros and the revenue from increased consumption would be 20.30 million euros. This is not even the same fiscal discipline, let alone the same fiscal sport. We really can't use this argument as an argument. If we want to increase public finances, we will not do so through a bizarre plant to reduce taxes for the rich, but on the contrary, we must raise capital taxes and raise taxes for the rich. Only in this way will the welfare of the working majority in this country be increased, only in this way will we move towards a society of the same, in the direction of a just society. The next argument that advocates of lowering taxes for rich people are concerned is that this should lead to the creation of new jobs. For starters, already textbookly, doctrinally, if you want, it is said that reducing taxes on economic growth and employment affects only short-term. The effect is hypnotic, it's known at that moment, and then it's lost. The difference is, however, that we are inferior to a single spiral of prosperity and social justice. The last time we had the same New Slovenia law on the table, I said the following, and I will do it again. The study, published by Banka Slovenije in 2013, will quote the main point: “Once changes in national consumption and taxes in Slovenia are expected to have a short-term effect and cannot be used to accelerate longer-term economic activity.” So he's also going to get down on the job argument. At the same time, the issue of social justice and developmental perseverance is at stake. Reducing the highest income class from 50% to 43% means something diametrically opposite to social development and social justice, regardless of how tax cutting lawyers show it. I will give you the case of Belgium, where the highest income rate is higher than for us, it is set at 54% and covers income over the poor 40 000 euros. For us, the highest income rate applies to incomes of more than €70,000, almost once more this is a broader base. And that is logic, which is rather an exception to every approximately development-oriented country. Be careful, we are not talking here about fundamental conceptual differences in capitalism, socialism or anything like that. No, we are talking within the framework of capitalism, where we can go along the path of a global subcontractor, a destitute state, a diversified public sector; we can go along the path of a developmental peak. The tax reduction strategy has been collected by countries that have also begun to be subject to the free market doctrine with the same arguments as those cited by Slovenian tax cut lawyers. Romania, for example, the third lowest rate of income in the European Union, 16% – the highest rate. The absolute recorder is Bulgaria, 10% – the highest income class. What's the Bulgarian picture? 7 million people at home, 2 million people who fled the country. These percentages and these figures are even more dramatic than the migration we are witnessing in Slovenia. It's not the rich countries that are lowering the highest income classes. This is what poor countries do with the idea and ideology to be rich once, and of course the situation is the other way around. It's a spiral down, it's a spiral to the bottom. If this spiral of social, technological and other developments is to be turned upwards, we must go towards greater tax justice, i.e. additional taxation of capital and additional taxation of the rich. But the proponents are trying to show this profoundly unfair proposal for additional tax relief as something that is to the extent of the working class. As I said in the beginning, of course, that's not true. Even with this rise in general relief and thus to the working classes, these tax changes would be known for the two-digit number per year on salary, and the rich would be known for a four-digit number annually. The difference is in a half-billion-dollar hole in the budget, a half-billion-billion-dollar hole in public finances, or in practice, there the working class has bankrupt hospitals available, and the rich are even easier to afford a private doctor. We propose in Levica – a single relief yes, a relief, if any, of the first and second income classes. Where to make a difference where to raise revenue, however, is, of course, an additional taxation of the rich, including a broader basis for taxation of the rich. This is a policy for a fairer society, it is a policy to raise wages without shortening the social state. The rich are rich enough. The rich are rich in truth. The task of the State is to reach out to its redistributive mechanisms and these social inequalities to settle them; to take them where they are; and to take them where they are not – from rich and capital to the working class. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Horvat has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Surely there is no debate about who is rich and the definition of rich; how much pay you actually have to get at the annual level so that you are rich. We look a little differently, we see that practically in Slovenia you are very heavily rich with the salary of the President of the Government, the President of the Republic and so on. You can't be! Presidents of administrations too; yes, some have high salaries because they deserve because they have contracts, but they wouldn't do that. But if we look at our neighborhood now, when we sometimes like to look back so little on the countries we used to live with, let us look at the income. Slovenia, we all know the answer, from 10 to 50%, multiple scales, pardon me from 16 to 50. Bosnia and Herzegovina 10% for all and Montenegro 9% for the 11% class; Croatia 24 and 36; Serbia 10 and 25. No one has 50, but okay. These are the numbers. There's something else I can say very frankly here, as always. Of course, we also learn from tax experts, those who know something about taxes. I'm sure there's a mag in the National Assembly. Andrej Shircelj is the one who is the most competent one who can talk between us Members and Members about taxes. We listen to other, external advisers, experts and so on; also one that has worked in Serbia for 11 months in the tax area and has earned a prize or the name of a reformer of the year. That's what we've been listening to.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Reberšek has the floor, followed by Ambassador Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! We have before us a proposal for a law proposed by Nova Slovenije and this proposal is lower than taxes and higher wages. We all know and realize this, some even and especially in the words that work is too taxed. If we come from this, it means that there are fewer investors, there are fewer employers, there are fewer investors, there are fewer jobs, and not least, we have smaller salaries. Who actually wants that? Are we not all here to do good for all our citizens? The New Slovenia bill, which is ahead of us and envisions an increase in general income relief from 3 000 302.70 euros to 7 000 euros, is a solution for all those people who have worse wages in our country. The average wage in Slovenia is €73 000 net and if supported by this proposal of New Slovenia, the average Slovenian net salary will be higher than €83. All your excuses in the sense that such a change would result in about 500 million budget cuts or where they would take this money, you ask. Shall I tell you where? Stop the theft of taxpayers' money, tendering is a legal theft area, TES 6 is a missed investment, and overpaid for more than half a billion, a criminal investigation finds. And that money would be spent on the salaries of our employees. Overpaid medical material, overpaid highways, numbering offices and agencies – there is a lot of money and reserves to be allocated to our employees for higher wages. I listen to you all the time that we have high economic growth. All well and well — who is responsible for this? Why don't we ever reward people, workers, why are we just words? When will we proceed from the words we have spoken before the elections to the actions after the elections? You know, for once in this country, it would be time for her taxpayers too!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Member Gregor Perič has the floor, followed by Željko Cigler.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Good-bye! As we have heard many times today, we have a proposal to amend the Income Act on the table. We have dealt with this law or this area several times in the last period by the same or related proposer, and the proposals are more or less very similar. So let me say, in the SMC we somehow regret that Nova Slovenija has not decided and joined the government. If I came back a month or two or three ago, it seemed very serious, and even conversations ran virtually to the last minute, and you decided, for some reason known to you, that you would not participate in this government. As it is said in the SMC, we regret that we believe that we would find many common points with you, especially in the field of the economy, we would talk more easily about the aspect of competitiveness and even more about many other things, but in the end you decided as you did, and your role is different, as well as the political situation or reality in Slovenia at this point is slightly different than it could have been if you were partners in this government. If I touch on the proposal for amendments to the Income Act, I could congregate some syntagm or mini-maximum income reform, pass by the number of articles that are changing, and max by the effect it has on public finances. For, as we have heard many times today, the effects that are measured in hundreds of millions are almost EUR 600 million per year less than the country's revenues. We have heard many arguments that Slovenia today is witnessing an economic situation that is certainly easier to afford than four, five, six years ago, when the crisis was the strongest and it had the most impact on VAT and everything else. However, we need to be aware of something that we are living in some kind of economic system where the crisis is soon to come again. Once these revenues are reduced again, especially from VAT, we will have a major problem, which then, in practice, as many of them prove, we say some social war on the ground. Many will be dissatisfied, and no government will want to be left, right, middle, such and different colors, then some social transfers, some acquisitions, some rights to cut, or if it does, it will certainly not go without the consequences of political and other things. We talked a lot about changing the general tax relief, that is, raising it from EUR 3 000 300 to EUR 7 000, and if the data I found online on the Internet now holds, for 2007, this general tax relief was EUR 2 000 800, for 2008, EUR 2 000 900. So this argument, which you somehow used or used by two opposition parties, makes sense, but I seriously wonder why when you were in the government – and I purposely took 2008 into consideration because there was an opportunity to prepare for this reform to take place for four years. Then why didn't you do it and put it into practice? Taking into account 2011 – 3 000 140, 2012 – 3 000 200 Euros of general tax relief. It sounds nice and nice to suggest something like that, but we need to know that if there's half a billion in the budget, then we have to replace these half a billion somewhere. So the proposal or challenge that we are discussing today is present, and the solutions you are offering us, and they are solving just one small part of this challenge, the simpler part. That large part of the challenge, however, is the question of how to replace this gap, particularly in that area, and we have already said this several times today, in the area of capital income, namely taxation of these revenues. I therefore assess that this proposal is very unbalanced and would have very negative effects on the functioning of our country and, unfortunately, I cannot support it as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u43	Thank you very much. There have been some subsequent changes, but before I give the floor to the next debater, I would politely warn the Government that it has declared half an hour and that it can at any time be included in the debate and also comment, namely initiatives, proposals, solutions, one or the other party's arguments. So much for a warning. Now, as it is said, Member Robert Pavšič has the following word and will be given the word Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u44	Thank you, President, for your word. Today I feel a sincere desire for this, by the proposer, to make people feel really better. But I think the method is wrong. It's the same as trusting the baker to fix our car; maybe it will work, maybe it won't. Why? Poverty is not only a tax issue, it is systemic and covers both the country and the economy as a whole. And what do we observe in the last period of the conjuncture? That the labour market or employers do not respond in the wage policy to the current situation. The OECD already points out that wages for productivity are lagging behind. The result is a change in the division ratio between capital and work, mainly at the expense of capital, i.e. capital is getting richer and work is getting less and less valued. Are they the poorest in this situation due to tax policy? Are they because of one wider economic system? Do we want to create competitiveness in our society or country at the expense of creating some social dumping and only exacerbating matters or do we want to create additional value? The cost of work per hour in this year in the European Union was 25.4 euros in Slovenia, 16.9 euros in 2008, 13.4 euros; therefore, in 10 years, the cost of work per hour in the economic sector, i.e. in the real sector, increased by only 3.5 euros per hour. Gross salary, which is the recipient of the employer – and we must never forget that – is the gross remuneration of the worker, was taxed at 22,1 %. The gross contribution, which is the cost of the employer and 16,1 %, totals 38,2 %. In Austria, for example, this data is slightly different; 18.2 % is contributed by the worker and 21.7% by the employer, together 38.9%. The original sin for this, I believe, began in 1996, when the employer’s contribution fell by 6.65% points, when the tax on paid wages was abolished and that difference was then made. If this tax had been abolished today, it would probably not have been discussed in the proposal for this law or in the changes in the income scale. This, of course, has consequences for the imbalances. On the one hand, they have accounting creativity or creativity, which can be very effective in this country to avoid taxes and result in a very low effective tax rate for companies below 12 percent. Slovenia is, as far as capital is concerned, a tax haven and must be defended by capital. It is perfectly legitimate; everyone has the right to demand what belongs to him and to maintain a good standing and there is nothing wrong with me. But it is the responsibility of the National Assembly to think in a balanced way about the economy as well as about each individual. We have heard several times already today that more revenue is planned in the future and that such moves as are proposed today can be afforded. I'd love to support her, believe me, really, but I'm afraid of the consequences. Because if we count on revenue in the future, something fast can be replayed in 2007 and in 2008. At that time, at the expense of the expected conjuncture, a huge balloon of expectations was created that was seized by financial speculators and created a crisis that was or is still echoing around the world. A comprehensive reform is needed to address this area in a responsible manner. This government in the current system is only here for two months, 60 days, and it seems a little unfair to me not to use any harsher words to now strike at people who have barely performed their function — when, when, when? If we take it for analogy, the real estate law has already set a deadline. It is intended to enter into force 1. 1. 2020; so we have one year or so, and then we will put the cards on the table and show the results. If they're not there, of course we'll take responsibility. Recently, there has been some truth on social networks – a bit of a joke, but in every joke there are some truths – method 40 : 40: 40. For 40 years we work, 40 hours a week, and at the end of these two periods, we have to live with 40% of what would be enough for some normal survival. We have to do this in an integrated way so that we don't put this 40 years into nothing. The OECD also says that the taxation of wages in Slovenia is somewhere within the European Union average, and only relations are the problem. I'm new here, that's what I hear every time, and we're new, and we're probably a little naive, and we're trying to look at some things a little differently than you, established politicians. Of course I have deep respect for you, all of it, but I can't really support it. Although I would like heartily to really live in such a system and have the resources to enable everyone to live a more decent life, but only through partial measures, without any systemic approach here will not work. So, we need tax, labour, social, I don't know what kind of reform or restructuring yet. If it's a restructuring, it's reforming everything. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u45	Thank you so much for saying that! Member Vojko Starović has the floor, and it will be mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that! Your Honor! Again we have one at least like proposal before us – I look at it a little bit – a kind proposal that is nice to people, definitely. Such like suggestions are now being made in these 60 days to use the words of my predecessor, which they repeat. We continue to have some extraordinary committees, some extraordinary sessions, and we keep repeating ourselves and talking on the screen, telling people, telling each other how good it would be if we increased this relief to 7,000, forgetting that we are running out of 600 million from the budget. It's nice to say it like that, but let's say it again, we're even a little bit joking with this country – we're joking, a little harsh word, I'm sorry – but we can't do that. It is necessary to assume responsibility for one party and the other as to how much it will flow into the budget and how much we can afford to drain out of the budget and to act at any time, whatever we take to try to keep this system robust to work. If with such partial solutions, this has been said many times in all the debates so far that these partial solutions bring about the inconsistency of the system, which even then, they say, masters of information technology do not master and run away from us. I would also like to ask you in the debate, I am greatly disturbed, by the government we have received information that the average tax collection is that this average is 38.9 and in Slovenia 36.6. So, on average, we have a tax burden on Eurostat. So, according to Eurostat, even according to Slovenian statistics, these are things that are supposed to be reconciled, balanced and collect the same data. Then we say, in Serbia it is, we say in the Czech Republic it is, and we draw the OECD and we draw some statistics from some private associations that give some results, and they show us some picture that we can't even talk about. He also added: and to talk about some economic freedom in recent times, this economic freedom by my NSI friends has repeatedly been stressed, but economic freedom – we must not forget what economic freedom is and who measures it. [[…]] Economic freedom. We all imagine that, in our own household, we are among the people that we are provided so that nothing can happen to us. Economic freedom means only the freedom to adopt and to tax you as little as possible in this respect as possible, what you are adopting, what you are taking, it is economic freedom and we are relatively low on this scale, because, under Article 2 of the Constitution, we are a social state and we are automatically reduced. But when we talk about the social state, let us not forget that the sector that is not on the market – that is, non-market sectors – is also economics. In Europe, it is this standard, when they stress that they support – my colleague Tonin – that the social market model is known to be more worth doing things in a non-market way to make it cheaper. And we also need these systems that are more robust to be planned and regulated in the long run – whether it be from the health system, the road system or any other, if placed on the market, two motorways would be building a competitive one. Don't forget that. And that the non-market sector also contributes significantly to the social product, i.e. to the added value. The non-market sector is important in this, and in some more developed countries this sector has contributed more. If we look at what we are taxing and what we are compared to Europe, we would say that our non-market sector is more competitive than the average of Europe. In contrast to other claims, I put this claim and this view, while in the market area, the productivity of the market area is 85% of the European average. We also have to look for reserves here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u47	Thank you very much. There's a MEP with a word. Matthew Tonin. Let's get the mags ready. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u48	Several times today, I am listening to opposition parties constantly repeating certain solutions, introducing laws, convening extraordinary board meetings and so on. That's why we're here! That's why we're here to work to come up with solutions to come up with concrete proposals! Of course, it is at this very point that there is a significant difference between emerging customers without content and customers, who have a tradition that we have been represented in Parliament for a long period of time. Of course, this period also meant that in the past we had already done something, already written some laws, dealt with some problems and problems — and that is why we come up with solutions immediately at the beginning of the mandate. While, of course, emerging customers need time to look for personnel first, then content comes. Therefore, to explain why there are so many meetings by the opposition at the beginning of the term of office. The next important page I think is -- look, I'm telling you again. Politics will continue to lose its reputation if it does not adhere to what it says in the pre-election period. Virtually all the presidents - and the President - of the political parties represented in this House spoke before the elections, we all spoke together to raise wages in a way that reduces the burden on income or that you take less from the incoming country. When we come up with a concrete proposal, there's always a thousand reasons why this can't be accepted: it's not systemic, it's not systemic, it's not that -- there's always one permanent reason. Although this solution we are proposing is simple, it is a systemic, general income relief that we raise to all, not only to employees in the public sector, net wages. And we're talking about specific amounts.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u49	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. Replica, Mr. Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u51	Just so I'm not misunderstood – I recognize this right, this investment. It's okay. I'm the only one who's been talking about these hundreds of days, which is somewhere when the government is allowed to prepare things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u52	Thank you very much. We've reached the last discusser. There's a MEP with a word. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice President, representatives, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The basic measure supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party is to increase the general tax relief to the level of living costs. This, of course, means that the part of the money that is urgently needed for life will not be taxed with income. I think there is no reason why this would not be so – not ethical, not moral, not financial, not any other. Given that the Government rejects this solution, I am interested in the reasons that Mrs Natalija Kovač Jereb, State Secretary, should say that she opposes this. Here I think, of course, given that public financial revenues increased by one billion in 2017 compared to 2016 and that they also increased in 2018 – here I would like to ask if the State Secretary can tell us the latest data on how much these revenues increased monthly according to 2017 in 2018. This is a summary of January, last data October, for example, November 2018 according to 2017. And then data 2017, 2016 all the public financial data by statistics, one billion more, and here we have if you take this package as it is, I think you've calculated 560 million. This increased government revenue covers the possible loss of income. From this point of view, I am interested in what other non-financial reasons are there for this government not to take this measure – this measure, which is in accordance with Article 2 of the Constitution, is that the State is a social state. Here, please, Madam Secretary of State, if you can focus not on the number, but on the content of the social state. To the content, what the social state means and what it means in the tax system, that those incomes that are essential for life are taxed. Taxed here and now. Now, if you say that they were also taxed in 2008, I will also be able to answer you why; but here and now: Why are you taxing the incomes that are urgently needed for people's lives? This is, of course, one question that I think is general, that this government, which is made up of this coalition, and on this basis, also your opinions by all the other coalition parties have somehow wanted to emphasise why they do not support this solution after raising the general relief. We know there's 13,000 in Austria. There's not an accident of 13,000. There, too, they have the cost of living that is essential for people’s lives. In other words, this means €230 a day; all that is more than €230 is taxed by the state on today's income scale or income relief – €230 a month. The state says it's not because if it's 235, it's not necessary to live, but we can tax it first, which is what's left, and then it'll be from you. This is what we are talking about with regard to the State-Ministry of Finance-Government-national relations. That's why I'm asking if you can tell me the contents of this. Not only are the numbers like that, but I've already told you some of them, you tell me the last one, how much bigger it is for the entire public finances, for the VAT, for everyone. Second of all, I'm interested in what you say in your opinion. Speaking of increasing the individual’s income available through such a solution, I agree, which would, of course, mean that the State would not tax what is necessary for life while spending more on value added tax to a certain extent, “but with the purchase of goods with a lower tax rate (food, medicines)”. I quote. Are the poorer — say, you are talking about the poorer — using more for food and medicine in absolute amounts or relative terms? How is this allocation of value added tax mentioned here? What do people spend more? Which ones spend more? Do the rich spend more on food and medicines in absolute or relative amounts? How's that? If you claim this here, this would bring significantly less money to the value added tax. What about the other taxpayers? What about the others? In short, what is the allocation of value added tax to a lower and general level, what is the share of consumption in the lower and general rate of value added tax in relation to income classes? You have income classes, you have a general level, if, of course, what you're saying here actually holds. Another time. On the next page, you say that it is not possible to relieve wages unilaterally, simply by lowering tax burdens, but by restructuring the burden of public duties will have to be taken into account, carefully, on the basis of appropriate analyses. I want to know what that means. And in "which direction will you restructure the burden of public duties". I quote. Which way? What analyses have you done and what analyses have been done in the last four years, as the former Minister of Finance has also said. What do you have? What are you going to tax more? Capital? Will you tax your property more, as stated in the Coalition Treaty, to tax not only real estate, but property, images of individuals? Will you tax the silver furniture of individuals? The expensive furniture of individuals? Old furniture? Will you consider it a general asset and therefore also make a census of all the people who actually have the property or what information the tax administration needs to do so? This is what the Coalition Treaty says about this matter; in short, all assets. Will you make a general inventory of assets for all citizens and citizens? Because in the coalition contract, to remind you, it doesn't just say you're taxing real estate, it's also property. What kind of property is this now? I mean, once again - gold cutlery, silver cutlery, pictures in apartments? Please, if you can define a little, because you probably already have the analysis done and so on, because the government. You are further talking about horizontal justice in your opinion, you are also talking about vertical justice and social policy. Once again, how do you imagine the Income Act, which is a social tax that has a social component? How do you imagine this relief within this social policy? Will this relief mean that people will first be able to buy life’s necessities and services, only then will you tax them, or will you tax them first, just like now — and you do not defend it — but what will be left will they buy; now, if not enough, it will not be enough. That's their problem. And in your opinion, is this a social state in accordance with the second Article of the Constitution? I would, of course, want the government so much that what she wrote in her opinion would explain more precisely what she meant by all these words. I've asked the question solely on the basis of the government's opinion. Nothing else. The second question, which is, with respect to colleagues and colleagues, see, I am also ready to tell you what happened in 2008 and, of course, if anyone is interested, if anyone will benefit from it. In particular, if it will benefit citizens and citizens. We're 10 years later. And citizens and citizens also live 10 years later. Those who say that this will create a balloon and so on, as in 2008 – prevent it! You've got all the measures! But not with income, income has nothing to do with balloons, investment balloons, real estate balloons and so on. There's not much. It is not a general relief, for general relief is primarily a social instrument of income. General relief is not a tax of 50 per cent, general relief is supposed to be the same for all of us, for we are all basically the same. General relief means that the state should not tax any amount that is important to people’s lives — survival if you want. And this is calculated at EUR 7 000 600 in Slovenia. We didn't calculate it, the SDS didn't calculate it, that's what the statistical experts did, look. Rates, special allowances for children, special investment reliefs and so on. Look, this is all the questions we can talk about. We are now talking about the basis, the basis of the social system, in accordance with the second Article of the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen. Since we are in November, given that certain matters in the field of the tax system, those minimum ones that are possible can begin to perform, may take place, are established by 1. 1. In view of the fact that the proposer also said that they were open to new proposals and so on, I suggest that the coalition reconsider before voting on this proposal to accept it and to correct it in a second reading. It's not a fiscal reason that the state's gotten so much and so much more, that's what statistics say. This won't make the fiscal gold rule impossible, nothing will happen! There will be more competitiveness, a little less at the start of the money, but the fiscal rule will apply. I told you how much more the country got. I hope that the Secretary of State will tell you how much more she has earned, how much there is more income due to economic growth and so on. Look, you take the law, you fix it, the whole law can be fixed, you do something in the area of relief, social and so on, and you do something for citizens and citizens. That's why we're all elected here together. Of course, I will support this law already because it is possible to continue to be able to take measures that we will all agree with or most agree with, not least the Government, for the benefit of citizens and citizens, if we talk about it. No one is forcing you to take this as it is now; but if you reject this law, then you have rejected everything. This is where the government rejected it for the fourth time. Look at the same thing. Any government, will you say - a new government? No! No! Some of you are new, some are new customers, all the other customers are old. Take this offered hand and take advantage of it and you will also get the maximum for you, especially for citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. First of all, the representative of the Government, State Secretary Natalija Kovac Jereb, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u55	Thank you for the questions asked. I will certainly be able to respond to the part, to the part where we do not yet have the data, and then we will surely answer you in writing. As regards tax revenue October 2018 : October 2017, so we will compare. Thus, tax revenues increased by 3,7 %, income by 11,4 %, corporate income tax by 5,5 %, value added tax by 15,1 % and excise duty by 5,6 %. Thus, given that Slovenia has a commitment to reduce public debt, it must also meet the European Union's requirements to reduce it to 60% of GDP in accordance with the fiscal rule. It's about income. In Slovenia, the average pension is €600 and this part of the pension is not taxed. It is also not taxed part of the pension up to the amount of EUR 1000 200. About the income base. We also need to know that the basic income does not cover social transfer; it is said that children's allowances, social assistance, are excluded from the income base. Regarding tax restructuring, however, this is indeed a coalition contract commitment, written down and I think we will stick to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u56	The replica has a mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u57	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for those answers, which I'm sorry, you didn't answer what I asked. [[…]] The first issue was the integration of the social part of income, which is a general relief for the social state. I specifically asked you if you could define yourself to do so. You're the government's representative here, because of me, all the ministers can sit here and answer; they don't sit, they sent you here. This substantive question I would like to ask if you can actually tell your point of view of what you are going to defend, what you think about it. [[…]] Second. You said as a percentage, all taxes have increased, tax by 15%, income by 11% or 5%, income tax by 11%. How many million is that? You are talking about 560 million, and I am taking another billion from before – 2017, 2016 – and I am proving to you that this solution, which is proposed here and which we support, does not constitute a deterioration in the soundness of public finances. You only partially answered me when you listed those percentages. We can do that ourselves. If you have this information in absolute amounts, I'd like to ask you. Second of all, what are you gonna do? You mentioned a coalition agreement. I read it, but it says you'll tax your assets. I asked you, and now I ask you: Will you tax the images of individuals, or will you tax the gold and silver of individuals, or will you tax the golden utensils to an individual? It's people's property. That's what you're talking about in the coalition contracts. You speak in your opinion that you will develop this and so on you say this in your opinion, but you do not tell everything. [[…]] Tell me what you're taxing in a so-called tax restructuring. That's what I'd really ask. Please, Madam Secretary of State, if you can answer my initial question! Once again: How do you feel about the overall relief of human survival? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, you have 28 minutes. Can you answer that?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u59	Given what you've been asking me about the available income they're spending. It is said that the richest spend about 30 to 40 % of the available income in consumption. With regard to taxation of property; it is said that if we look at the Tax Procedure Act, we can only tax unexplained property of citizens. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u60	Thank you very much! All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Since I can see that interest is more, before we report it, we would like to warn you to log in by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. [[…]] If you would also like to discuss the proposed bill's representative, Joseph Horvat, and the representative of the Government, please also apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case, they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. And now we're starting the application procedure. Each debater shall have five minutes. He has the floor, first of all, Ambassador Franz Kramar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I have to say, when I heard the debate on one side or the other, that I have mixed feelings about what is right and what is wrong. The fact is that trespassing on income is not such a simple thing, but requires weighty and thoughtful moves that result in the final stage being reached with the best solutions. I will focus on the income from which the Slovenian municipalities draw a share. I think that should be said and that the action taken by the Government was, in fact, welcome by the President of the Government with the competent organisations of local communities on average. However, it still follows that the average for municipalities is under the legal provision, and the fact is that this is a kind of income management of the municipalities, that is, that part of the income, and sometimes it is called a financial settlement, today it is called an average, that is very important. If, of course, the income is reduced, then the already agreed average may result in a smaller inflow into municipal budgets and this may also make it partly difficult to carry out the tasks prescribed for the municipalities. I do not think that it is possible to compare people who have few resources to survive and those who pay income on higher levels or, I would say, on rich levels, because given that income is to be reduced in both segments, this means that in fact those who have more capital will be privileged, at the expense of those who, of course, do not have this capital or receive guaranteed personal income. Personally, I think it is right to think in this direction that citizens and citizens are burdened with tax obligations, but according to my assessment, reserves should be sought in other segments where these reserves would bring this desired will to all of us, that taxes or that inflows into the country's budget do not significantly decrease, but they are burdened by citizens and tax citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u63	I listen and watch the debate of coalition MPs and Members and symptomatically one thing is repeated all the time: when they discuss opposition proposals, they usually have fear of a severe budget failure, fear of it, fear of it, fear of it; fear of it itself. It is interesting that they are not consistent, that they do not apply the same fears to coalition proposals. Today's debate has shown that one of the fundamental problems is that more money will land in people's pockets. To raise the general income allowance simply means nothing more than to leave an average salary per month for a citizen in his pocket with 80 euros more. That's a big coalition problem. That was a big point today. But in this fact they have forgotten to say yet another important information, that is that in these last months a number of things have happened that have had or will have serious financial consequences in the future. These signed union deals are one thing. This conflict between two coalition parties regarding pensioners -– another matter. Third case, arrangement for a higher average with municipalities. It will not be a mistake and a perception that we now oppose this in Novi Slovenija. Everything's great and all right, and I don't have any problem with it for you to do it. It is right that you do this, but not to have double criteria that, if you suggest something, the expenditure from the state budget is allowed, but if the opposition proposes, it is fear and trembling, the collapse of the budget, non-compliance with the fiscal rule and so on. You say this despite the fact that it has been said several times today that in the past there have been much more budgetary inflows than a few years ago, this is one information, and that the implementation of this proposal would also mean more domestic consumption and more jobs, and thus more investment in the state budget. You're completely overlooking this part. Today, most of the coalition behaves as if some commitments were not made before the elections. There was always talk about how wages would be raised with a modified income. And even before the government took a serious bite and changed its income and thus allowed it to pay for a different income and in the public and private sectors up, even before that happened, an agreement was signed with the public sector, which would also have financial implications. That's what the coalition forgets. The second part of your fears and dangers is that if anything, then our proposal is absolutely consistent in terms of pension and health allowance. There was already a number of proposals in this hall to raise wages to reduce contributions, but in the end it always turned out that if we do, we will endanger the pension and health allowance, which are already unsustainable in the long run. This proposal has nothing to do with the pension and medical bills! The contributions will remain the same, gross salary, from which the contributions to the pension fund and to the health allowance will be charged – they will also remain the same as we propose. The point is that the state gives up only part of the income in order for citizens to have more. And another very important thing — demagogy. You know, it's hard to fight demagogies, especially those caused by the Left. When they talk about how they want to get the rich out and that they can get the poor out, they forget to say just one thing. That they are rich all those who have more than a minimum wage of five euros.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u64	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u65	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! I will not support the bill for one basic reason; the proposed law increases the gap between planned expenditure and revenue. We know that today's proposal alone reduces the budget's planned revenue by 600 million, the rest of which have already been put forward by some 100 million laws. In fact, this reminds me greatly of the situation when there was not enough money in the budget and the need to adopt the ZUJF. We don't need a new ZUJF. At the same time, I would like to look at migrant workers. I personally know the problem of these workers and I am very pleased that these workers have now become part of New Slovenia. So that they've approached your client so that we can move these things in a meaningful way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The last one to have a word. Master Andrej Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. After all this discussion, I'm scared. I'm afraid because this coalition is making its decisions on non-data and non-action. I'm afraid because the Secretary of State has given me data — to a relatively large extent — how much revenue has been raised. The coalition is afraid that this will cause the country to fall into financial collapse, but I am afraid that the coalition is actually not working and whether it will take decisions on unfair, misleading data or even on non-data! Because, on the one hand, the government says that this solution will lead to less sound public finances and, on the other hand, it says it has more revenue. Look, you're two opposing, actually, statements! On the third page, it does not provide any analysis of how public finances will be carried out, what will be the financial flow. The fact that Slovenia has a public debt, a respected secretary of state, will not significantly affect public debt. Public debt is swapped over interest and public debt has even increased from 28 billion to 30 billion in absolute terms. However, public debt declined in fact and decreased as a percentage of GDP. That doesn't make any sense. We have Balance A, Balance B and Balance C of the state budget. And one is balance A, that's expenditure. The second is Balance B, where we also have public debt. So it's not a direct relationship. Dear Secretary of State, you haven't really responded to anything. I don't know who wrote you that opinion. I don't know – I'm sorry – I hope you've read it. In addition to reading it here before the National Assembly, you may have understood it. I didn't get the answer to anything. I would ask that this also be recorded somewhere, that I have not received any reply from this government. This opinion is based on illusions, on empty words, because there is no content in the back. And it's not the right content. That opinion was copied, copy-paste. Three times, four times! Individual paragraphs. Nothing new. We've seen all this before. That's what I'm afraid of with this government. This scares me that there is no new quality, a new wind as to the problems that Slovenians and Slovenians face with regard to income, with regard to increasing poverty. Let me also mention that poverty is not the result of the Income Act, but that it taxes poverty. And even more so will this government, because it does not comply with this proposal. He's taxing poverty, that's the whole point. Everything else — today we are not talking about rates, even though they are in this law, I am talking about the essence. I don't want to live in a country where the country will take the money for itself first, and then see if the poor people will have enough to survive, to have bread and water and chicken if you want. In such a country, I do not want to live, and I will fight for tax legislation to improve on this segment so that such a relief is in place that poverty will not be taxed. Very simple. Of course, there are other laws, of course there are other solutions, in other areas, I agree, but this is one fundamental area. Don't tax poverty, this government! Don't tax poverty, this coalition! Left, don't tax poverty! You're all social, you're all left-wing parties, and I'm here on the right-hand side fighting for social measures! [[Laughing in the hall]] Yes, look, ladies and gentlemen, come on, do something for the people!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u68	Thank you very much for this debate. Let me just remember, I warned the government that there was enough time to discuss, and she also reported half an hour, unfortunately, the government did not take advantage of this opportunity. I do not want this to continue in the National Assembly from a meeting to a meeting, from a point to a point of view, because otherwise it makes no sense for us to have discussions in the National Assembly. This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 25th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the determination of the catastronomic income. The draft law was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. With regard to this bill, a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Tomaž Lisc.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u69	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. While the government six is searching for all ways and ways to survive these three or four years in power, we are working in the opposition because we have clear goals. One of them is a lower tax on cadastral income. That is why today we have before us an amendment to the Cadastrian Income Law, with which we would like to draw attention again to the problem in Slovenian agriculture in the SDS Group. The main objective of the proposed law is, therefore, to establish a fair and reasonable or, if you wish, at home, a moderate tax burden on Slovenian farmers, which is most easily achieved by reducing the cadastral income, which also affects the level of social security obligations and the extent of rights from public funds. So what is the key solution of our law – that the transitional provision created in 2016 in the so-called Law of the Jews, that the cadastral income and flat-rate assessment of the bee’s income is prescribed at 40% as a permanent provision. 40% and nothing more. In 2016, when the former government, which is very similar to this government, wrote the Cadastrian Income Law itself, I quote: "In the light of the proposed transitional period, the estimated cadastral income in 2017 will be reduced by around €10 million, in 2018 it will increase by around €11 million, in 2019 it will increase by around €15 million, and in 2020 by around €19 million. In 2020, the total cadastral income covered by income tax will be higher than the current one by slightly less than €35 million, which means more than once higher." Moreover, even the government itself wrote in an explanatory statement that around one third of the rural households will increase the cadastral income to 50% or on average just over 60 euros per year, about half between 50 and 300% or on average up to about 140 euros per year. Approximately 10% will increase the cadastral income by more than three times or on average by just over 200 euros per year. Respectable and respected, the fact is that since about 2013, when the former Minister had an unfortunate hand in the management of agricultural policy, one or more natural disasters in various forms have visited the Slovenian farmer's unfortunate agricultural policy every year. And that the situation in Slovenian agriculture is on the border, they also assess in each agricultural assessment the situation in previous years, produced by the Agricultural Institute of Slovenia. Let's just look at the comparisons between 2017 and 2016 and then you'll see exactly why today's novelty is absolutely necessary. Factor income, the difference between 2016 and 2017 – minus 15%. Agricultural production volume – minus 10 % and reduction in the number of farms between 2000 and 2017 – minus 25 %, net added value of agriculture in 2017 compared to 2016 – minus 31 %. And then there's the story of a reduction in self-sustainment. Self-care in agriculture in the last year, which is another reason why we decided to table this law in the SDS Group. As it is said, because in the SDS Group, unlike the government six, we work for the benefit of the citizens, not only for the public sector that this coalition buys with candy, we also work for farmers, craftsmen and economists. Hereinafter, a few more words why this Cadastrian Income Law is urgently needed and we ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government or to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Natalija Kovac Jereb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u71	I thank you for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members! The proposed law is intended to establish a transitional solution as a permanent measure in the new Cadastrian Income Identification Act, which states in the first year of implementation in 2017, only 40% of the cadastral income found by the new method was attributed to land. The proposed solution is justified by the objective of a fair and reasonable tax burden on farmers. Catastrophe income and flat income on bees are a flat-rate estimate of income from agricultural and forestry activities. Catastrophe income replaces the actual income shown by natural persons engaged in agricultural and forestry activities for which they do not need to keep bookkeeping under the rules and therefore do not show actual income. In view of the constitutional principle of equal treatment of persons in comparable economic situations, it is essential that this flat-rate assessment remains as realistic as possible. Catastrophe income was frozen from 2013 to 2016 and was only around 15% of the real estimated income, as shown by the economic calculations of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia for agricultural and forestry activities. This situation was assessed as inappropriate by the State, as well as by the professions. With the new method of determining cadastral income, the Cadastrian Income Act was implemented in 2016 with a large consensus of professions, as well as of the public interest. The method is very transparent and stable. On the basis of the new calculations, it was estimated that taking into account the full amount of cadastral income on arrival into the new method would double approximately, with the reference to the extremely low baseline level of cadastral income in 2016. The law has set up a three-year transitional period to gradually increase cadastral income to a more realistic level. An additional safeguard for the gradual transition is also the transitional implementation of the Cadastrian Income Identification Act, which is further regulated by the Income Act. It is said that the full estimated amount of the annual cadastral income under the new method is for all agricultural and forestry land of around EUR 100 million or for the private sector of around EUR 76.5 million. Even so, the calculated amount of cadastral income is still only around 30 % of the average real market income of private agriculture. Although this share is higher than in the years 2013 to 2016, it is still lower than in the years before 2013 when it was between 40 and 50 %. The new cadastral income on average also represents low amounts of annual changes, since the newly calculated cadastral income per debtor represents only around €180 per year of cadastral income. The new tax base contributes very little additional income from income. Even taking into account the new cadastral income, the large majority of farm households, around 95% of them, will still have the sums of an annual cadastral under 1,000 euros, says they will contribute less than 170 euros in income from this title. Thus, it was estimated that the increase in the level of cadastral income would not significantly change the situation of farmers in the scheme of other public benefits and rights. In view of this, it is not possible to talk about an excessive burden to threaten the social situation of farmers. Taking into account the proposed solution, this sense and the purpose of the adoption of the Cadastrian Income Act, which was followed by the drafters of the bill and all stakeholders, both the Government and its proposer, as well as the legislator who adopted such an arrangement, would also be destroyed. The proposal for a law is also non-systematic, as the proposed regulation misplaces Article 12 of the Cadastrian Income Law. It is therefore possible to conclude from this content that the proposed changes are already being implemented. The Government therefore opposes the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Cadastrian Income Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u72	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Member Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u73	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The cadastral income in our legal regime represents a flat-rate assessment of the income of the owner of agricultural or forestry land according to the type and quality of the land itself. On the basis of these land data, it is possible to determine the income that such land would bring to the owner and, on the basis of this, to measure the tax. In the previous mandate, the Cadastrian Income Act was adopted with a view to a fairer tax burden. The amendments have since claimed that the calculation method introduced is inappropriate, since it is intended to impose excessively high revenues and thus impose tax obligations. Therefore, in the first mandate, and again today, they have proposed that solutions from the transitional period, which foresee a gradual increase in cadastral income, should be applied as a permanent one. Following a proposal from the proposers, this increase should be stopped or returned to the point where it was at the beginning of the previous year. There is, however, no answer to the question of why a new law in force has been adopted, which the applicants now wish to amend. We have known the system of cadastral income in Slovenia for a long time. Since it serves as a flat-rate amount for the provision of a tax base and a tax liability, it is already important, in terms of equality before the law and tax justice, that amount also corresponds as much as possible to the reality. However, analyses from the past periods, as the Government also points out in its opinion, have made clear that the old method of determining cadastral income has underestimated by more than 50 per cent the actual income that could be achieved through land-based management. The old system therefore underestimated the assessment of land income and thus violated the principle of tax inequality. However, the second reason for the change was the complexity of the calculation or equation for determining the cadastral income. The two factors led to a strong underestimation of the total cadastral income and, from 2013 to 2016, to an annual extension of the cadastral income. A new method of determining cadastral income has been developed in cooperation with the experts and several ministries. Administratively, it is simpler than the old one because it is calculated only every three years, for the debtors it also means a more stable and predictable environment, which is a regular requirement whenever a debate on any tax change is supported. In the calculation of the amount of income, the applicable law provides for the coverage of data five years ago, thereby ensuring that the impact of bad years is also taken into account and thus preventing disproportionate increases in tax liabilities. The adoption of the proposed amendments and additions would mean that they would have intervened in the regular implementation of the law already adopted and would have prevented a fairer division of tax burdens from being enforced, not to mention the risk of unconstitutionality that each retroactive intervention entails. As the Government also explains in its opinion, the adoption of these proposals would destroy the purpose of the adoption of this current law. It also considers that its continued validity will not entail significantly higher costs for the debtors, nor should it have a negative impact on their accounts for social security contributions. The vast majority of farmers are not socially insured on the basis of catastronomic income, but rather on the basis of actual income and expenditure or on the basis of standardised expenditure. Also on the basis of the available data, the Government notes that the increased cadastral income should not have an impact on eligible taxable persons for social transfers or on the payment of income. A large majority of those in debt will also not exceed the amount of annual minimum income by increasing this income. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will therefore, at the end of the debate, oppose the proposal for a decision that the bill is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Ambassador Gregor Židan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u75	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today at this meeting, for the second time in the last year, despite the unaltered circumstances, the National Assembly is considering a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the identification of a cadastral event submitted to the National Assembly by Members and Members of the SDS for consideration. This is a case of some kind of recycling in the previous term of the proposed laws of the same applicants, which have already been rejected in the National Assembly. A similar bill was tabled in December 2017 and was rejected by the National Assembly at its regular meeting in January this year. Let me also point out that the present bill is one of the nine re- tabled or recycled SDS laws of the previous term. The only difference in the text is the yearbooks and transitional provisions. Today we are Members of the new mandate to witness a kind of déjà vu feeling. Let me explain. The déjà vu feeling is something we've already experienced, so today we're gonna have to listen to what we've been through for three and a half hours. The SDS will reiterate its commitment to a fair and reasonable or moderate tax burden on Slovenian farmers, as these would be overburdened by taxes and contributions, and the government and members of the coalition will again, by introducing, prove that the SDS claims are distorted and unrealistic and that this model does not bring enormous taxes as it wishes to show, and that it is good, in line with key stakeholders and also fair, as it introduces a fairer distribution of tax burdens. In the SMC Group, we would first like to draw attention to the genetics of the emergence of a new model for the determination of cadastral income. In 2010, Pahor's government decided on a thorough overhaul of the determination of cadastral income; the law was adopted by the National Assembly only in 2011 and it was not intended to apply separately until 2012 and June 2013. Why was this thorough renovation even made? If we consider the administrative reason, this is the abolition of the old records, the main reason was that the cadastral income was last identified in 1988. So in the previous social system. Later, he was just admiring himself. It may not be too much to point out that the change in the socio-economic system required a change in the tax system and that this change took place only 19 years after the independence or establishment of the free market economy. In 2012, the Janšev government moved the start of the execution of the catastrian income determination using the new model, as conditions for the introduction were not provided. At the time, Janša’s government did not think about changing the system, but although based on the 2011 model, it would have taxed EUR 113 million of the estimated cadastral income after later calculations, but provided the necessary funds for the introduction. Although there was a new calculation under the government of Alenka Bratušek in 2013, it turned out to be based on insufficiently verified calculations and on some inappropriate and even incorrect data. The government set up an expert group to verify the calculations that were the basis for the new cadastral income scales. The expert commission found that the existing model could not be simplified, but it would be useful to consider a different model that would allow for a more flat-rate, simpler and transparent calculation. In 2014, the amendment to the Cadastrian Income Recognition Act was re-adopted, extending the transitional period for 2014, 2015 and 2016. It was not until 2016 that a robust and simpler and more transparent system of identification of cadastral income, which brings a more predictable and stable tax environment, was introduced. It took five years, and in the meantime the three governments replaced us with a model for determining cadastral income, which, on the basis of up-to-date data and in a simple and understandable way, determined real income, and thus provided a comparable and fair treatment for all taxpayers. Before that, it was determined by the principle that we call it over the thumb, and the height was frozen for many years. It is also worth mentioning that the previous government model has almost fully aligned itself with key stakeholders, such as the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, the Forest Owners' Association and others. They themselves considered that the cadastral income had previously been assessed too low and therefore did not oppose the changes. A number of 18 proposed solutions were accepted for these stakeholders, but the solution was not taken into account that the standard costs should be at least 94%. In this regard, it should also be noted that the calculations showed that there are between 84 and 85 actual costs on agricultural land. In order to recognise the importance of agricultural activities, the previous government has set the standard costs for agricultural land at 90%. This is 5 to 6% higher than the actual. The new model for the determination of cadastral income will not be fully implemented until 2020, i.e. seven years after the original plans or after 2013. The calculations show that the model in force does not make the enormous decisions it wants to show the SDS. The Ministry of Finance estimates that in 2020 cadastral income will be higher than the current €45 million. With the previous frozen situation between 2000 and 2016, it amounted to little more than €40 million. In addition, a transitional period was also adopted which took into account only 40% of the calculated cadastral income in 2017, which meant that during the first year the cadastral income was even slightly lower than in 2016. In 2018, or by 2017, it will increase by around €11 million; in 2019 it will increase by around €15 million in 2018 and in 2020 by around €19 million in 2019. However, on the basis of the findings and facts cited by the Government, it can be concluded that taking into account the SDS proposal would mean that income is not assessed on a realistic basis but is set at a significantly lower level. However, compliance with the SDS proposal is inappropriate, as this would mean less than 15% of the real income being taken into account. When the cadastral income is taken into account in full, the burden will increase on average by around €70 per year per household or €5 per month. When we talk about the biggest increases, for example, we are talking about an increase in cadastral income from €40 to €260 per year. In 2016, 74% of farm households were excluded from KD taxes because their KD does not reach EUR 200. At the end of the transitional period, 72% of such farm households will be. The tax burden will therefore increase by 2% of the debtors. And when it comes to fair burden sharing, it is worth noting that the income base of farmers after the end of the transitional period will be around 25% of the estimated income, whereas in the past the base for farmers was less than 15% and for other economic activities over 40%. Therefore, it cannot be argued that by a new method of determining the cadastral income, farmers are overly burdened by taxes and contributions or that the new method has made the social situation of Slovenian farmers worse. The current law has not been adopted with a view to the public financial revenues derived from the taxation of agricultural taxes, but rather with the desire to obtain a system for the determination of cadastral income which will cover all the different agricultural productions, which will take into account all the specificities and then the importance of agricultural activity, whether it will be more realistic, reflect the actual situation and will also be justified in relation to the taxation of other economic activities. The solution, as proposed by the SDS, does not benefit anyone; neither does the State nor farmers if the frozen situation from 2013 is prolonged. I would also like to point out that, to date, the adoption of the law has not been addressed to the legislator and to the Government by key stakeholders, such as the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber and others, any initiative has been taken to change the way in which the cadastral income is determined, except, of course, the populist proposals of the SDS. In addition, the law in force contains a number of advantages, such as certain processing from complementary activities, treatment after a new as a basic agricultural activity, which are then upgraded by solutions in the Income Act and have already become recognised as beneficial or stimulating for young farmers. The SMC therefore considers that the SDS amendment to the Cadastrian Income Law does not reflect the actual situation, that it is misleading, that it is essentially a form of tax populism and is therefore not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Mr Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u77	Mr President, thank you for your floor. All hailed, Members and Members of the Ministry as well as representatives of the Ministry! That's the way it is! Research data in 2017 show that the trend continues to decline in the number of agricultural holdings, with an increase in the processing area. The average agricultural holding processes 6.9 hectares of agricultural land, a quarter more than in 2000. Large farms are also more than 2000 – almost 50%. To explain the concept of a big farm. For large farms or large farms, the agricultural holding, which processes more than 20 hectares of agricultural land, is of course in use. These large farms are now processing a third of all land, about 17% more than in 2000. It is similar in the field of livestock holdings. The share of holdings accounting for more than 30 head of livestock increased between 2000 and 2016 and increased by 50 %. Thus, these economies account for 39% of all livestock heads or 16% more than in 2000. At the same time, it is interesting that the decline or death of small farmers and the rising growth of large farms are no longer likely to have a positive impact or effect on the very extent of production and food supply. Production only grows in those categories where we are already self-sustaining, while in others it stagnates. The latter means that larger production is actually intended for export, not to increase the food security of Slovenia. Slovenian agriculture, in particular small farms, needs certain systemic incentives to make farming more profitable and self-sustaining. The proposed amendment to the Cadastrian Income Law, which the applicant wants to use, says, in this case SDS, achieves fair and reasonable taxation of Slovenian farmers, is, in my opinion or in our opinion, going to the wrong end. An intervention would be needed in the area of the Income Act in such a way that the large would be taxed more and less. There it would be necessary to structure classes systemically better, not by the balancing system, to limit the share of the value of the cadastral income, so that they are once again large. We also make a deliberate contribution with this kind of policy to the abolition of small farms that mostly care for Slovenian rural landscapes. The creation of agricultural economies, which would be as large as possible, is, on the one hand, the pressure of certain influential sectors of food processing and sales, following the economic paradigm of unlimited growth and completely disregarding the social, cultural, environmental and sustainable aspects of farming brought along by smaller and medium-sized farms, in particular for an area such as Slovenia. And especially our area, such as Haloze. Our assessment of the novel is about the principle that we advocate in Levica in all other areas. Unfortunately, we are lonely in this regard, as most continue to favour tax exemptions for the richest, making the state budget poor, and thus the extent of the resources to be allocated to social transfers and investment in health, education, pension and other state systems. These systems are financed by the smallest or economically weak members of the company because of distortions, disproportionate structures. We also use their money for structural investments and aid that go, unfortunately, to large ones. So small at different levels, they finance large farms over and over again with their work; they say, in this case, also large farms. Small farms would essentially finance large farms. When we tried to introduce additional capital taxation provisions in Levica to account for capital gains, they wanted to prevent this from happening through some political options through different ways of direct political and media pressure. Here we see the revenues that we as a country can devote to incentives and exemptions that would expose a lot of fair – the relationship between individual agricultural economies, if we are in the field of agriculture. The new law that we are considering is trying to permanently reduce the value of cadastral income. Unfortunately, this is done on a flat-rate basis, for all farms alike, although it is clear that the greatest incentives would need mainly small farms, which would have little benefit from the proposed reduction, since the cadastral income due to the low level of processing surfaces does not have a significant impact on their income. 40% of farms are less than three hectares, most of them are in a restricted area where ratings are low. Catastrophe income here rarely exceeds 100 euros per hectare at annual level. The reduction that the proposal seeks to introduce would thus have a nominal advantage in particular to large agricultural economies, and most of the consequences would have passed on to the smallest stakeholders, so we will not support the bill in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Ambassador Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia, the total number of agricultural holdings is decreasing. Smaller farms are the lowest. The number of people is decreasing, this is a problem, and the number of people working on agricultural holdings is decreasing. The average age of farmers or agricultural operators is relatively high – 56 years. Increasing global climate change also has a negative impact on the development of agricultural activities, and Slovenian farms should therefore be more encouraged to contribute to the market as many products as possible to increase self-sustainment with high-quality domestic food. Slovenia still has relatively good conditions for this at the moment, and it would therefore be unacceptable not to take advantage of these conditions in the right direction. Instead of promoting its own self-sustainment, the country has, with recent changes in the regime of cadastral income in 2016, burdened those operators of agricultural holdings that create the most in this chain. The Slovenian food chain depends most on family farms – I would like to stress this in particular. Family farms are also high on our priorities, our agriculture programme, namely the New Slovenia programmes. Today, the tax policy of this activity is hampering and does not work in a positive way, so we would expect a lower and more transparent tax and excise policy from the Government, allowing for additional employment in farms and thus a lower risk to the social risk of farmers' families. In order to promote and develop agricultural activities and self-sustainment, the Administration must simplify and reduce the tax burden as much as possible. At present, the country grants a subsidy to the farmer first, and then it collects a lot from the recipient through taxes and contributions — this is pointless. The proposed amendment to the Cadastrian Income Act, which is before us today, is certainly a step towards improving these conditions. A transitional arrangement was adopted in 2016 by the Cadastrian Income Recognition Act. In 2017, cadastral income and flat-rate income estimates on bees were attributed at 40%, in 2018 at 55%, and in 2019 at 57% of flat-rate income estimates on bees, as established on the basis of the methodology set out in the Cadastrian Income Law. The main solution to this law is that the transitional provision, which provided that the cadastral income on bee stump was attributed to 40 % of the flat-rate assessment in 2017, is defined as a permanent provision. It is said that the 40% allocation of cadastral income and flat-rate income estimates on bee stumps are also in place in 2018 and in all subsequent years. In this way, it would prevent an increase in the tax burden by increasing the cadastral income from 40 % to 75 %. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the proclamation of the world bee day, our historical tradition and pride in the Krajina gray are not enough for the long-term success of Slovenian beekeeping – what beekeeping, Slovenian agriculture! A favourable administrative and tax environment must also be maintained for farmers, as this law pursues these objectives, and we will also support it in Novi Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u80	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Member Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u81	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your floor. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Catastrophe income and flat-rate income estimates on bee stumps are the topics where we are now largely different, in particular in the amount of the footnote: whether this should be 40% to go through or whether this should go on some progressive scale as specified in the law; this is for 2018 at 55% and for 2019 at 75%. The purpose of the transitional period is to avoid excessive leaps at the level of flat-rate estimated income. This could have an impact on the rapid and excessive increase in obligations and limitations of rights. The objective is to gradually bring the cadastral income closer to the real level. The next point to be mentioned is that, for 2018, for this year, a certain cadastral income and flat-rate income assessment on bees is already at 55 %, and therefore the proposal to reduce the proportion of cadastral income to 40 % would constitute a retroactive intervention into the law. Catastrophe income is an estimate of actual income and must therefore be comparable to it; this principle has been followed so far by all the rules governing methods for determining cadastral income. The proposal for a resolution of the law means that, given only a 40 % adjective, this would in fact constitute a low assessment of the share of real income. Therefore, such a solution is not appropriate, as it would result in an unjustifiedly more favourable treatment of one segment of persons engaged in an activity. The main issue with regard to the proposed amendments is whether the new method of determining cadastral income imposes excessive burden on farmers with contributions and taxes. In other words – does the new method make the situation of Slovenian farmers worse? After the end of the transitional period, the total tax liability of such taxpayers in the year when the cadastral income will be taken into account in full will increase by just over €6 million or an average €69 per year per household, which is less than €6 per month. The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will vote against the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Mr President, I know that with what I have just said to you, I have said nothing new. Please understand, however, that we are talking about a lot of technical matters that do not give much opportunity to creative imagination, and therefore I ask you to understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u82	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Dušan Šiško.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u83	Vice President, thank you for your word. In the Slovenian National Party, we support the proposal for a law, since it is without prejudice to the existing basic principles of the Cadastrian Income Law. The proposal for a law amending the Cadastrian Income Law follows the principle of fairness and moderate taxation. In compliance with this principle, the aim will be to ensure that Slovenian farmers are not overly burdened by taxes and contributions and that, in accordance with the actual social situation, they can exercise rights from public funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected Slovenian farmers and farmers! The day of truth has come. After ten years of increasing a number of public institutions, employing at least 20, 25 thousand people in the public sector, not draining European funds, which we have already had at one of the extraordinary meetings, because, we can say, we draw disaster and everything else, where we are literally offered money on the market, of course, comes the moment of truth when we are looking for budget revenues. We are looking for budget revenues for the poorest, whose only means of transport is a bicycle with an auxiliary engine, what we saw yesterday, we see those migrant workers that we dealt with at the previous point, many people, workers, entrepreneurs and everything else. Many citizens can find out that when they turn to a gas station, they can figure it out through excise duties, through abnormal prices, and also by smoking – we are in the middle of a heating season – and so on. So all this money is sought in the easiest way to tax the most decent, the most working, the most capable people in this country. This is a typical continuation of these socialist policies that you've been doing for 50, 60 and 70 years. Today it is our turn, of course, to return to agriculture. The speakers in front of me today were talking about recycling some laws and I don't know what. See, our foundation was the Bible of Slovenian agricultural policy, in particular the Bible produced every year by the Agricultural Institute of Slovenia. It is a fundamental scientific research, professional and advisory institution that is about to celebrate 120 years of its existence tomorrow. Her report on the state of agriculture on 136 pages tells us where we are and where we conclude our agricultural story. So, in times of great, we can say climate change, in times of technological change in particular that are happening, the fourth industrial revolution is also taking place in agriculture – we can say in a variety of new aids that will further help on farms – and in the face of Slovenian reality, where many agricultural production falls, where we have self-sustainment in many sectors catastrophically, even in Slovenian honey – which I did not even imagine before I was chairman of the Committee on Agriculture – fruit, vegetables, with the average age structure of a Slovenian farmer who is about 57 years old, and in the fact that daily — I repeat statistics – daily in Slovenia, 1.5 farms fail. And in the fact that people who stayed on farms, once farmers who wanted to keep their family farms, which had been owned for centuries, are still processing this land at the age of 70, 80, these few acres or hectares in the fact that they have 180, 190 euros in pensions. All of this happened because they were enemies of socialism and of this sick ideology, which destroyed entrepreneurs, decent, capable, innovative people and also farmers. This continues in Slovenia alone. See, cadastral income; we can talk about the cadastral since 1748. Thus, it was a Terezian cadastra, which at the time described legal rights holders to land, showed the use of land within four cadastral cultures, announced income and subordinate obligations and data that were then covered in this cadastral. So, since 1748, we've had things arranged. Catastrophe income in its theory speaks of a flat-rate assessment of possible market income, of agricultural and forestry activities on agricultural and forestry land that could not be achieved by means of an average local, usually type and level of production in agricultural, forestry land in the Republic of Slovenia for the purpose of carrying out agricultural or forestry activities. In our material prepared for this session, we have produced statistics from this report, which I mentioned today, which I can say if I somehow plastically express that it is a bible of the situation in Slovenian agriculture, Slovenian agricultural production. I think it's a basic document that we can come from. This isn't about ideology, it's about arguments, and I repeat, pure arguments. On this basis, we have also prepared this amendment to the Act supplementing the law on the determination of cadastral income. Every year, the Agricultural Institute prepares this report on the state of agriculture, food, forestry and fisheries. The latest report on the state of agriculture, food, forestry and fisheries for 2017 on the state of agriculture in Slovenia states, inter alia, that, according to the causal survey carried out in June 2016, in Slovenia, some less than 70 000 agricultural holdings are engaged in agricultural activities. The trend continues to decline in many agricultural economies, as in the last three years their number has decreased by a good 2 000 since the 2013 sample census. Compared to the year 2000, when the first European Comparative List of Agricultural Economies was carried out, the number of agricultural holdings decreased by about one fifth and by almost 17,000 agricultural holdings decreased since 2000. This is also shown in Table 1. In 2016 about 199 thousand 71 people worked on the agricultural economy, which is good 2% less than in 2013 and almost a quarter less than in 2000. The vast majority worked on family farms, representing 97% and the rest on farms, businesses and cooperatives. The age structure of people, as I have already mentioned today, working on family farms, is still unfavourable – it is worth 57 years, which is even one more year than it was in 2013. Thus, for one year the average age of Slovenian farmer or farmer also increased to 2013. The economic results of agriculture tend to fluctuate considerably over the years, as they depend mainly on the volume of production and the cost ratios. According to the provisional data of the economic accounts for agriculture, agricultural income in 2017 was significantly lower than 2016 and lowest after 2009. The deterioration of the economic results in 2017 is mainly due to a significant decline in the value of plant production – so much is not said today about self-sustainment. With regard to these self-sustainment, let me also mention the fruits, especially cereals and industrial and feed plants. At a slightly higher value of livestock farming compared to the previous year, the price-cost situation at aggregate level was once again slightly more favourable, and this did not mitigate the impact of significantly smaller crops of plant processing. According to temporary data from the economic accounts, the prices of agricultural crops increased by around 4 % at the total level in 2017 and the estimate of meat consumption remained at the level of the year before. The net additional value of agriculture decreased significantly in 2017. Once again, I repeat to all those who are opposed to this novel; the net added value of agriculture has decreased significantly in 2017, namely by almost a third. According to the provisional estimates of statistics, agricultural income was almost 15% lower than in the previous year. With regard to budget support for agriculture, it is stated that most of the support in Slovenia, which is intended for agriculture and rural development, provides us with the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. In 2017, the implementation of the budget together with the bodies in the composition amounted to 385.4m euros. Of this, 298 million euros and 77 % of the total budget were spent on agricultural policy measures. The remaining funds were allocated to forestry and fisheries, which is about 10%, and to the administrative and other costs of the Ministry and the authorities in the composition of approximately 13%. In 2017, EUR 3.5 million was paid to remedy the effects of the cold in 2016 on State aid. Together with these funds and the reimbursement of excise duty on State aid, 3,5 was paid together with the excise duty on fuel used in agriculture and forestry, as the agricultural economy is applying to the Ministry of Finance, the budget payments for agriculture amounted to approximately EUR 322 million. Following Slovenia's entry into the European Union, budget support for agriculture has increased significantly since the financing and co-financing of most of the measures were included in the European funds. However, with the programming period mainly between 2007 and 2013, growth stopped. After 2014, the funds decreased slightly as budget payments over the last four years average around EUR 333 million. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues, it follows from the analysis and data of the situation in Slovenian agriculture that the budgetary and European funds for the implementation of agricultural policy measures are actually lower, that the share of the costs in the structure of the income of the Slovenian farmer is higher, that the income of the Slovenian farmer is declining and that their income or social situation is worse. As a result, the age structure of the labour force on family farms is also deteriorating as young people do not choose farming because of the poor income or social situation of the Slovenian farmer. In July 2016, however, the then coalition parties SMC, Desus and SD, on a proposal from the then government of Mir Cerar, adopted the Cadastrian Income Identification Act, the so-called second part of which raised the flat-rate price of market income for agriculture and forestry activities, the so-called cadastral income. This has made the social situation of most farmers significantly worse, as the increase in cadastral income has led to an increase in income and social security obligations and a reduction in public funds rights. It follows from the explanation of this law that around one third of farm households will increase the cadastral income by 50% or on average just over €60 per year, approximately between 50% and 300%, or on average about €140 per year. Approximately 10% of the cadastral income will increase by more than three times or an average of just over 200 euros per year. About 10% of farm households, however, will fall in cadastral income from an average of 160 euros to less than 120 euros per year. In the third paragraph of this Act, which I refer to, Article 16, adopted a transitional provision to ease the increase in cadastral income. It was accepted that, in 2017, cadastral income and flat-rate income estimates on bees were attributed to 40 % in order to be attributed to 55% in 2018 and to 75 % of catastronomic income and flat-rate income estimates on bees in 2019. What did we now want to achieve, and what were the goals and principles of this novel? The main objective of the proposed law is to determine the fair and reasonable or moderate tax burden of Slovenian farmers and farmers. This can be achieved by reducing the cadastral income, which covers income tax. It also affects the level of social security liabilities and the scope of public funds rights. The draft law does not prejudice the existing basic principles of the applicable Act on the identification of cadastral income. The proposal for a law amending the Cadastrian Income Law follows the principle of fairness and also has reasonable or moderate taxation. In compliance with this principle, the aim will be to ensure that Slovenian farmers are not overly burdened by taxes and contributions and that they are, in accordance with the actual social situation of the established rights from public funds. The principle of fairness is followed by horizontal fairness that taxpayers with equal payability can pay the same amount of tax, as well as vertical justice, respected colleagues and colleagues. Higher-paying ability taxpayers pay more tax. This is an example of our argument. I want the debate under way to put forward counter-arguments, without a priori against everything we file. Finally, let me just add that the god of Slovenian farmers should help him and also give us a healthy, reasonable mind that we will not destroy the Slovenian farmer, but that we will give the conditions that Slovenian farmers will stand to regulate the landscape, speak for those small farmers, and that larger farmers will be those who will mainly produce more food for our market, for our healthy society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Edvard Paulič will present as the last position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u87	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! In 2016 a new Act on the identification of cadastral income was adopted. Catastrophe income replaces the actual income of natural persons deemed to be engaged in basic agricultural and forestry activities under tax rules and does not need to be led by bookkeeping. The current method of determining cadastral income has been prepared within the working group composed of representatives of the ministries, the agro-economic profession and representatives of various associations. As a result, the law was in line with the various stakeholders before the adoption. The law introduces a solution which provides that the cadastral income is calculated only every three years; it takes into account the average income for the last five years as an annual income. This allowed for the predictability and stability of the tax calculation and eliminated the impact of excessive fluctuations over the years due to good or bad years. The law also provides for an interim transitional period during which the measured cadastral income is gradually approaching the real level. Before the adoption of this law, calculations were underestimated and the calculation methodology was outdated and this issue had to be addressed in an appropriate manner. As far as tax burdens are concerned, after the transition period, they will on average increase by poor 70 euros per year per household. The expected impact on the increase in social security liabilities will be low, as most persons with flat-rate income from agricultural and forestry activities are not insured on the basis of this activity. Thus, the catastrophe income replaces the actual income shown, and it is therefore important, in terms of the constitutional principle, to treat persons equally in a comparable economic situation, that it can be realistically measured. The Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal means that only one segment of persons would be put into unfairly more favourable treatment, and this is not in line with the principle of fairness, which is why we cannot support the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal in the Parliamentary Group of the List of Marjan Sarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u88	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Before we begin with the debate of the Members, I give the floor to the motioner. Mr. Fox, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for the floor. Good-bye to all of you again! Allow me, as a proposal, to comment a little on the views of the Government and the parliamentary groups. The government said, for the most part, it was about methodology. Respected and respected, it is not a matter of today's law or of today's discussion of methodology. It is not ideal, which you probably recognize at the Ministry, and all the other stakeholders recognise, but the methodology is not the topic of today's law, although there are also some open issues, particularly as regards the growth coefficient, and there is probably a need for correction. But I understand the intent of the Ministry of Finance. We have given money to the public sector and somewhere needs to be taken, we will take away the one who creates, the farmer, in this law, because in fact for the next year it will be more taxed – or real or nominal – because it doesn't matter, you tax the farmer more each year. This increase in cadastral income has important consequences for public funds, and then we all have a problem which burdens this Slovenian farmer who creates. Let us leave the system introduced by the former Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in practice, when we are now talking about the scope of public funds rights, that the system imposed by the former Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs does not work in practice, that the coalition Members are likely to be pressured by citizens and citizens who ask what we must do in order to receive a child allowance, scholarships and a tenth of other social rights in 2019? Is the system working or not? And as stated in the adoption of the law on how the system of public funds will work, it was also here in 2016 under the Ministry of the Minister of the Jews, the same party of the SD, said that the cadastral income would be valid and would be great for the Slovenian farmer. But unfortunately, a respected government, I don't know if you ever watch any reports, when every 2 or 3 months a Slovenian farmer is even more affected by the phalanges, winds, colds, droughts and more. This has a de facto impact on the Slovenian farmer, but the Ministry of Finance in Manira – farmers, pay taxes. You don't care. Social Democrats, I did not expect a different position from them, because we know who was the predecessor of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. A man who, in words, stood up for Slovenian farmers and in practice did exactly the opposite. Catastrophe income, first case. But he was even so hypocritical, I dare say that he said in 2017 – When I am still in power, there will be little less cadastral income; but when the new government goes where it goes. There'll be another minister handling it. I think that the Cadastrian Income Law is one of the main reasons why the Minister of Agriculture no longer sits in his post. In fact, but he rather withdrew to the National Assembly and left his successor with respect to agricultural problems: cadastral income, tax receipts, thousands of 500 new agricultural regulations and so on. On the other hand, despite all the urgent meetings of the Committee on Agriculture, we did not know how to solve the problems of natural disasters. Now, however, the SMC Group, which says that there are unaltered circumstances. Dearly respected, the representative spoke about the position of the SMC Group, the Report on the state of agriculture, food, forestry and fisheries in 2017, and allow a few sentences that will give him what he said were distorted and untrue, and that it is misleading and tax populism. Let us see what the Agricultural Institute has found, which in my opinion is neither left nor right, nor the Jews, nor the Leafs; neither of any other. “The year 2017 was extremely unfavourable for agricultural production, the volume of production of agricultural products decreased by 10 % according to temporary statistics, with a decrease of 19 % in the volume of plant production. Self-sustainment rates have declined almost everywhere." But the SMC MP says – nothing new, unaltered circumstances. Moreover, honourable Mr. Gregor Židan, SMC Member, that there will be no mistake, especially for you and the Slovenian public, in the report: »The economic results of agriculture have deteriorated significantly at the common level in 2017 compared to the year before. The net added value of agriculture decreased significantly by around a third compared to 2016, minus 31 %.” But Mr. Jewn says, unaltered circumstances. However, agricultural income decreased by around 15%. Mr. Jewn says, unaltered circumstances. Dear Mr Gregor Židan, if you listen to me, I suggest that you make a resignation statement immediately today and stop being a member of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, because what you have enjoyed today in the position of the SMC Group is a grave attack on those people, on the farmers who should also be represented as a member of the Committee on Agriculture. And you talk about how the SDS claims are distorted and untrue, and, for the first time, they are summarised according to the Report on the State of Agriculture in 2017 and are summarised according to the previous government when it adopted the Cadastrian Income Act. Once again, especially for Mr Gregor Židan, the commitment will increase the estimated cadastral income in 2018 by around €11 million in 2017, by €15 million in 2019 in 2018 and €19 million in 2020 in 2020, taking into account the proposed transitional period. Dear Mr Gregor Židan, the unchangeable circumstances; 11 million plus 15 million plus 19 million are not populism at all, but the real numbers of officials at the ministries. And I can read again what the Agricultural Institute has done. And once again, Sir Gregor Židan, if you are listening or where you are looking, I suggest that you no longer burden the members of the Committee on Agriculture with your presence, because this is an excess that you have enjoyed today. Then, Desus, I listened very carefully to the position, but not because of the gentleman he proposed; but mainly from the point of view, because the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the first to defend the position of farmers, comes from Desus' quota. And I asked her very carefully at the hearing, what will be her role in the position of the first lady of Slovenian agriculture in view of the deteriorating tax and, unfortunately, the natural consequences that we have in Slovenia. And, of course, it was full of sweet promises, but unfortunately, I note from the position of the Group of Members, which is probably also very close to the position of the Ministry of Agriculture, that even under the new Minister, there is no better prospect of the continuation of the policy of the former Minister. Whether officials who are likely to be the same at the Ministry or whether it is its intention to continue the work of the predecessor, this is her business. But I hope that the Minister will not continue with the disastrous policy of her predecessor, but will pave a new way for Slovenian agriculture. But the promises, given the lack of support for this law, already show that this will not be the case. With regard to the position of the LMŠ Group that we are putting one segment of people in a better position. The same government increased the position of individual public sector stakeholders overnight, not by means of the Value Added Tax Act or the Income Act, systematically resolved the situation of all citizens and citizens; no, they silently shared money with their electoral beneficiaries and improved their position. But when the SDS proposes not to improve the situation for farmers but to keep them alive, we listen to the opinion of the largest government party that it is unfair to put one segment of people in a better position. Now I don't understand you, when New Slovenia today proposes the Income Act, which would cover all citizens and citizens, you have a lot of problems; when the SDS proposes the Value Added Tax Act to reduce your value, you have a problem again. But when we talk about one segment of people today, those who create, in addition to craftsmen and economists, so that the public sector has wages – let alone, of course, the public sector also works, but I think that the public sector needs to be fully aware, as we, officials in this Chamber, where the added value comes from our wages – but for now, God forbid that farmers have, as has been said, a better position. And I really want to know how to put farmers in a better position. I have a feeling that a lot of MEPs have no contact with Slovenian farmers, that they live in some of their fairytale world, where cheese, milk, beef come on the shelves and they all live happily, and farmers are paid well anyway and they don't have to work hard. I am very disappointed in the views of the parliamentary groups. I must say that I commend the experts of the SD, SMC, Desus and LMŠ groups who, in the opinion of the Government, could somehow shape the views of the Members of these parties. Unfortunately, I have the feeling that at least two-thirds of the positions; here I will say that Mr Desus was very correct, and I have the feeling that he even knows what it is about this mother; but the others have only read what they received before the meeting into their hands, because if they really believed what they read, they would probably be ashamed to go to the farmer's market in their congregation tomorrow and look the farmer in the eye, who would sell them apples or some other product, would really be ashamed of them. And it's right that they would be, or I hope they'll be ashamed. When Mr Židan said earlier - nothing new, unchanged circumstances; there are changed circumstances, respected members of the coalition. Why we are investing in the SDS as well as in New Slovenia almost copy-paste draft laws from the previous term. Because with this family about super new Members we expect a super-better understanding of the situation in Slovenia, either in the field of taxes, or in the field of economies, or in what we have today, in the field of agricultural policy. Clearly, it is a utopian thought that the new Members of the government six will better understand the situation in Slovenia, so that they will be freer and more determined with their heads, but obviously this will not be the case. Apparently, the story of the previous term will continue. In the previous term, three coalition parties pressed for or against who the proposer was and their opinion was written in government chambers. In this mandate, we have six coalition groups that will do the same. They pressed the key to or against, depending on who the proposer was, and reasoned on what they would write to them in government rooms. The recycled government has also shown today that in fact it thinks only as it is written in the cabinets of ministries or governments. Indeed, we expected that there would be so much sense and knowledge among certain Members, including in the field of agriculture or in other areas, that they would say - not always necessary, who is the proposer, but what is it. And it is here that we do not tax the Slovenian farmer more than it was in 2017. Because you believe we are halfway there by 2020, when Slovenian farmers will be burdened with cadastral income. I hope, however, that even then, we will not listen in this national assembly to how the SDS claims are distorted and unrealistic and how tax populism is involved. Go to the farm market and ask her if her work under the Cadastrian Income Act is tax populism or its higher cadastral income is due to misunderstanding, which I am increasingly doubting, or the intentional bidding and destruction of the Slovenian farmer. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u90	Thank you, proposer. We continue with the general debate of Members and Members. The first one gets Mrs. Iva Dimic's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. When I listen to your views today, dear fellow Members of the various parliamentary groups, I can only ask myself if none of you has really grown on the farm. All your arguments that followed are about not knowing the work and life on the farm. I'm talking about farms, I'm not talking about agricultural companies that have different laws, where taxes are taxed differently, where value added taxes are charged differently. I am talking about farms, about family farms, where there is no business, where it is just a job to survive and it can be preserved what the ancestors may have created. The increase in cadastral income to the level to be reached in 2020 is a total increase of 260%, to the level of previous years. The rate has indeed been made to rise gradually each year, and once we have a good year and a half in 2020, we will have a 260% increase. Who can survive with such an uplift or can continue to maintain a normal farmland and also maintain their family in good condition? Everything that has been going on in agriculture lately has already been said by the proposaler Tomaž Lisec. But something changed at the time that all of this began to happen. We must not forget – raise the cadastral income. Our forests were severely affected by the stomach in 2014. Later each year, we are still talking about an increase in cadastral income. For what? Moreover, the calculation changed to a growth coefficient, depending on the quality of the land. What is growing there now that the growth coefficient is so high and so high that taxes can be 260 percent higher?Oh, my God! Who's asking that? Is that a match? You might find that out for me. I have known colleagues on my left, who have been from the Ministry of Finance for many years, and I believe they know the situation of Slovenian farms. Are we aware of how bad the negotiations have been for the future common agricultural policy since 2020? But we are aware, Mr Židan, Minister for Agriculture, who is not here today, and all his team, as well as Prime Minister Miro Cerar, of how poorly the negotiations on the common agricultural policy have been going on to get them for 3.9 direct fewer payments than it was; and 15% will reduce rural development funds, what we have negotiated from the European Union. Are we going to adjust taxes, or are we going to adjust cadastral income to these indicators, which are due to the poorly negotiated, compared to the European Union for a Slovenian farmer? Are we going back to the time when the farmer was somewhere on the edge?Oh, my God! I'm from a farmer's family, no child support, no pension after a late father, we really lived off what we could produce, and from a devoted milk. And I get a year or two ago a letter to my home address, a gentleman wrote to me why I advocate a Slovenian farmer, because he can pay for every egg and every litre of milk. Should a Slovenian farmer work for free for everyone? Isn't his work worth admitting to him in some way? That the Slovenian farmer won't give anything for free. Does he get anything for free? When is this relationship with the farmer going to change? With the rise of the cadastral income, like when I was small, in 1988, the children of these farmers will again be without child support, parents will pay for higher kindergartens if they even put them in kindergartens, the scholarship will not, is it to say that we will share again – whose are you? Are you a farmer or an employee? For us peasant children, it was always worse, even Santa Claus we didn't know. Why, with some taxes, intervene on the subject of taxes in a changed image that we will have after 2020? Housing organisations, including the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, cautions that such a reduction in European funds, so poorly negotiated, and a rise in cadastral income is not good for the future of the Slovenian farmer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Nada Brinovšek. But get ready for Jani Ivanusha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all your colleagues in the hall! When I listened to the views of the coalition parties, I wondered whether you had not looked at this report on the state of agriculture, whether you had just read when someone wrote you a position, or whether it was your opinion or whether it was because we had tabled a change in this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I just hope, fellow Members, that the next time you go to the field, when everyone likes to go to the field, especially in the countryside, when you visit our farmers to have an excuse to do so, I am referring to you, the coalition, why today you will be against this law, the law that would somehow help our farmer. It is definitely true that in 2016 your previous coalition, or now your coalition with the addition of Left, increased the base for the cadastral income of our farmers – 40% for 2017, 55% in 2018 and 75% in 2019 – as our farmers will feel in their own currency in 2020. And what does this successful promotion mean for our farmers? This means that our farmers will pay more cadastral income at the end of the transition period in 2020. One third of farmers will increase their cadastral income by 50%. One half of the farmers by 50 to 300 %, and 10 % of the farmers will receive an increase in this cadastral income or increase in the base by more than three times, according to the Government in its opinion. And our proposal today is that this base for catastrotic income remains at 40%, as our colleague Tomaž said. I must say that before the meeting today or before the positions, I had the hope that this coalition might only confirm our proposal. Why? If you have read, respected colleagues, especially those from the Committee on Agriculture, a coalition contract, where it is stated that small farms are at risk – and in Slovenia we have, in particular, medium-sized and small farms – which deal with high production costs and low incomes. That's what the coalition contract says. And I wonder how, on the basis that we will increasingly burden our farmer, you will realize all of the eight measures you have in the coalition contract. For example, to support and in what way will you then support farm tourism and complementary activities. In such a way that you will give them tax rulings? To put more pressure on them in the field of bureaucracy? I am interested in how you will achieve success in promoting the transfer of farms to young takeovers. I would like to know how many of these agricultural coalition measures will be after four, God forbid, after four years. Otherwise, you say so yourself that this coalition contract, I'll say at home, is a bluff. I am also concerned about the statement made by the Minister of Agriculture when I asked her at the hearing: You did not participate in the preparation of the agricultural programme, do you agree with everything in this coalition contract, with actions and sub-targets? The minister made it very clear and loudly that she disagreed. And I hope those measures aren't the ones he disagrees with. If we move on. If you look at the report or I take it from this fat report on the agricultural situation, which I said earlier, I strongly doubt that we all, at least from the agricultural committee, have read it. This report says that the number of agricultural holdings per year is decreasing. In 2013, there were 72 thousand 377 agricultural holdings, 2016 – 69 thousand 902 down. The number of persons – farmers on farms – has also decreased by 2 %, compared to 2013-2016. The average age of the masters is falling, as he said in his position and in his debate, Tomaž. The income of the Slovenian farmer falls. That's definitely it. Their social situation is getting worse. We have a poor situation in the area of self-sustainment, European funds for assistance or for the implementation of agricultural policy are declining. Instead of being friendly to farmers, the Ministry's actions only make their situation worse. Not to mention the nature of the arthropod, the wind, the administrative barriers to business, or the work of the farmer. In the Upper Savina Valley they joke, they say that now we have come so far that every farmer will have to have his secretary. And I think it'll be so far away soon that I can nod them. Not to mention what happened to them. God forbid I recall the real estate tax that is in the process of hurting our Slovenian farmer. Like I said, instead of getting the farmer stimulated, we give him a little to breathe more easily, but we're just loading him something, we're binding something, and so on. I feel sorry for farmers because they don't have such an organized union as Svez does. If farmers were a little more organized, a little bit more pouty, we might be able to achieve something more. If we go to young farmers who are supposed to be young takeovers. A lot of these young farmers who can work at home, but who have little income, decide to go to work. It's the only way they'll survive. And when we somehow increase their cadastral income, this will also increase the base for the income assessment, and as a result, many young families will be deprived of social transfers – scholarships, children’s allowance, kindergartens and so on. In this way will we encourage our farmers, who are still somehow the only ones caring for our villages? And in this way we will have, as I said before, fewer and fewer of our young farmers. On the other hand, in a few years' time, we will be wondering blindly, instead of wondering what and how we are preventing our Slovenian farmer, we will wonder why the number of farms is falling, why there will be no self-sustainment, why our agricultural land will grow and why our permanent crops will be abandoned. If I move on from this report. Our livestock farmers are already importing half the feed for their livestock. They're not getting any encouragement. Or if we look at those farmers who work mostly in forestry, they have their own forests that they can be proud of and take care of. Natural grips, icicles, or windshield at the end of last year. Even at the end of October this year or if I come back to last year. In the Upper Savinja Valley, I know farmers who have been destroyed by winds from 750 cubic metres to over a thousand cubic feet of wood. Do you know what this means for their income? What does that mean for their farm? One spruce grows on average one species. It is true that they now received some money from this title because they cleaned up their forests and sold this wood. But the price of this wood has now fallen heavily on the market. How will they live for the next 50 years? And the year around, the country has not taken any action, intervention law or whatever to help this farmer. Finally, I will say that I have remembered very much or will also quote the statement of Minister Vraničar when we adopted or when you adopted the former coalition and this coalition now, this law. She said that the cadastral income has so far been overestimated. The real explanation is why he was underrated, we didn't get it. And that a new law is needed. But if it turns out that the methodology is wrong, it's just going to change. Let's wait three years, burden our farmer three years, and see if we have to make any changes. But our farmers will be paying at this time. I don't think it's right for a farmer's policy to be governed primarily by offices. Finally, I would like to comment on the words of the secretary in the opening position when she said that the law currently in force meant on average EUR 180 for a farmer and that it would not have a negative impact on the situation of farmers. How will it affect the position of farmers? And if it's 180 euros, Madam Secretary, for you, it's negligible, for most of our farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša has the following word. But get ready to be a magician. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u95	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! To begin with, because I listened to the views of the parties, I was most offended by the position of the SMC. The member who gave the position is essentially a member of the agricultural committee and he thinks so. Okay, I understand what a coalition means, but there are other facts. I also imagined that in the views of the parliamentary groups, we were talking about the opinion of the law or what is good, what is not good in this law; and then he gave us a position. But to allow a man to attack a constant customer on my left, I just don't get it. This is unusual for me in the positions of the groups of Members. The gentleman from Desus has also said well, and he has already apologized in advance, who has given his position. I believe he's having a hard time, but it's back in the coalition so he has to listen to what the coalition means, but I believe there's farmers in his client, too, and I don't think that's a little bit. And just to be defined that way, the fact is the way it is. Mr Breznik made an excellent assessment of the agricultural situation – what is the situation, how farms dry, the situation of young people, the age structure of farms, accidents, European funds and so on. It is already known that drawing from European funds, which is already so bad, is at least as much in the agricultural field as in the other ministries; it will be a minus 10% of the European funds in the next perspective. Young takeovers, too, do not hope to take over farms with those 40,000 euros, and on the other hand, because of financial or tax measures, they simply fear that they will not freeze, in their own words. In this amendment to the Cadastrian Income Act, I have the feeling that the matter will go to a negative halt in the proposal of the law. We also had our last debate on the agricultural committee to give small farmers or vineyards, since this is the same story at the end of the day, a complementary activity. Those who have a few hundred reeds or reeds. I'm afraid if something like this happens, our vineyards will be infested in the future. However, I have to refer to the previous point, although there are still ladies from the Ministry, about the income, because I received one statement from a young entrepreneur who congratulated me on the fact that the Slovenian National Party supported the proposal for a law on income, but I immediately told him that it would be difficult to go through the law because the coalition opposed it. And I also got a message, and I'm going to quote him: "The disaster. I don't know what to say. This is only good for lazy people in social life, and I will also go to the stock market for EUR 400, and every month I will not blink." [[…]] That we must seriously consider whether it is worth being in Slovenia. This young entrepreneur, who employs 15 people, is the greatest point of the story — young people will go. Because they see that nothing will change, a year, two; otherwise, today I have received Mr Robert Pavšić's reply that the system regime will be within one to two years. I hope that's true. Let me just say what bothers me. The coalition, you are not young, you are not from a farmer, the same for a small man, you are not for the craftsmen we discussed last week, the law proposed by Nova Slovenija regarding the regression benefits and those of the hospital 15 or 30 days. Basically, you're no good. I don't know what you're for. For the public sector, obviously, only yet. You always say on the other hand how much this change costs, how much the financial system will suffer. But you always say we have to tell you where we're gonna take it. The government gave social transfers a few days ago, we gave, so it will not work, the reduction will be the same year. The averages of the congregations went up. The public sector union – so far at 308 million, is not all finished. Retirement is a matter of regress, so that there is no mistake, we will also support all these matters, otherwise the government has scissors and canvas in its hands, but it has not told where it will take it from. That's the joke that bothers me. Not a single measure is supported by where she's going to take it. I don't know if it's going to work out by borrowing the state or something. You answer it yourself. Today, it was well said about how much higher revenues there were. I think it was one billion, something like that. Mr. Shircel said. That's interesting, that's good information. You can read it from the tables. Mostly, as a novelty, I say that if the opposition is investing all of this, and everything is rejected, I don't know if it still makes sense to continue. I've been here for six months and I can see that nothing is so far for the good of everyone, mostly just a narrow view. That's what I'd have for now. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u96	Thank you. The next one has the word mag. Andrey Shircelj. But get ready for Dr. Darius Krajčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In the beginning, I would like to tell you what this law was about and what it was about when the Cadastrian Income Act was passed; perhaps for those of the List of Marjan Šarc who were not present at the time. It is the case that cadastral income is the basis for income taxation. I think that in 2016, in the previous mandate, the government amended the Cadastrian Income Identification Act, which has an impact on income taxation in farmers. It has changed it by substantially increasing the cadastral income on the basis of different methodologies, including perhaps simplifications; but it has increased by most farmers if that was not the real, economically defined cadastral income. That was the main reason. Then, on the basis of the new methodology, the formulas, everything you wanted to have to be as professional as possible and, above all, untransparent, a new cadastral income with a new law, which was found to be an enormous increase. A once-in-a-lifetime promotion for an individual farmer, so the government has made transitional provisions and said – No, this will be too much for these farmers, but now it will be too much tax, let's give us after each year; in 2017, so much percentage, 2018 – 55%, 75% to the end. In short, let's slowly cook the frog, slowly get the farmer to pay more and more taxes. Representative of the Government, Mrs Mag. Neva Žibrik will tell you exactly about every farm, why she paid too little tax at the time and why that cadastral income was wrongly determined and why it is now the one that is most correct. She will probably say this on this basis – I see that Mrs Neva Žibrik – is also the State Secretary, Mrs Natalija Kovac Jereb. Can it tell how many farms will pay more taxes on this basis in 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 and so on, on the basis of this new methodology. Will any farm pay less tax? Secondly, can it tell how much less or more, what changes are made on the basis of the social benefits of these farmers. On the basis of the cadastral income for farmers, benefits such as scholarships, child allowances and so on are also to be determined. How much less people will get for this. I think he's got the projection, the Ministry of Finance analyzed everything, it's all been prepared. And how much the actual data is that people get less, as much as they get under the old legislation, after the Cadastrian Income Act 1 (ZUKD-1), as the government says here. The government will say it's fairer. Everything is fairer and each of us here can somehow otherwise imagine this “just” and this is more economically fair and so on. I don't think we can unify what is more economically fair in all elements, but we can set some criteria in terms of justice itself. And these criteria, which were shown here and which were adopted by the Cadastrian Income Law, were unfair, were purely fiscal, were such that in fact a farmer would be more entrenched in that country. And that's what the previous government did. All parties except one party did not take into account the Slovenian National Party, but I understand that they were in the previous government. So I can say there's only one new client in the coalition. And the previous governments have accepted it, and we have not accepted it. As a result, farmers will be more taxed. And now in the Slovenian Democratic Party we say: No, there is too much tax burden. The country has received from income, value added tax, corporate income tax enough money to prevent any gold fiscal rule from being threatened, ladies and gentlemen. This will not endanger the stability of public finances, not in Slovenia, not in Europe or the world. We will not cause a crisis because of the cadastral income of farmers. Do not be afraid of this, I assure you that there will be no global crisis, because the New York Stock Exchange will do the same with or without this law. But it's about whether or not you're going to step in front of people. Are you going to step in front of people and decide that farmers will not pay excessively higher taxes and that farmers will be able to receive scholarships as their children received last year, social benefits, child allowances and so on. And this, of course, has led to or provided a basis for better agricultural development. It's a very simple matter, whether people get more taxes or less taxes, that's what this is about. And if you don't support this law, it means you want to tax people more. Very simple. The fact that it's retroactivity, don't worry. If a farmer or a taxable person is in a more favourable position, this is nothing constitutionally controversial. Have them write that in a government opinion, only half of it. They know this at the Ministry of Finance, I don't know how much the Secretary of State knows about agricultural taxation, but she will be able to explain everything and tell them what they've written and calculated, but this data is actually. Tell me, what happens if this is accepted, how many people will be less affected? That's the only question.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Dr. Darius Krajčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u99	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The tax story is very nice for taxpayers, especially if there is a proposal to reduce taxes on the table. Each one of us inside and out of this hall is right away for taxes to be reduced when they have to be paid. On the other hand, the country financing the social part of our society is not some imaginary creation, but it is simply a simple household and, of course, cannot provide public services, public services, cannot provide social services unless it has properly regulated revenues. We have heard many times, including from the Minister of Finance, that we are under-averagely taxed in relation to the other members of the European Union. However, the structure of tax burdens is inappropriate and it is also stated in the Coalition Treaty that this government, and then also Parliament, will support tax reform in terms of tax burden restructuring. Today we have heard many things about this law, as well as a lot of things that do not concern this law at all; and they concern the general problems in agriculture as well as other pains. Let's concentrate, however, on the tax story. We have heard that the averages were not sufficiently increased according to statutory regulations, but at the same time they would lower taxes. Of course you can't. If we want to raise averages, if we want to raise pensions, if we want to raise transfers, if we want to raise salaries for soldiers, raise salaries for the police, better equip the army, better equip the police, improve health care; we must, of course, take it from somewhere. And those things that finance it are contributions in one part and taxes in the other. Of course, it's very nice to say: We'll pay lower taxes, that's better for the citizens. This government, which is now in power, is very hostile to citizens because it does not leave them, as we heard at one of the other sessions, even enough to buy hats and gloves for cold winter days for small children. That's very populist. The revenue of the budget due to all the bill proposals that have been tabled in this National Assembly would be reduced by almost a billion euros if we sum up all the bill proposals that have already been tabled. This is the VAT law, the income bill, and maybe some of the catastrophic income that I forgot about. Of course it doesn't work that way. You know that in the opposition, too, that that's not how it works. And in such a short time, if all of this were accepted, all these strong, good, smart proposals of the opposition, this country would be sold out as soon as 100 days of the government. And since we're talking about tax restructuring, it was one of the questions today when this is going to happen. I think it's dignified, respected colleagues and colleagues to give the government at least 100 days of peace on such matters. The government is not yet in power for 100 days, and we are already demanding strong interventions into public finances that are crucial to the functioning of the country, and we all know that very well. The treatment of tax legislation very much reminds me of a novel by Milan Kundere – The Insufferable Possibilities of Living. Roman came out at the beginning of the 1980s and describes what happened during the spring powder. And I would suggest that you read that, to see where out of this endless ease, as well as the proposals for amending tax legislation, this will lead to misery. Of course, the above is a story that we need to fix and is also recorded in the Constitution — and the question of whether it is always wise — is a fiscal rule. Perhaps this law would not in fact introduce a fiscal rule; but with all the other laws that have been tabled as proposals to this opposition national assembly, it would certainly be. And tax legislation, the tax package, these are the incomes of this household, which is called the state, must be dealt with together. Otherwise, as we know, this law was adopted in the previous Council of State, and only a colleague would correct it, not by the Government, but by the National Assembly, but by the Government only making a proposal. And now it's the only thing that needs to be implemented. The percentages of the increase really sound frightening – 100%; but it should be known that it is on a small basis. Anyway, realistically speaking, it's on a small basis. Indeed, the burden on agriculture, for farmers, will be greater, there is no doubt about it, but it will not be too great. As regards the acorns and the rest, as mentioned today, it is necessary to know that also where the forests have been severely affected, tax relief is recognised, I think, precisely on the cadastral income. This is where the state helped. I'm a woodsman myself, and there's something I need to know. Indeed, these forests are affected and these farms, which mostly live off forests, will be affected in the future when there is no income from these forests. But today they're not, because today they're selling this wood and they have money like a stove. And it would suggest little advice on how to use this money wisely in order to have fewer problems in the future, because they will actually have them, especially if they are linked to income from forests in the majority. I imagine that the government, as it has already announced, and this coalition will relatively soon present the tax burden restructuring package in Slovenia. I'm really looking forward to it. I believe that the government will be able to do so if we look at the success of this government during its rule, which is less than 100 days, they are truly great. He made an agreement with the municipalities on average, which, a few years ago, he failed as a deal, but it has always been determined by the government. He made a deal with the unions, and some other things worked. I think that this is actually going in the right direction and that there is also a need for some tolerance and for the government to take its task away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Now I give my word to the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u101	Allow me to respond to Mr Krajčič's words, which I do appreciate very much because I know that he knows agriculture, especially forestry. But I was a little disturbed when he said – It’s nice to talk about less taxes, and the problem is practice, because somewhere we have to take something and somewhere we have to give something. And right here is this fight of concepts. You or this government coalition or this government have passed laws, passed through the National Assembly to the public sector. How long has it been? Do you even know? 300 million, up, down, no problem. Easy. On the other hand, who will pay for it, a small thing; but also a farmer. Here's our troubleshooting. This is not a problem – the real sector, the public sector, by no means. But who has to have the conditions first? The real sector to create. In the case of this law, you do not give the farmer the incentive to create more, but you give him a hint – he flees agriculture before 2020, when the cadastral income will come to life to the full, because you will have problems with cadastral income, income, public resources. They'll also be asking small farmers, they're worth doing, and it's worth it to have kids because I'm a farmer, with a kid's allowance, with a scholarship. There's this fight. We do not have a problem that, as you said, you boasted about success in these 100 days; but you gave it to someone and you take it from someone else. And then scream that the opposition will need a new ZUJF. No, no, you've given 300 million, and here we only want one small segment, enough raising taxes; you're against it. Why are you against it? To give to someone else whether it is fair or unfair to ask whether someone deserves more or not. We are here in this law, and we are talking about this today, we claim that Slovenian farmers should not earn worse treatment in 2019 than they had before. We are disturbed by these transitional provisions. My colleague Andrej said earlier: The former Minister of Finance or Minister of Finance has determined – Jesus Mary, with this cadastral income we will kill the Slovenian farmer, but soon as the elections are over, we will give them even a little leave of absence, how beautiful we are, then with the second year we will somehow equalize, and then the next government, the next coalition, will come, that is you there, except for that part of the SNS that you have to deal with. And instead of being smart, I'd say, okay, if the previous government was wrong, let's say stop. No, you continue and in the end you will be guilty of the law of the previous term when it is fully implemented. And here we say that the burden of the Slovenian farmer is enough. On the contrary, you claim – let us give the Slovenian farmer a tax burden so that we can then boast about where we will put it elsewhere. Here's our different view. We argue that farmers do not deserve higher cadastral income, but you say – farmers, what we will give you; in 2019, 75% of the base and in 2020, 100% of the base. Here's the concept and we're saying that's enough. And if we adopt this law today, we will signal to the Slovenian farmer that the previous government has made a mistake and that we are Members of this national assembly, among which there are many new ones, they say no. Unlike the previous mandate, we will listen to the Slovenian farmer, but according to the views of the parliamentary groups, I will say this again, we are coming to a recycled government and a coalition where everyone reads the opinion of government officials and takes it for granted; they do not know that the situation on the ground has changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u102	Thank you. Mr Franz Breznik has the floor as the last debater to be declared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u103	Thank you. Let us take a summary of why we are here, why we have tabled a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Cadastrian Event Act. As we are aware in the Slovenian Democratic Party of the space and time in which we live, and the basis for the introduction of this novel was the Report on the state of agriculture, food, forestry and fisheries for 2017. As I said at the beginning, 136 pages of the agricultural Bible, in which you can determine which direction Slovenian agriculture is going. The results of a large part of the agricultural sector are devastating. I repeat, they're defeated. Secondly, I would like to remind you that last week we were in Zagreb at an interparliamentary conference on agriculture, where I explained one contribution on the generational renewal of Slovenian farms. I was talking about one of the positive stories about wine families that started this generational reconstruction; but at this point we are in an extremely sensitive time. As I said today and as colleagues explained the statistics: 57 years is the average age of Slovenian farmer or farmer; approximately 6.9 hectares is a large Slovenian farm. Not to explain that there is very little quality working land, a flat-quality cultivated land, all the rest are farmers somewhere on the banks, on mountain farms. If we add up the rest of the underdeveloped infrastructure, farmers are in an extremely insurmountable position today. We want to say that in a sensitive time, in which it must also occur in Slovenia to achieve generational reconstruction, we give signals to the market. And these signals are extremely important. We want to send a signal to the markets that farmers will be the successors who will be heavily taxed, that this is not worth it, that the authorities will also have the word after the farmer, that what they did not destroy in the 50-year ideological pursuit against a independent, independent farmer, they do so in 2017 and beyond. That's what I'm saying. If we want to preserve Slovenian agriculture, Slovenian self-sustainment, the preserved Slovenian landscape, then we need to lower the cadastral income, and in particular we need to give the right signals to young farmers to start farming mentally. Not to explain that many of my colleagues, such as my colleague Bogovic, are teaching stories about digitisation, especially in the village, the very interpretation of digital stories, the digital agendas that are happening, these platforms that will come to the countryside as soon as possible. Tell me how we're going to digitize rural areas where you have the age structure of a farmer for almost 60 years. Give me a hint; while your powers, after hiring thousands of new people in the public sector, in institutions that no man needs, are almost free of European resources, that you have no ambition to pull anything out of any of the drawers. Your ambition is only how to draw from the Slovenian budget, how to tax the most decent working people or drive them abroad. And the results are here – 1.5 Slovenian farms fail daily. Each day, 1.5 Slovenian farms, older farmers, those who have long retired have a pension of about 190 euros. By redressing the injustices after their independence, they were granted so-called state pensions. Under Svetlik's reform, the great Social Democrats have turned this into so-called social transfers and have literally settled up on these small farms. People are literally dying away from modern science today, especially medicine. For example, I come alone from the Slovenian Mountains, watching the sad fate of these people on these poor farms. And what are you doing in here? What are you explaining to them? Krečič, a doctor of science, explains that “money is like a stove”. Tell me, where's the "money like a furnace"? Perhaps in these so-called towers developed by the Jews with their agricultural policy, where they have the best agricultural land in the plains that they once stole from some owners after the war. Today, those turbo farmers who built them have it. And the vast majority of small farmers die on meals. We fight for all the farmers, but most of all for those who are most at social impact. How will a young person who has an idea, an ambition, go with his family to live in some part of Slovenia, from God's mind, how will he start farming, if you're already predicting it – we already have a Cadastrian Income Act for 2019, 2020 and so on?Oh, my God! Tell me what a signal this is for Slovenian agriculture. How are we gonna make this generational? Give me that base. You are also talking about the methodology today, in our work we have presented to you the practice in Austria, where the methodology is only for beekeeping, which is considered not to be established up to 40 logs of income, and above this scope is a flat-rate tax base on stumps, which is different for a volume of up to 99 logs, then between 99 and 300 rods for a volume exceeding the upper limit. So they have some fair methodologies. They are aware of what small farms are, aware that they are extremely important to preserve the landscape. What's our landscape like in these corner parts? How will we develop tourism if the landscape is healed by cutting out many vineyards, permanent crops? What will this landscape look like in 20 years? Where do we get people who want to see more, say people who have a thicker wallet than we say coming from some concrete cities? They want this country, they want good food in the countryside. We are likely to want the development of these tourist farms, where the short supply chains will be a literal treasure that we use over and over again. And that we want to decentralise that Ljubljana will not be everything, but the countryside will be nothing. That's what I'm talking about. I can tell you're very hard-hearted to these people, very hard-hearted. And I was looking at the previous term, 10,000 people a year and a half were hired. During the fourth industrial revolution and digitisation in public administration, where half the jobs we don't need, you hire these bureaucrats. And why people don't pay taxes, ask yourself. What is the basis for each country’s prosperity? You know what Hayek once said? In the first place, it is a country that operates in a very rational, rational state and, on the other hand, entrepreneurship. These are the two most powerful moments that some country is developing to go in the direction of what we all want to be a greater prosperity for all of these people. And what do we have, what signals do we give? A country full of debauchery. At least 30-40 thousand too well-paid people who don't know what they're doing, or they double these functions. A number of institutions no man in the world needs. And we don't do anything. We give each other, we shop, we hire our own people. The school system, half the personnel no man needs, 75,000 people on the stock market. At the same time, these farmers, these industrial apples, were falling apples this year. I was in Pekra two days ago, and in all the baker's apple orchards, they lie in orchards and fall on the ground, while there are 75,000 people on the stock exchange. None of them came, I don't remember, I didn't see them coming, and they'd pick them up, they'd turn them into dry fruit, juices or whatever Austria's offering, Germany, Italy. And they sell it for a few times the price. Or perhaps some incentive for these people to develop an industry, buy some machines, mills, dryers, and make some progress. Nothing, no vision, no ambition, just taking, taking, taking and spreading this abnormal bureaucracy and philosophy. Real things. And of course there's no money, we need it because we're terribly rich. Let's get people to work. Look what's happening to us. And what is the ultimate goal? Farmers fail, young, ambitious or working people go abroad. And most of the migrant workers we talked about today are already abroad. They build houses there, they create families and they transfer their residence to Austria, Germany, Italy or even beyond the European continent, to other countries, Australia, America and so on. Is this the future of Slovenia, given that we have a terrible low birth rate? Is this our future? We also finance family degradation, faith, private education, a monopolized school system for everyone to think in a box. On this basis, we want a new society of knowledge, innovation and everything else. Completely flawed leftist policies that once destroyed one such country. And now we're on our way to destruction. It starts with us; if we want to change the world, if we want to do better with this country, we start with ourselves. If we want to create with ourselves, then we need to start working. A rational management of this country, a search for a hole where money is the one we're missing most from the budget. Colleague Jelka Godec has presented to you health problems that money is enough, but that we are missing through all the seasons in all the positions. Dr. Ange Logar showed what was going on in the banking sector. A colleague from Nova Slovenije spoke very well earlier about the public invitations that are known to escape us in overpaid highways, various large mega-Romanian projects and so on. We have already had a meeting on drawing on European funds, where the money available to us is unknown, we do not want it, or we are incompetent, unambitious to draw on it. The money around us is really enough, but we only see it in the budget and in the easiest way, it's the easiest way. And the easiest short way, of course, is to raise excise duties, taxes, cadastral incomes and everything. And this is our main revenue in the budget. On Laffer's curve, which was the basis when you studied macroeconomic policies as a student, I remember where the turning points were coming from. And the turning point means when people say we're not gonna pay for it anymore, shut down the company, shut down the farm, move abroad. We are in competition today, around us there are competing countries with lower taxes, and for these smaller taxes people also get these public services that some of you have talked about today – better, better quality, they don't have to stand in line and have no holes in the road, the doctor comes right in line, the specialist comes right in line. Once they have lost their jobs, their support is several times higher than in Slovenia. In the school system, young people can choose different education systems and then have the professions that the market needs and get a relatively fast job. When they get a fast job, they can quickly form a family, and then such societies will survive. And societies like ours, and right now, under the signals you're giving, we're barely in the second regular session, you're saying that this company is going down. And I'm sure we're going down if we're still aware that our best environment, which is our biggest export partner, Germany, is extremely cool that we've had some stagnation there for the second quarter, then we're at the beginning of some end. And I think that all the red lights are burning here, now is the time for reforms, for restructuring, for people who are on the stock exchange, and for those who are not needed in the public sector to re-engineer them, as in America, Austria, Germany, that they are no longer structurally unemployed, that we send them to help the Slovenian economy, to Slovenian companies, and that these people create added value to make good investments, people with mass capital, which is now the best country to invest in; that we bring such people into the country. I've had some quality experience, I walk around the world, I know some powerful people, and I know how they think. In a country where we have a dictatorship of bureaucratic thinking, where we think we will achieve change without change; no one hopes to invest in such a country; or some funds that are hidden behind some of the very speculative capital that this capital invests in. And this is also the problem of Slovenian transition, Slovenian privatisation and everything else, so that I do not interfere with this context. If we somehow complete the story of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Cadastrian Income Law. The Slovenian farmer now needs a smart policy, a policy that will understand the time and space that will understand that there are also revolutionary changes in agriculture ahead. We are talking about technological changes, we are talking about generational changes, we are talking about climate problems, we are talking about all the natural disasters that we have seen in the past; we are facing fatal changes in Slovenian agriculture. The Slovenian farmer needs a sound mind policy right now. As President of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, we understand the time and place in which Slovenian farmers and farmers are located. We have a whole range of measures against somehow stabilizing these negative trends and turning them into positive growth. Dear colleagues and colleagues, with respect to all of you, I would like to ask you, on behalf of the Slovenian farmer, a Slovenian small farmer, to listen to us, to leave some of your client orders aside and reconsider. I believe that there are plenty of good souls among you and that you will understand this, that you will listen to us, that we will make some common first signal, that the Slovenian farmer should not only be helped by God, but also by the Slovenian National Assembly and Slovenian politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u104	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Dr. Darius Kryczych has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the floor. Since I mentioned it, I need to replicate a little bit. If he throws a windshield at someone, say he throws 10 acres, he wipes it out. These forests that we have seen on TV are good forests, estimated to have about 400 cubic feet [400 cu m] of wood. If we multiply 400 cubic metres by 20 euros, let's say it's net taken out of it when we subtract all the costs; but if 10 hectares were damaged after the windshield, the amount of 80,000 euros will come from the sudden owner of such a forest by selling this wood. Under normal conditions, if I cut 10 hectares on a regular basis, the amount is about EUR 2 000 400 a year. From here, my argument is that suddenly such a forest owner has a lot of money at the beginning, but of course he won't have it later, because he won't be able to cut again. And that's what we need to know when we debate, and we don't debate populistally. I hope now my friend who went out because he didn't want to hear me will understand me better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u106	Thank you, too. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a proposalr. I therefore give the floor first to the representative of the Government, State Secretary Natalija Kovac Jereb.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Vice President. Following this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Cadastrian Income Law, one third of farm households will increase their income to 50%, which on average means slightly more than €60 per year. About 10% of farm households will decrease their cadastral income to an average of € 160 per year. There's something else I'd like to mention. Catastrophe income will increase by an average of 383 euros per year, 90% of agricultural households, to thousands of euros per year in 2020. I think this is a very important number of data that tells us a picture of agricultural households in Slovenia. It is important to know, however, that a farmer pays proportionally according to his income, this is also the principle of righteousness, which we have already mentioned on several occasions. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Mr. Mag has a word for the replica. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I have a replica of what was said; even if I was not directly named, I have understood the content, and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly speak of the content. I would ask if I could get more information on how much social benefits are actually going to go down, but you didn't answer me or tell me you don't have this data. I was talking about scholarships, how much they're going to shrink, and I was talking about child support. That's one thing. That's another thing. Half the farmers will increase their cadastral income and thus increase their taxation, thereby reducing their social benefits. That's a fact. This coalition and this government are in favour of increasing the taxation of these farmers despite favourable conditions, despite higher revenues. It's the right thing to do. And the other thing. It is now difficult to speak about righteousness, whether it is righteous or not. And you're saying it's actually more fair. We argue that it is no longer fairer because the cadastral income has been unjustly determined. And what Dr. Kračič says, how much wood will be cut at the beginning and so forth; perhaps. However, when these revenues start to swell, this tax will be the same or even higher and the burden will be even greater because we have a progressive scale here. And if, in all this tax matter and not accepting it, I mention it, although Mr Kundera is not part of the subject of taxes, the unbearable ease of living, as this book or Mr Kundera speaks of, then I tell you that this book speaks of a unique opportunity that you have in the world that you can do, and it is unrepeatable. And also about the tragedy of those 1968 events. And now you have, a respected coalition, this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to eliminate the madness that was written three years ago, and secure the system and then build it yourself. That's exactly what you can do today. It's a one-time event. For the unique events of the world are but one and are not repeated.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u110	Your replica time is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u111	Look, up there still shows me I have time.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u112	Three minutes is the time to replicate the Rules of Procedure. Yes, I believe you do. The next word is proposed by Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u113	Thank you. Apparently, the left governments have no luck with the people at the Ministry of Finance, from worse to worse. What the Ministry of Finance representative said about the principle of justice, and then more taxing farmers, is a clear picture of the Ministry of Finance's intention. The Slovenian farmer must be taxed. If he survives, he will survive; if he does, he will go into a city or a bigger city abroad. The distinguished representative of the Ministry of Finance, while you easily said - no problem, we have the principle of justice; I received at my e-mail address the calculation of one farmer, what will happen with his lower forest, higher forest and its fields, all about 9 hectares of surfaces, in 2020, when you still defend the principle of righteousness. This gentleman, this landowner will receive an increase in cadastral income: one forest – 348% increase, one field – 718% increase in cadastral income on the forest. This is a principle of justice, a respected secretary of state. This is what you want to tell the Slovenian farmer. And you were still, be honest, a little hypocritical. You have said that about 10% of farm households will fall in cadastral income. But you've forgotten two key indents. Firstly, about half will increase the cadastral income by 50 to 300 %. Approximately 10% will increase the cadastral income by more than threefold. 718%, Your Honor. Please don't talk to me about the principle of justice when you throw money out the window on one side, and on the other hand you expect a Slovenian farmer to raise an abnormal cadastral income, which is not a problem in itself. Although the problem is that at the same time it will be 100% and not 40, which we are advocating, the problem will also be that this increase in cadastral income will have a brutal impact on income and on other contributions from public funds. However, I will not repeat the story that I started earlier, that older farmers or young farmers ask themselves, for the first time, why the devil still insists on Slovenian farms and, for the second time, whether it pays them to have children for whom they will be deprived of children's allowances in the previous term, or whether they will be less eligible for scholarships or lower, and for the whole range of other rights, they will ask themselves how much they will be reduced. Therefore, the distinguished representative of the Ministry of Finance would almost say something about where you give yourself the principle of justice, but do not really talk to me about the principle of justice, while raising the cadastral income by 718%. If that's your justice, then with our country and all those who support such a government, something damn wrong. And it will not be wrong if this law is enforced because it will bring moderation to the Slovenian agricultural area; and not such nonsense as the law has introduced. We have the opportunity to be different from past Members in the previous mandate and from the former Minister of Finance and the Minister of Agriculture; but it is obvious that officials at the Ministry of Agriculture and, in particular, officials at the Ministry of Finance are stronger than previous Members of the coalition and also stronger than the current six coalition groups. The sad fate is apparently written to a Slovenian farmer for such a prisoner of representatives of the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u114	Thank you, Mr. Proposer. I would ask you if you would be respectful of everyone who is in this Chamber, including the representative of the government. All the debaters you wanted got your word. Since there is still time for discussion, I ask whether there is anyone else who wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly? Yeah. Let me just warn you before the application so that a representative of the Government and a proponent can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If they apply, they will be given the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. Now I'm opening the application, please sign in. Each debater has five minutes of time available. First he gets the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u115	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting to everyone at this point of the agenda. Today's debate on the amendment of the law proposed by colleagues and colleagues of the Slovenian Democratic Party is time-consumingly best placed. Why? We have a multi-annual financial framework for the EU-27. For the common agricultural policy in Europe, 32% of the European budget, which will be a large sum of €1.1 trillion for seven years, is allocated to the common agricultural policy, following the current proposal, about € 365 billion. Now in Slovenia, Slovenia gets less money for agricultural policy, Slovenia gets significantly less money, I think 26% less for rural development. That's why I'm saying this law is time-barred. And the Agricultural Forestry Chamber says that if this goes on because Slovenia is obviously not well negotiated, the stability of agricultural policy in Slovenia will be compromised. That's what the Farm Forestry Chamber says. Not Nova Slovenija, I'm just reading it and reminding you of that. Whether the government hears it or not is another question. When the law was adopted in June and mid-2016, which is being amended today by the SDS and supported by us, I proposed to Mrs Erman, the Secretary of State at the time, and asked the Committee on Finance that, however, due to the tax predictability which we legislators need to provide, calculate, calculate some informational calculation of the cadastral income for 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. Because it is not until 2020 that the cadastral income will reach the ceiling. Assuming that he has the same culture on agricultural surfaces all these years. You just have to make one assumption. And it's also about simplifying the calculation. Erman said at the time that the parameters and data for all of this exist and that this is technically possible, I know that it is possible. Since you cannot use the Institute of Parliamentary Initiative on the committee, I gave a written initiative to Minister Maramor and Minister Židan. The marble then gave way, and I didn't get an answer, and the minister of the Jews answered, but he sent me somewhere. He says: “The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food agrees with the conclusions on how important it is for farmers to be able to plan their business effectively.” Yes, that's why I asked or gave an initiative. “That is why we have supported the adoption of a law that will be so transparent that the agricultural economy will be able to obtain information about the height of the cadastral income.” And so on. But the calculation of this was not, in the answer I am reading, that was simply rejected. It is not right, ladies and gentlemen, that a government adopts a cadastral income law and then this base, this cadastral income actually increases, comes to the ceiling in 2020 and says - because in 2020 we will not be on the government. Of course not, because the elections have lost, even though they have now incorporated themselves into this government. And farmers will be on their feet in 2020, if not earlier. That is why I requested and gave this initiative out of some correctness, tax predictability, that farmers look ahead to what awaits them by 2020. Of course it wasn't. And I am now making this a worse future for the Slovenian farmer on the basis of the common European agricultural policy. Now what? Is this national council going to do anything now? Or will he just watch if there's a drought, if there's a hailstorm, if there's a cold? Are we gonna do something or not do anything?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The next one has the word of Dr. Darius Krajčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the floor. Catastrophe income cannot be higher or lower, but cadastral income is because it is calculated according to some methodology. The original cadastral income was calculated as the difference between income and material management costs. That was the original when he first stood up in this country. And one day, when he was installed, he revalued himself for some time in all history, and then for a very long time, nothing was correcting that value. And the values were really low. And that was probably the reason why the previous Parliament passed the law, which we are critical of today. I reiterate that it was not accepted by the government, and was adopted by Parliament. And so be it in the future. I hope that's clear to everyone. Today we have heard a lot of things about this law that has nothing to do with the law. About all the problems in agriculture, everything that is wrong in agriculture – and I agree that there are a lot of problems in agriculture. I know my constituency, I breathe it, if I may say so, I know it in my soul, I regularly go there and I come from there; we also want to make some progress there. But I tell you that the issue of cadastral income tax, as we are talking about today, is relatively small compared to all other problems in agriculture. And here I am almost sure that we agree with our colleagues on the opposition side. However, I must say that I believe in a Slovenian farmer despite all the problems associated with agriculture. I really believe in his populism, his vitality, his entrepreneurship, his ingenuity. The Slovenian farmer has always proved to be extremely resourceful in the circumstances in which he lived — and in socialism before — even in the present situation in which he is. And I have a lot of respect for his mind, so it's hard to say he's poor, because I don't think he's smart, and that's his biggest capital. It can also function very well in this society, in this applicable legislation, and in this situation of political parties, left-wing governments. As far as I am concerned, I will also work very hard for the Slovenian farmer in the future, but especially in respect of his intelligence, because it is his key capital. The tractor, the computer, everything else can be bought while the mind is hard to buy. All the proposed tax laws that have been tabled can be estimated with close to EUR billion, so much would have a financial impact. That's what I'm talking about. However, the Value Added Tax Act applies to all those who have been submitted. Once again, this is no way to run a household. Of course, I would not be able to work at home in such a way that we suddenly lose our income, and we will have the same standard as before. It's not working. It is simply necessary to provide resources. When we talk about taxes and I am sure that our taxpayers, citizens understand very well that this is not just a game, in terms of some infinite ease, but here we should always have thorough reflection. That is why I am waiting, once again, for this government to come, I hope next year, with some idea of a complete tax restructuring. Only when the matter is fully dealt with can we also correct it, change it left, right, little up, little down, adapt the best to Slovenian citizens, the needs of the Slovenian social state. Cutting in with partial solutions to taxpayers is not ideal for the functioning of the country. And I will give everything for this country, because it is the only one we have, no one else; so we must also respect it in a way that we act in terms of its stability. And what are the other finances as one of the most important pillars of the stability of the country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Franz Kramar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In fact, I am obliged to call because I come from a rural area where agriculture is one of the most important industries. I can say that we are fortunate that in our places people still insist on farming, mastering, livestock farming and forest management. Why the woods? Because here I'm going to focus on the cadastral income from the forest. In our places, in the last year and a half, the tentacles destroyed huge amounts of wood. Some farmers have lost all their assets and people would expect the country to respond to this national disaster. I've asked the secretary several times to start talking about it. These people didn't get any help. But what Mr Krajčič said is that they now have money as a furnace, nicely put. You should be aware that the wood on the market attacked by the lugadar is 50 % less valuable or the buying-in price of this wood is 50 percent less than the market price of this wood. Some people have lost the next 50 years of the forest, in which, if they are lucky and if this forest is afforested, they can grow in 50 years a new forest, a new land from which they can draw. Over the past 50 years, this forest will be useless and owners will continue to pay cadastral income, regardless of the fact that income is not from this title. It is also true that cadastral income is partly the income of municipalities. This revenue of municipalities was used for maintenance of forest roads. In the congregation from which I come, these roads are 42 kilometers away and every year it was necessary to devote all the cadastral income to sustain these roads and to be normally managed by the forest. Therefore, I think it is important for the farmer to respect that he insists on his land, to be very careful when taxing, to consider whether the increased rates are being paid; or whether these increased rates will lead to people leaving their farms and moving to cities. What that means for a natural landscape, we know. This natural landscape will heal over the years, and also those coming from tourist municipalities, we are aware of the importance that agriculture has for tourism. And I think that's where you have to think. The forest is basically a bank for every farmer. And he can draw from this bank if that's normal. However, if there is a natural disaster, it is also undermined by the bank, and in such cases its existence on these farms is significantly more difficult than it would have been. I therefore appeal from this city to the Minister of Agriculture to consider having people affected in the last period by the bulwark listen and try to help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Now Mr Tomaž Lisec, as the last word, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u121	Thanks again for saying that. I must say that, after my last implementation, I will be a little easier to complete with matters under this law, because there is obviously a few more healthy farmers' minds and knowledge from practice in the coalition parliamentary benches on the issue of agriculture, including this law. I hope that it will not only remain in words, but also in actions, that is to say in support of this law. I have to say that I haven't received a proposal in a long time, and in my previous term, I've had just some laws, as many electronic messages as I've received today. Right now, a gentleman from Bogojina made a comparison between a farmer in 1992 and a farmer, and he probably had a lot of them, in 2018. And I will probably continue the story, as Mr Krajčič said, that the farmer is resourceful and smart. If I send you an article from this gentleman, it is likely that this ingenuity and intelligence will go away so that the gentleman or his son will stop farming as he wrote, and will leave farming and go elsewhere because of the tax burdens and bureaucracy. If this is the wish of this coalition, then have such a coalition, but not at the expense of Slovenian farmers. And that's why I'm even more scared because we're barely halfway up the Cadastrian revenue, and you say - everything's gonna be great. Even now, people have, in addition to all the tax, bureaucratic obstacles, not to mention natural disasters again, the problem with this 55% payment of cadastral income. What will happen only in 2020 when 100% is one more time. Madam Secretary of State said that the principle of the fairness of this government would be such that farmers on the other hand will be paid in small amounts, which is called revenue, so that this coalition and this government can share only with dedicated people. Your Honor, you used to say this was a partial solution. I am afraid of your systemic solution because, in what Mr Krajčič said and what the Slovenian Press Agency has previously published, there is a clear intention of who will be in the context of the tax restructuring on wallpaper – farmers, craftsmen and economists. And we can expect a catastrophic picture in 2020. Traders and economists abroad, and Slovenian farmers without working surfaces, because this well-paid business will no longer go away. For a long time, except for the last speaker, I have experienced so many bad words at the expense of a Slovenian farmer who is obviously resourceful and smart. This government, however, is doing everything in order to destroy the Slovenian farmer despite his ingenuity and despite his intelligence. Therefore, before 2019, our proposal for a law was introduced into the parliamentary procedure to try to encourage more interest in this coalition, especially more empathy for Slovenian farmers, but there may be more optimism in this team of six government parties that a Slovenian farmer should be supported and not imposed on him. And once again, the cadastral income is for the Alpha farmer, everything else goes down after that because the cadastral income has an impact on income and on public funds. And that's why we were hoping that this coalition machine would be different from the previous one. But apparently this coalition has picked up the same tone, the same pace as the previous one. Representatives in the government, in the ministries, write an opinion on why they are against, and they are against it for only one reason – because he is the wrong proposer. Dear people, when you go to Slovenian farmers this weekend, tell them that you supported their slow extinction, which will be the most brutal in 2020.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u122	Thank you very much. This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 25th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. Period of the day, it's on the motion to stop the authentic explanation 120, 121. IN 122. ARTICLE OF THE ORGANISATION AND FINANCING LEGISLATION AND EDUCATION LAW. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was submitted to the Council of State for consideration. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, as a parent working body, proposes to the National Assembly that it rejects the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation. In order to present the proposal to the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mag. Branislav Rajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, everyone! At its 36th urgent meeting, on 5 April 2018, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth considered the Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Articles 120, 121 and 122 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education submitted to the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia. In its presentation of the opinion, the representative of the Legislature stressed that the adoption of an authentic interpretation was not necessary. The problem of the interpretation of working time and work obligations of teachers and other professional workers in primary and secondary education, as highlighted by the applicant, is further regulated by the amendments and additions to the collective agreement on education and education activities in the Republic of Slovenia. However, the content of the articles under consideration by the ZOFVI have already been directly agreed upon by the Government and trade unions in the field of education and education, which use the articles in practice, since they are its addressees. On 7 November 2018, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth at its 2nd regular session, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 42 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as a mother's work for the consideration of the Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation, only appointed the rapporteur to present the report of 5 April 2018 at the present meeting of the National Assembly. The procedure with the proposal for an act continued on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 154 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, since the mother labour body had already completed the examination of the act and had proposed, at the end of the hearing, that, on the basis of Article 151 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the adoption of an authentic interpretation should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u124	Thank you very much! I give the floor to Mr Branimir Strukl, the representative of the Council of State as the proposer of the Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation, to present my position on the proposal of the working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u125	Thank you, Mr. President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Although I am somewhat in a strange role, I must properly present the proposal of the Council of State, which, as you know, has been formulated in the previous composition. My colleague Dr Christmas was the main initiator of this proposal. This is simply a dilemma that has emerged in the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which is said to be a key law on the basis of the functioning of our educational system, namely the question of what is the link between the labour obligation, which is defined by the Labour Relations Act as for all other employees in that country, and a specific provision that complements the requirement for full employment, which is a learning obligation. The only teachers in this country have two conditions that must be met that someone is fully employed. This is a learning obligation which differs in primary, secondary schools according to the type of teaching practice, practice, theory, whatever, and this ratio to full-time 40 hours. Therefore, the Council of State has proposed that the three articles defining this – 120, 121 and 122 of the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education – be clarified in a way that would state that the key task of teachers is their teaching obligation. All the tasks defined in Article 119 of the Law are the result of this fundamental work, a fundamental mission, and therefore there is no need for these additional works to be specified in detail. This was the essence of this interpretation proposed by the State Council as an authentic explanation. This decision came at a time when the debate on the 40-hour presence at the teaching post was very current in our country. Let me just point out that in Europe, there is no mandatory presence in the workplace for 40 hours, except Bulgaria, because Bulgarian teachers had to work extra outside the school and then they were given this presence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u126	Thank you very much. To explain my position, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Martini Vuk, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr President, honourable Members and Members. It is therefore a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Articles 120, 121 and 122 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, i.e. those articles where this interpretation should specify more precisely the permitted weekly level of learning obligation for individual categories of teachers, or by which, as has already been said, a mandatory presence or how to measure an 8-hour teacher worker should be determined. This initiative or this proposal was also linked to the Court of Auditors’ audit report of 20 January 2016. This audit report gives rise to the duty of precise time-limits for the definition of the overall work obligation of teachers. And precisely that, a more precise time frame for the definition of teachers' work obligations was achieved and agreed with the amendments and additions to the collective agreement on education and education activities in the Republic of Slovenia on 25 August 2017. With effect from 1 September 2018, this year's beginning of the school year, these changes apply and the regulation of working time and work obligations of teachers and other professionals in primary and secondary education is sufficiently regulated so that the proposal for an authentic interpretation is no longer necessary. This was therefore agreed by the amendment of the collective agreement agreed upon by the Government and representative unions in the field of education and education. In this way, we have simplified the different interpretations of the Articles of the ZOFVI and set out a clear regulatory framework for working time and the work obligations of teachers. The lack of interpretation in its opinion is also recalled by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. With regard to one of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also proposes to the National Assembly that it reject the proposal for an authentic interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Mag. Branislav Rajic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u129	Once again, a good day to all. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre of the proposal for authentic interpretation of Articles 120, 121 and 122 of the current law on the organisation and financing of education and education submitted to the Council of State in 2017, we did not support the meeting of the parent committee in the previous term. Such a decision was mainly based on objective reasons related to the adoption of amendments and the completion of a collective agreement on education and education activities in the Republic of Slovenia. After more than two decades, clear frameworks for the teacher’s work have been drawn up. An issue has been addressed, which has been poorly defined for many years, as the Court of Auditors also pointed out in its audit report. The Council of State itself pointed out in the proposed text that the requirements for a precise definition of the teacher's work had already appeared towards the end of the 1970s and were still valid today. The teacher’s work is specific and cannot be uniformly classified in either a standard 8-hour or a 40-hour workshop. With this in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we agree. This is also directly followed by a revised collective agreement which duly recognises the specificity of teaching work. The basic objective is thus achieved – integrated, clear and uniform regulation of the working time of teachers in Slovenian schools is ensured at systemic level. This ended years of long-standing dissatisfaction with teaching workers, as it is finally determined how to measure the working time and obligations of teachers in schools, so that this will be the same everywhere in the country and the same for everyone. The agreed definition of working time will also not be possible to change unilaterally, which is an important contribution to the legal safety of our teachers and teachers. Last but not least, this has also made an important move forward and upwards in terms of trust in the teaching professions, their reputation and the performance of their work. The new teacher’s working hours began with the current school year. As usual, some postpartum problems and uncertainties have arisen at the implementation level. Any new and even radical change can face initial problems in its implementation, for which it is important for all involved to address them from the outside. This is why we expect a serious commitment from both the department and trade union representatives to provide teachers and schools with all the necessary support to resolve open uncertainties. Since the provisions of Articles 120, 121 and 122 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education have already been directly agreed by the previous government and unions in the field of education and education, which our teachers and teachers, the amended regime, apply to everyday work, we will also vote today in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre that there is no need for an authentic explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Mrs Ludmila Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u131	Good-bye! The debate on the work and learning obligations of teachers has had a beard for a very long time. During certain periods of time, some pressure arises to make the teacher’s working hours more rigorous. These pressures occur first in those institutions where not only teachers but also teachers, therapists and others are employed. More specifically, it is called upon to prescribe compulsory eight-hour presence in the workplace for teachers. We also do not have a prescribed eight-hour worker, because the nature of our work is specific. Once we work, twice less, once we sit in Parliament late at night, the second time we are on the ground, attend events, even on Saturdays and Sundays we meet citizens or prepare for meetings and study laws. In Nova Slovenije we believe that the teaching profession in modern society is significantly different from other professions and is therefore recognised as special. The teaching profession involves more than teaching or working with students and students in the classroom. The work of the teacher shall also include direct and indirect preparation for the training, preparation and evaluation of written tasks, preparation and implementation of speaking hours, parental meetings, attendance and participation at conferences and lifelong education. Finally, a teacher also needs sufficient quality rest, since working with students or students is very difficult, and sometimes even psychologically very difficult. The teacher must always be, especially today, widely viewed, experienced, well-prepared, and highly multidisciplinary. All of this is necessary if we want a generation of students and students to be able to prepare for the adoption of 21st century competences. But when we think about education, which is an extremely important part of the school process and teaching work, we see a great need for additional teacher knowledge so that they can successfully solve the difficult and increasingly difficult educational problems of modern school. In some European countries they already feel a great shortage of teachers because this work is specific and all the more so than possible. Only those who feel the work of a teacher as their mission endure and can be successful teachers. For some, the working time of the teacher is also attractive, otherwise they would have left the profession long ago. The Government and the Legal and Legislative Service assess that, since the submission of the proposal for an authentic interpretation, the area has been adequately regulated by amendments and additions to the Collective Treaty for the Activities of Education and Education in the Republic of Slovenia. In New Slovenia, however, we propose that the competent ministry prepare as soon as possible a law on teachers, which will be able to enforce more appropriate and professional solutions. The current regime, when the position of teachers is linked to the Labour Relations Act, is no longer appropriate due to the specific characteristics of the teaching profession.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Lidija Dijak Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nicely greeted, fellows! Dear Government Representatives, State Council. In 2017, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia submitted a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Articles 120, 121 and 122 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which should also specify the level of permitted weekly learning obligations for individual categories of teachers. In the meantime, however, the amendments and additions to the collective agreement on education and education activities in the Republic of Slovenia, which entered into force on 26 August 2018 and entered into force on 1 September 2018, have also changed the arrangements for the working time and work obligations of teachers and other professional workers in primary and secondary education, so that the proposal for an authentic interpretation has now become unnecessary. The social partners have simplified the different interpretations of the legal articles in question and have also set a clear regulatory framework for working time and the work obligations of teachers as such. In cooperation with the unions, presentations were also held in the news, and the Ministry also provided additional guidance and guidance on the implementation of these. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly have also given an opinion that they do not support the adoption of an authentic interpretation. Therefore, according to all that has been said, despite the fact that Members of the List of Marjan Šarc did not at the time directly decide on the opinion adopted by the Committee in its previous composition in April 2018, as we have already heard today, we support the proposal of the LMŠ Group for a decision not to adopt an authentic interpretation of the above-mentioned Article of the Law on Organisation, Financing for Education and Education. Nevertheless, I would stress that today it is necessary to take into account that the teaching profession is different, that it is very difficult many times, and that it is necessary to have new, different competences than teachers once had. If teachers want to be successful, they also need different grips and all teachers in the country have to be supported here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The position of the SD Group will be presented by the mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished representative of the Council of State, nice greetings to all, honourable Members and Members! At the beginning of July last year, the Council of State submitted to the legislative procedure a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Articles 120, 121 and 122 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. The objective of the authentic interpretation was to determine more precisely the permitted weekly level of learning obligations for individual categories of teachers. As a reason for the submission and acceptance of the authentic interpretation, the applicant stated that it was also necessary for teachers to establish a mandatory eight-hour presence at work and the results of the audit report of the Court of Auditors of January 2016 which gave rise to the duty of precise time-limits to define the overall working obligations of teachers. The fact is, as has already been said, that the teaching profession is specific and that the teaching work has its own specialities. His work obligation does not in any way merely include teaching obligations, where we include teaching and other forms of work with students and students. The work obligation of the teacher also includes its preparation for education, correction and evaluation of tasks and other work necessary to ensure the smooth and quality implementation of the education programme. With effect from 1 September 2017, changes and additions to the collective agreement on education and education activities have been introduced, which have, by contrast, entered into force with September 2018, on the basis of which the regulation of working time and the work obligations of teachers and other professional workers in primary and secondary education has been sufficiently regulated. Social Democrats are pleased that the social partners have harmonised the different interpretations of these articles and the law in the new working arrangements of teachers, and have set a clear regulatory framework for the working time and work obligations of teachers. As a result, the proposed adoption of an authentic interpretation became unnecessary. On the basis of this, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth that the authentic interpretation of Articles 120, 121 and 122 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is not adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u136	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal of the home working body that the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation be not accepted, we will decide, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 25th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. On the contrary, this is the fifth report on the position of the Romani community in Slovenia. The report was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. In order to complement the explanation of the report, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags. Stanku Baluh, Director of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Nationality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u137	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We have before us the Fifth Report of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the situation of the Roma community, which has legal basis in the Law on the Roma Community and in the National Programme of Action for the period 2017-2021. The preparation of the fifth report was coordinated and led by the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Nationality. The report was also addressed in individual bodies in the National Assembly, and this report was confirmed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as well as by the government commission on Roma issues. The report alone consists of a central part as well as annexes. The main part of the report includes information on major activities such as the drafting of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Roma Community, the adoption and preparation of a national programme for Roma for the period 2017-2021, and the work of the Government Commission. In this central part is also a review of the fulfilment of the obligations of the competent ministries and government services, as well as information on the activities of the Council of the Roma Community of the Republic of Slovenia as the umbrella organisation of the Roma community in Slovenia and also a report on the self-government local communities where Roma live. The Annexes follow a more detailed report on the implementation of the National Programme of Action for 2017, information on co-financing in the field of the Roma community and a review of the adopted detailed sectoral programmes and measures where Roma live. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to touch in this central part on the preparation of the National Programme of Action 2017-2021, which, in addition to the problems of baselines and planned measures, also includes the envisaged system for monitoring the implementation of these measures, which is further strengthened and focused on monitoring the impact of the measures in the local community compared to the previous period. The whole process of preparing a national action programme has involved the Roma community through its representatives, as has been the case in the past. An interested public also took part in this work. As a second part, it would also touch on the preparation, amendment and completion of the Roma Community Act, which was also addressed twice by the Council of the Roma Community and was also under public treatment, as confirmed by the Government's Commission for the Protection of the Roma Community. Both proposals were also unanimously adopted and confirmed. The Act was adopted by the Government in March 2018 and forwarded to the National Assembly. Regrettably, however, the proposal for a law was not dealt with due to the merger of the Government and the failure of the Council of State. Let me touch only some of the effects brought by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Roma Community. In fact, this remedys some of the shortcomings of the current Roma Community Act; it is the composition of a umbrella organisation of the Roma community, such as the Council of the Roma Community of the Republic of Slovenia; then it is a major emphasis on regulating the living situation of the Roma community. In addition, the proposal for a law strengthens cross-cutting cooperation, as well as the implementation of the specific measures necessary to raise the social inclusion of members of the Roma community, the necessary prerequisite for their integration into Slovenian society. Your Honor! The Roma community is a constitutionally protected minority. The Roma who are among us and live with us are a vulnerable group and live in our midst. I have personally been following this subject for many years, and I can say that sometimes everything looks too official and there is no progress. I can assure in this light that it is a process and progress from everyday life is also visible. I can confirm this personally, and I can guarantee that. Of course, I would like the Roma community to be more active in this regard, so that the Roma community can also open up and trust us that we want to help them sincerely with the measures we have put forward. I say, the Roma community as a whole. Because sometimes certain individuals can be an element that hides itself in the pursuit of self-interest at the expense of this poor majority, which, in my opinion, is so politically and professionally unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The report was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as a parent working body and prepared a proposal for a recommendation. I give the floor to a member of Predrag Bakovic for presentation of the report of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u139	President, thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 1st meeting. The fifth report on the situation of the Roma community in Slovenia, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly pursuant to Article 4, paragraph 4, of the Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia and published on the websites of the National Assembly, was addressed by the Fifth Report on the situation of the Roma Community in Slovenia. In the introductory presentation of the report, the Director of the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the Nationality of Mag. Stanko Baluh said that the Office coordinated the preparation of a report prepared in accordance with the baselines, as confirmed by the Government Commission in November 2017 on the basis of the messages received, the contributions received by the Office from individual ministries and from individual local communities, as well as by the Council of the Roma Community, cover activities in various fields. He said the Bureau found that it was a very slow defect in certain segments. He stressed that all projects, or all the measures to be implemented, also include the Roma community through representatives at both national and local level. A representative of the Council of State, Councilwoman Bojana Potočan, said that the Commission had made a positive statement on the work of the Office for State regulation at the time of hearing the report. The Commission has highlighted the problems that arise in some environments where Roma from other backgrounds live in existing Roma Roma settlements, and this leads to tensions. The Beltinci Congregation was mentioned. In this regard, she stressed the role of the Office and the local communities in solving these problems. The Commission stressed the importance of the new Roma Community Act, which defined an additional measure, for example in the area of social, education, employment and the definition of specific rights which are linked to language and culture and which are based on international standards and minority rights. In addition, it stressed the importance of the continued operation of the Interdepartmental Working Group to address the spatial problem of Roma. The President of the Union of Roma Slovenia, Jožek Horvat Muc, said that the situation of Roma has improved in certain areas, although it is not fully satisfied with the effects and results. He felt that there was often too little political will both at the state level and at the local level. He stressed that there are some local communities that, regardless of whether there is a national Roma programme or whether there are laws on Roma, or whether there are 15 regional Roma laws, are very involved, work very hard for and listen to the Roma community. Sadly, though, some congregations, regardless of all the acts adopted, do not have any obedience. With regard to employment, he considered that projects and programmes could be more effective as the current project possibilities for employment of the Roma community do not have long-term effects. The president of the Forum of Roma Councilors of Slovenia, Darko Rudas, felt that the overall situation of the Roma community in Slovenia was low, and the reputation of Roma in society was low, while the situation of the Roma issue was improving. He highlighted movements in the field of education, where preschool education is becoming increasingly important. He said that the Forum of Roma Councilors is most concerned about the bivanian situation in municipalities where the local community does not include Roma settlements in its establishment plan. In his view, Roma must not be maintained through social transfers, but through economic assistance programmes that will help them to become more economically independent. Only in this way can Roma from passive recipients of services assume the role of active search engines. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Martina Vuk, stressed that education is a key that can lead people out of poverty, social exclusion, integrate them into the community and enable them to have a better future. In this direction, it highlights two basic guidelines of the Ministry, namely language learning and integration. As a result, strong emphasis is placed on the inclusion of Roma children in kindergartens, as well as the establishment of specific short-term programmes implemented in the last year of the established multi-purpose Roma centres. As very important, it highlighted the increase in the number of Roma assistants, their education and training. It highlighted the considerable progress made by Roma in obtaining the so-called seventh level of education. The debate was held by the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group in specific cases from the local environment on the issue of security conditions in Roma settlements and the fact that many Roma children are still not sent to school. It was pointed out that Roma must assume the same responsibility in society as other citizens. The coalition's delegations and the Levica parties stressed that the solution to the Roma problem is an extremely complex one and highlighted the lack of progress made in the areas of education, employment, living conditions and security in recent years. They highlighted the large differences in how individual municipalities approach the solution to the Roma problem and, as a result, many Roma still live without water and other basic necessities of life. They Warned Still [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u140	Your time is running out.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u141	Yeah, okay. Thank you. The Committee took note of the Fifth Report on the situation of the Roma community in Slovenia, and then, on a proposal from the leftist Group, Željk Cigler, on the basis of Article 41(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, adopted the following decision by 9 votes and 1 against: The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Administration proposes that the Fifth Report on the situation of the Roma Community in Slovenia, EPA 45-VIII, be considered at the meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u142	Thank you very much! We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Left, Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u143	Dear Members, Members, Presidents, Representatives and Representative of the Government! Today we are considering a report on the situation of the Roma community. Even though this is the fifth report, this is the first time we have considered it at a meeting of the National Assembly. This is most likely due to one political opportunism when, for the first time, the right hand over the Roma community is driven by right-wing populism as well as other minorities. According to their propaganda, it is only another group of people who live at the expense of the rest, as is the case with foreigners, refugees, migrants deleted and all others who are most frequently violated human rights in our Republic of Slovenia. Central parties, on the other hand, often do not resist the discursion of the right or can not put themselves on the side of the right, so they prefer to avoid the debate. They are also often subject to the fact that the support of the Roma community and others at the margins of society to oppressed groups or workers in Slovenia does not bring political points. Just to cut through the permanent scratch, we have proposed in Levica that the situation of the Roma community be discussed at a meeting of the National Assembly. To resist the spread of the right-wing fear and hatred and to convince the coalition that the situation of Roma communities and our Roma fellow citizens must be improved. We have already proposed some key solutions in the previous mandate with amendments to the roof law, but the then coalition opposed it. We certainly hope that this mandate will be different. That changes to the law are urgently necessary, we can also conclude with the reading of periodic reports. The situation of the Roma community in Slovenia is poor. Problems remain the same year after year, we know where the problems are, we know how to solve them. Still, nothing happens. The Government and the National Assembly do not provide adequate legislative changes, the State does not provide sufficient resources and some municipalities are working and carrying out their tasks, and others are not even trying. Many projects, programmes, measures aimed at improving the situation of the Roma community are under way, according to the report on the ground. We have different projects and programmes in the field of regulating the living situation, greater involvement in education and raising educational levels to achieve greater employability and could also list, but their implementation is left to various organisations whose existence depends on the resources of the State or the European community and the success of the funds obtained in public calls. As a result, the situation improves tremendously slowly, sometimes not at all, or even worse. In view of the above, we should all be aware, together, that we will improve the situation with our fire-fighting actions. In the long run, we'll probably only make it worse. You can’t just face serious diseases with aspirin. An integrated approach with a long-term vision is needed. At the same time, of course, the question arises where we will take the money. And that's mostly the point where everything stops. The belief that there is no money for systemic, long-term and structural measures is our lie. Maintained status quo in the long term requires inappropriately more resources than the sudden elimination of all the biggest problems we face for free and we have been facing for years and years. Progress in the situation of the Roma community would be significantly better than that presented in the report. To that end, we have been able to find out already last week when we discussed the Ombudsman's annual report. Of course, the government will not recognise that it has done too little to live in non-life conditions without water, electricity, utilities, basic necessities of life, being pushed into a cycle of poverty or on the edge of society and being discriminated against, even though all of this is a prerequisite for integration into the educational system, integration into society and the possibility of employment. A large part of the Roma community is sentenced to a vicious cycle of poverty, most of which is not a way out, because of its lack of access to basic necessities of life. Not for their children, either. That the state has done too little is a fact. Last but not least, the Council of Europe warned us in February this year that the Government should work harder to improve the situation of Roma. He invited us to adopt measures, including efforts to combat hate speech. The same were the conclusions of the Commission of the Council of Europe on Human Rights, which visited March 2017. The Roma community enjoys special protection at constitutional level, has a special law on the Roma community, many dedications, round tables, projects, programmes. But this difference between the theory and that written on paper and practice in the Republic of Slovenia, the social state, is enormous. By looking at various parts of the country, the situation of Roma communities from the congregation to the congregation is incomparable. There are congregations that carry out all or most of the tasks assigned to them by law and are congregations that simply ignore legal requirements. We have legalised communally equipped Roma settlements and we have settlements that, despite promises and commitments, remain illegal, municipally unregulated and that do not even meet the basic conditions for a person's decent life. We have cases of land being sold together with members of the Roma community who have been living on land for more than ten years. In some cases, even municipalities sell them, and we also have cases where the municipalities have made it possible to buy the land of the Roma who reside on them and allow them to have community arrangements, water connections, electricity, utilities. Where these basic conditions are met, children are included in kindergarten, in primary school, the conditions for employment, adult education are met. It is clear, therefore, that for the unregulated situation, maintaining the status quo and for years the recurring problems of the Roma community are not the fault of ignorance or the financial and economic picture in the country, it is solely the lack of political will. We know exactly where the problems are, and we know exactly what solutions are urgently needed, but we have been waiting for changes for seven years. In Levika, we certainly expect today's debate to be constructive; the government should take it as a basis for making the necessary changes as soon as possible. In Levica, we have already prepared a law that solves an essential part of the problems, coordinated it in the previous mandate, coordinated it with the mayors of local communities and representatives of the Roma community. It therefore provides a good basis for finally taking a concrete step towards improving the situation of the Roma community, our fellow citizens. And that is exactly what we are proposing with today's recommendation. We propose that the Government take immediate action to improve the situation of the Roma community in Slovenia and that, as soon as possible, in cooperation with representatives of the Roma community, representatives of local communities and other stakeholders prepare appropriate amendments to the Law on the Roma Community. This does not mean, of course, the changes made by the Government of Mir Cerar just before leaving. The proposal was bad, and it would mean a step back. The government should therefore come up with a new proposal, a proposal for which the amendments proposed in Levica must also be based. The last time we discussed this issue, also when the Ombudsman's report was being considered, it was also exposed, and this is especially true today because, in my debate, a fellow Member Anja Bah Žibert's colleague correctly called and said not only to look at what was going on in Romani settlements, but also in the outskirts of Roma settlements. These are the people who live on the edge. In Levika, we are aware that legal and communal irregularities in Roma settlements threaten the realization of human and special rights of Roma communities or their members, on the one hand, but also the realization of human rights and fundamental freedoms of citizens living around such Roma settlements on the other. Thus, one and the other may rightly feel affected both in their dignity, personal rights, property rights, equality before the law and, last but not least, in their trust in the rule of law. I absolutely agree that together we will visit and visit Roma settlements or the inhabitants of Roma settlements, and in this way Levica and SDS together contribute to the start of the rights of the Roma community in Slovenia as soon as possible and in full compliance with the law and the Constitution. And the last thing I'd say is that I end up with some cynical optimism. The decision of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Hudorovič and Novak and others against Slovenia remains an important unknown in the equation, whose complainant from the Roma settlement Gorič Vas in Ribnica or Dobroška Vas in the municipality of Škocjan also raises problems regarding drinking water and sanitation. Any decision taken by the European Court of Human Rights in this matter will be clear that it will have an important impact on the resolution of the Roma problem in this country. And this is not only in the two settlements mentioned above, but also directly in others. I ask the National Assembly whether we are able to regulate ourselves the situation, the rights of our Roma fellow citizens, or whether we must wait for the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights as it did in the case of deleted persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u145	Thank you very much for the word, Mr President-in-Office. I would expect from you, given that you are the one who is in charge of this session and you must also listen carefully to what someone also says in the parliamentary positions to react immediately when the gentleman in his position said that the right hand is spreading fear and hatred in the event of a Roma question. I won't allow it, and I'll tell you why. This is because in 2007 Janša was the government that introduced the umbrella law on the Roma community. It was a law that fully addressed the Roma issue. I must say that at the time, both the Roma Union of Slovenia and the Roma community joined. Of course, some additional questions have arisen and we want to resolve them today. However, there is a need to weigh between rights and duties. But I don't agree that in this way, we just generally label someone to spread hatred. Last but not least, Mr President, in my previous term as President of the Commission on Human Rights, I have convened several meetings on this subject, and the Roma population has been very grateful to me, and all those who have worked in this area that we have nevertheless established a civilised dialogue with the wider community, including those facing problems with the Roma population, that we have indeed established a necessary dialogue on both sides. It's just so average to say that someone is spreading hatred just because, I don't know, it's modern because it's nice to hear, it's unacceptable. It's really unacceptable. I don't allow it anymore. As a representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party and as Eva Irgle, I don't spread hatred, I don't act hostilely, I don't use hate speech, and I just don't allow it again. And I ask you to protect me and my fellow Members, and to prevent such discussions immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u146	Thank you so much for your recommendation, and believe me, I didn't listen and I'll stop him another time. I agree with you. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u147	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The existing Law on the Roma Community, adopted in 2007, is the first regulation to fully regulate the situation and rights of Roma and Roma communities in Slovenia. The Roma community, or at least most of their associations, recognises that since 2007, when the area of Roma communities has been regulated, there has been considerable progress in integrating Roma into local environments and their integration into public and political life. Here we stress that we are facing markedly different successes in regulating these rights in various parts of Slovenia. In Prekmurje, Roma co-existence with the local population is largely non-problem, while in Dolenjska there are still tensions, the issue of living conditions in Roma settlements, in particular the provision of basic water and electricity supplies, is also acute. The National Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the Roma period 2017-2021 further foresees an improvement in the situation. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the existing legal basis for regulating the Roma problem is basically appropriate. Of course, there have been some shortcomings in the implementation of the law, which will need to be addressed in the future, but with due thought and prior coordination with the representatives of the Roma community. The proposal for a new Law on the Roma Community, adopted by the Government of Mira Cerar on 1 March this year and not addressed by the National Assembly because of its resignation, has not been presented, in our opinion, by the National Assembly. We are therefore convinced that even more than amending the law, we need to do more in implementing the existing law. Of course, sufficient financial resources and the right will are needed for these purposes. Every year, too little money is allocated to this area in the state budget. Overcoming much of this burden to the costs of local communities, as proposed by the Government this year, is unacceptable in the existing Community funding system and this additional burden could simply not be borne by the municipality. The potential for additional funding in New Slovenia is seen in the better use of European funds in particular in the field of education and culture, as well as in the area of social entrepreneurship, which is one of the possibilities for increasing the employment rate of Roma. However, for this purpose, it is also necessary to provide a certain amount of own resources, which individual Roma organisations, associations and communities, which are numerous and relaxed, do not have enough, at least not for larger projects. The possibilities will have to be sought by Roma organisations in connection and concerting. We do not see a solution in continuous social transfers that do not stimulate Roma employment. Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we support all efforts to regulate the Roma problem, but in a way that takes into account the interests of all stakeholders, these are representatives of the Roma community, local communities, competent state institutions from various fields: education, culture, environment, employment, social. There is no way, however, that we can attach certain attempts to provide the Roma community with adequate housing conditions or even more unacceptable proposals to introduce a moratorium on the lands on which the Roma reside. The exact misnomer of the concept of property rights. Of course, the Government's proposal for today's recommendation is welcome, and the question is what changes will be made to the National Assembly and when. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposal for recommendations.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u148	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u149	Thank you, Vice President. Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The report on the situation of the Roma community in Slovenia was produced under the auspices of the Government Office for Nationality. The basis for the preparation of the report is the Roma Community Act in the Republic of Slovenia and the National Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the Roma period 2017-2021. Such a report shall include information on the implementation of the obligations under the law and reporting on the implementation of the national programme and shall also include an overview of the implementation of the activities by department and government services. On the basis of the report, it can be found that a large proportion of many stakeholders have been made at both local and national level. The situation of the Roma community is improving in some areas, but of course progress is not as pronounced as you would like it to be. Here, I should also remind you of the Ombudsman's warnings and of the fact that in all the years since we have the Ombudsman's Institute in Slovenia, there has been no report that does not contain recommendations related to discrimination against the Roma community. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that we can not only assign responsibilities to one party but thus to the authorities of the state and local level on the one hand and to the Roma community on the other. Only through effective participation of all stakeholders will we make rapid progress. In some areas progress is very slow, for example in the areas of education, employment and regulation of the living situation. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that education of the Roma population is extremely important. Better education will make employment easier and thus improve social status and social inclusion. We therefore support the direction of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport that it must work in this area before children enter school. It is important that as many Roma children as possible are included in kindergartens, because they would learn Slovenian language well before entering school, which would, of course, make monitoring of the school process significantly easier for them. In preparation is a change in the Roma education and education strategy in the Republic of Slovenia and in the Desus Group, we believe it will help improve the situation in this area. On the other hand, progress has already been seen in achieving a high level of education, which also shows that highly educated Roma are joining together in their academic club. We therefore hope that they will be better integrated into the work process and society in general. However, there are also living conditions, some Roma settlements still without water and electricity, but progress has also been seen in this area. In many Roma settlements, appropriate infrastructure has already been regulated in the past periods, but of course there are differences between regions. More progress is seen, for example, in the Roma group living in Prekmurje and smaller in Dolenjska and White Krajina. With regard to the proposed recommendation, I should also say that in the Desus Group we expect to receive a proposal for a new Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia as soon as possible. As we all know, a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia has already been tabled in the previous legislative procedure and has not been considered since the end of the mandate. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the amendment of the law must be adopted as soon as possible, in particular because substantial changes will be adopted, including in the composition of the umbrella organisation of the Roma Community, the Council of the Roma Community of the Republic of Slovenia, while at the same time addressing the shortcomings of the current provisions of Article 5 of the Law relating to the regulation of the living conditions. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that by engaging all stakeholders at both local and national level, as well as representatives of the Roma community, substantial improvements and faster progress are possible in all areas. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a recommendation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u151	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear guests, respectable Mr. Mag. Baluh, respectable colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, I welcome the consideration of the Fifth Report on the situation of the Roma community, particularly because they themselves wanted to have this presentation. I also think that only in the open debate and in the exchange of views can we take a step forward. But in doing so, we must be honest and honest, not only to highlight the achievements and examples of those areas in Slovenia where there are no major problems with Roma, and to praise the professional services and individuals who live on behalf of the Roma and their budgets. If we look at documents that are half a century or more old, we can see that in some areas where Roma live, we have not made significant progress in their integration into the community of all citizens. Before continuing, I have to correct the information in the report or its Annex 4, since the Municipality of Krško, from which I come, adopted a strategy for the resolution of the Roma problem in the Municipality of Krško for the period 2018-2022. Although somewhat delayed with a formal view, it is in fact a congregation that has done a great deal in recent years to resolve the Roma issue. Nevertheless, this document shows pessimism and powerlessness, which are very talkative and also important for our debate. It shows that two legalized settlements with access to drinking water, electricity, organized preschool education in the village itself have been established in the municipality of Krško and, as the municipality warns, Roma who live in improvised dwellings producing electricity from aggregates, while drinking water is available from a joint tanker, where water is supplied by the municipality with fire-fighting tanks. As noted in the congregation, the position of individuals within the Roma community is very different in terms of the property they own, as well as in terms of the attitude towards the environment and other members of their community, especially women and children. However, they share that they are uneducated or under-educated, usually an unfinished primary school, mostly unemployed and recipients of social transfers. Adolescents face a particular problem at a time when they lose their right to primary school. They rarely graduate from primary school and continue their education in high school. It is a population that is left to itself, parental control is minimal. Young people fall under the influence of older people who carry out activities at the crime border. In this way, adolescents also become uncontrollable and unpredictable. Their basic values are money, cars, and cell phones. This is what the document, which was adopted on the municipal council in Kršek about a month ago, states that it is fresh, up-to-date information that is spoken differently from what the Government and its services seem to think. There is also a record of problems and inconsistencies in the report on page 28, where positive examples include the Municipality of Kočevje and the Municipality of Krško. In the case of two non-legalisation settlements, this has so far sought to help three families move into non-profit housing. One family, however, strives to obtain an apartment house in one of the villages. The municipality attempted to present a similar model for the settlement of the housing situation to the State and applied for a public tender by the Ministry of Economy, Development and Technology in 2016, but without success, since such an approach was not among the eligible objectives of co-financing under this call. In the Slovenian National Party, we therefore believe that the policies and programmes so far to address the Roma problem have not been successful where they are most needed, despite the considerable financial resources invested, because there is no significant change so far and, in particular, because the responsible do not understand or do not want to understand the problem on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u153	Thank you for your word. President, let me answer my colleagues from the Left. In my position, I'm not going to be as controversial as you are. It's time for this debate. I will, however, present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party. First, a few words about the government of Mira Cerar, because it was responsible and responsible for preparing reports for the past four years on the situation of the Roma community in Slovenia. The Law on the Roma Community in the Replica of Slovenia is clear. It requires the Government to report to the National Assembly once a year on the implementation of the obligations set out in that law. Therefore, on the spot, the issue of what the Government was doing in 2015 and 2016 when it asked about the issue of the Roma problem or the implementation of the legal provisions, since it did not prepare the reports. The government expects local communities and citizens of Slovenia, on the one hand, to respect the law and, on the other hand, simply ignore it. There are still important questions about both the lives of the Roma and the rest of the population. Today we are discussing the fifth report on the situation of the Roma community in Slovenia, which is being considered by the assembly today in addition to the committee responsible. Those who have been devoted to these reports in the past, and not only this time, can find with concern that there is virtually no significant and urgent progress in the area of Roma issues. We still revolve around the same issues and problems. Given that we have earmarked a good €67 million over the last ten years to address the Roma problem, the situation in this area should be significantly better. Therefore, more than justly, we can all ask ourselves together why all these millions have been used. I have warned several times, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, that we need, first of all, basic statistics, which we still do not have today, to deal successfully with the Roma problem. Only in this way will we be able to identify and assess the effects of individual projects and development in specific areas that remain the most problematic. It is education, employment, spatial arrangements and also a security issue. I will say more about this, of course, later in the debate. To reflect on the continuation of today's debate, however, the following question is raised: who does the report serve, where there is not a single comparative table on the situation and progress in the area of Roma issues? Not a single table! Let me conclude this position with a key message. It is not enough to address the Roma issue successfully to talk only about the rights of the Roma community. It is also necessary to talk about the duties of the Roma and their awareness that we are all equal before the law. In doing so, responsibility is fundamental. This is the only way their integration will really work.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u154	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc, will be presented by Karl Urh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u155	All in attendance, all in attendance! There are major social differences between Roma groups or communities in Slovenia, based mainly on the circumstances and conditions in which these groups live, as well as on their cultural practices and acceptances in the local environment. Most of the time, there are strong stereotypes and prejudices. On average, the socio-economic situation of the Roma population is better in Prekmurje than in Dolenjska, Posavje and Bela Krajina, or the rest of the environment where they live. Differences in socio-economic status, lifestyles, education, employment, religious affiliations and jokes and habits are also great among so-called non-traditionally populated members and members of the Roma community, who mostly live in larger cities, such as Ljubljana, Maribor, Celje, Velenje, Jesenice. On average, we place the Roma population in the lowest social strata characterised by poverty. Although the Roma community is also internally divided, in most cases the social status of the Roma population remains significantly lower than the social status of the majority population. The unfavourable socio-economic situation of members of the Roma community is linked to poverty, low levels of education, high levels of unemployment, inadequate living conditions, poor health and prejudice, and stereotypes about the Roma. These negative factors, the causes and consequences of which are closely linked and intertwined, create a closed cycle of exclusion from which members and members of the Roma community themselves cannot or are very difficult to get out. As a result, they do not have social power, are outside the event, are permanently marginalized and dependent on social assistance. They are also unrelated, fragmented by settlements and largely unorganized or organised by the local Roma community, which is mostly limited to individual settlements, but can be connected by families from several settlements and regions. Therefore, it often happens that those who have begun to adopt more advanced standards and rules are incapacitated in their own environment. When addressed, they are seen as a problem that needs to be addressed and not solved. These problems and the necessary measures may be integration, follow-up and foreign development, depending on the needs of the region. The differences are not only between regions, but also between so-called local communities in the region or even between settlements or parts of settlements within one local community. For these reasons, action at local level is essential in order to make progress in this area, in addition to government measures, and the actual situation in a particular environment is a key starting point. In the List of Marjan Šarca we welcome the work carried out by the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has taken place in recent years and has allowed for key changes and additions in the Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia. The law on the Roma community, which was somehow interrupted by the resignation of the former government, should be adopted. The new Roma Community Act will provide key solutions to improve the situation of the Roma community. We also welcome the adoption of the National Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2017-2021, which has set important guidelines in various areas that are key to the Roma community in Slovenia. In the field of education, there is a positive increase in the early integration of Roma children into the education system. In doing so, the concern of the individual, the Union of Roma Slovenia, and also of the President, who pointed out that the transfer of Roma children to schools with an adapted programme has increased. An increase in Roma involvement in active employment policies is noted. Projects were implemented within the framework of strategies and resolutions to improve the situation of Roma in the labour market. These projects concerned successful entry into the labour market, such as the Roma House, and the promotion of social entrepreneurship in the context of the establishment of three social enterprises. However, we cannot agree with the statement made by the President of the Union of Roma Slovenia that projects and project possibilities for employment of the Roma community do not have the conditions for long-term effects. In the area of social inclusion of Roma, projects have been implemented within the framework of the objectives and measures set out in the strategies and resolutions where vulnerable groups, in particular children and adolescents, have been and have been exposed. I must also stress the project on empowering Roma women in 2015, which has enabled better information and strengthening the role of women, thus contributing to greater equality between Roma women and girls. In order to increase Roma involvement in the later period of the education system, however, the role played by the provision of information to Roma on the conditions for aiding the scholarship is particularly important. Health care. A number of projects, workshops, conferences aimed at raising awareness and informing the Roma community about health and the exercise of health rights. Special attention was given to information and care for adolescents, women, and children. 11 projects were co-financed in 2016 and 2017, which contributed to improving the living situation of Roma. The president of the Forum of Roma Councilors also praised the good practice of Roma integration in the space, but highlighted those municipalities where the local community does not include Roma settlements in the settlement plan. The Ministry of Culture financed 251 projects from 2015 to 2017. In addition, radio broadcasting programmes have been financed which have helped to raise public awareness of Roma culture and language. The 2016 Discrimination Protection Act highlighted the key role of the police, more partnership with the local community, state authorities and civil society, a greater sense of security, greater confidence in police work and effective crime prevention and investigation. The cooperation of the police with Roma within the national platform for Roma is also important. It is certainly necessary to establish a permanent dialogue and cooperation between the local community, the Roma community and the country in order to successfully integrate members of the Roma community into the wider social community. The LMŠ Group, the Lists of Marjana Sarca, notes that the country's integration policy towards Roma takes place at a solid level and does not significantly undermine the conditions, does not preserve their cultural identity, which manifests itself through various forms of artistic and other creation. Roma are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia as we have all remained, regardless of race or religious belief. Every citizen has the right to request, but also the duty to contribute.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u157	Mr President, thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the Government, colleagues, colleagues once again, thank you for your input. The Group of Social Democrats welcomes the proposal of the Committee on the Interior, the Public Administrative and Local Self-Government that the Fifth Report on the situation of the Roma community in Slovenia be considered at the plenary session of the National Assembly. We estimate that the challenges in addressing the problem of the Roma community are so complex that this topic requires a lot of attention and effective and systematic action. According to estimates from municipalities, centres for social work and other state institutions, there are between 7 and 10 000 Roma living in Slovenia. The legal basis for regulating the situation of the Roma community is defined in the Constitution and we have the area of the Roma community specifically regulated in the Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia. It is important to point out that none of the other 28 Member States of the European Union, this area has been regulated by a specific law, which we consider to be specific and at the same time an indication that the State wants to regulate the situation in the area of the Roma community. Last year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a new national programme of measures for Roma for the period 2017-2021 aimed at improving the situation and promoting social inclusion of members of the Roma community. Within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Office of Nationality is concerned with the issue, which is the national contact point for Roma in Slovenia and the Commission for the Protection of the Roma Community. An interdepartmental working group to address the spatial problem of Roma has also been established, which, according to our assessment, has done excellent work and made appropriate recommendations. These recommendations should be addressed on the relevant committees and used in establishing systemic measures. The challenges in the area of the Roma community could, according to our assessment, somehow fall into four categories, which are inseparably interconnected and have a direct impact on each other. However, it must be borne in mind that in resolving Roma issues it is not only about defining or defining only the rights of the Roma community, but also their duties, but also about identifying, informing the relevant systemic measures that would help to regulate the situation. These four categories of challenges affecting the Roma community are the living situation, education, employment and security. This will be discussed later in the debate itself. The views of both the Roma communities and the majority population are united in the need to regulate the situation as soon as possible. And if we can define problems, we can also define systemic solutions that must be framed into our legal system and acceptable to all. It is also important that all four categories begin to be regulated simultaneously, as they have a direct impact on each other, as has already been said. It is therefore necessary to amend the Law on the Roma Community as effectively as possible, and before that to examine the report of the Interdepartmental Working Group to address the spatial problem of Roma, which identified key problems and indicated solutions. All activities should include both the Roma community and the local communities where Roma live. The situation on the ground shows that co-existence between the majority population and the Roma communities in particular at Dolenjska Milo is said to be distorted. This situation is affected by a number of factors, which will certainly also be pointed out during the debate of Members. They need to listen with all seriousness and find solutions. On the Committee, we adopted a recommendation to the Government that it take immediate action to improve the situation of the Roma community in Slovenia and that, as soon as possible, in cooperation with representatives of the Roma community, representatives of the self-government local communities and other stakeholders prepare appropriate amendments to the Law on the Roma Community. We support this recommendation in the Group of Social Democrats. We also support and support in the future all measures that will help to create better conditions for the life, stay, employment and education of Roma, while at the same time improving relations between the Roma community and the majority population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u158	Thank you very much! Before I give the floor to Mr Jani Möderndorfer, who will present to us the views of the Modern Centre Party Group, let me say because many of the debaters refused to prepare Karl Urh, Predrag Baković and Lidija Dijak Mirnik. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u159	Hello! Dear Vice President, please, if you don't call me what I'm not. My last name is different. I won't say it again. We've done it a hundred times. Please, if you learn it, otherwise I'll change your last name and I'll start calling you different. In the SMC Group, we will, of course, support the recommendations proposed to this assembly. We'll support them for a clear reason. Today, I have heard various views of how the law was prepared and what was done and what was not done. The fact is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in the previous term, drafted the law, adopted it and sent it to the National Assembly. It was even scheduled for the April session. The fact is that most have decided to change or cancel the deadline plan and thus all the proposals that have been included in this deadline have fallen. So many excuses, by the way, that the marriage wasn't well prepared. This has not even been discussed, no one has even decided on it, so today it is somewhat irrelevant to discuss this. However, I believe that everyone has his views and opinions and that some may also present them today in the debate itself. Therefore, these recommendations are urgently needed. The government has a law in place today. However, since she is sovereign, she can prepare her proposals, changes, additions and send him immediately to the National Assembly. The National Programme of Action for Roma for the period 2017-2021, which has already been mentioned several times today, speaks of several things that are also the basis and orientations for all the measures that the Republic of Slovenia must implement. Among them, to list them, because they are very important and essential, are the issues of educational level, reduction of unemployment, improvement of health care, fourth, improvement of living conditions, fifth, elimination of prejudices, stereotypes and discrimination, sixth, preservation of Roma culture, language and identity and seventh, promotion of the information and publishing activities of the Roma community. That means we have a huge warrant ahead of us. Reports are welcome and are an incentive both for the office and not least for the government and for everyone else to work on them. The fact is, the Roma community has its own special weight. It is a constitutional category of the community, which therefore has a special weight. But the fact is, we have to admit that, and I believe that in the debate we will say something about it, that each one has his own view of how this is being resolved. But it's every single one of them. That is why it is sometimes very difficult to get on the common denominator. This common denominator, however, is to finally come to this point once, in order to be only a constitutional category, but we would never have to take any special measures to deal with the Roma community again. It's not that we deal with her like we like to say, but it's that it's our duty that some people don't want or don't understand. Finally, let me say that a significant shift has also been made. The Office has moved from the Office of the President to the General Secretariat, which is essential if it wishes to cooperate with all other ministries in a complementary manner and with the preparation and cooperation of the various reports themselves. In the debate itself, we will present and also tell how we represent ourselves, in the light of the report itself, a certain view concerning certain steps to solve the problem itself. However, let me mention what some of you have mentioned, but let me stress our position, it is not just that, it is clear that without the stakeholders involved in solving these problems and problems with the Roma community, we are talking about the local community, the country, non-governmental organisations, the authorities of the country and all other stakeholders, but we need to understand differently. Some say "give us the money and we will do what we think is right." Others say, “Give us everything we need and we will do what is right”. On one occasion, the congregation says that, on another occasion, the Roma communities themselves say that, for the third time, all those who think they can do it well. In the SMC Group, we are pleased to accept this debate and will also be happy to cooperate and monitor the resolution of the measures themselves below.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u160	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. A discussion is under way on the report and on the proposal for a recommendation. The word is Predrag Bakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u161	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! Thank you so much for saying that. So far, we have spoken more generally – or, if you like, at the academic level – I would like to let this debate actually go to some operational area and to those things that actually cover most members, both members of the Roma community and members of the majority population. I personally believe that I know Roma issues in its entirety. I am operationally engaged in all my career and I estimate that the things I will mention below are essential to solving the whole Roma problem. As I said earlier in the position of the Group of Social Democrats, I am also generally categorizing the challenges in addressing Roma issues in four categories: education, employment, the living situation and the security situation. All these topics are keyly linked and directly affect each other. The educational structure of the Roma is quite low. Most of them don't even graduate from high school. The reason for this situation is the fact that the Roma often do not see education as a value. This is why their visit to education is irregular, does not involve them in kindergarten, but also causes them to seek out poor knowledge of Slovenian language, lack of socialization of children, the exclusion of Roma children from children of the majority population, as well as poverty, unregulated living and social conditions, and lack of motivation within the Roma community and within the individual family. Children repeat the parents' pattern. There is a awareness among them that it is also possible to survive without education and without employment from social transfers and awareness of less employment opportunities. The low level of education results in a high unemployment rate for members of the Roma community, as they are mostly unemployed. The basic needs of life are provided through social transfers provided by the State to all people, not just them. They live in difficult situations and are often engaged in legal and semi-legal activities: collection of waste materials, sale of waste materials, reselling, lending of money, including for retail interest, commissioning of crimes and offences. The next reason for high unemployment is the judgment of employers, since Roma are often regarded as an unreliable worker, a worker who is prone to commit crimes. It's a stereotype and it shouldn't be. The third reason is the lack of interest of the Roma themselves in employment, as the gap between the salary of the unskilled worker and the social transfers is very small. In addition, there is a very important, fourth reason, and this is the responsibility of the Roma. It is a matter of indebtedness to the State and some other creditors, businesses, but this debt in the event of receiving social assistance is not recoverable. This results in the fact that the Roma in charge of threatening executions do not want to seek employment. Even if they did find it, they would certainly be less than social transfers due to the recovery of salaries in this case, which they are aware of and therefore do not want to actively seek employment. Since they are without regular employment and have little income from social transfers, they themselves are not able to manage the living conditions. The most critical living conditions are in Roma settlements, where their dwellings are often poor, with irregular status, illegal, on land owned by a congregation or by a country rarely owned by natural persons. These settlements have been largely tolerated and unregulated by congregations and countries over the decades and have in fact left the regulation to a rather informal individual. Settlements are spreading because of the high naturality of the Roma, which arouses resentment and demands to restrict settlements and regulate the situation in the majority population. However, the situation is settled slowly, and the reason is to seek both in the rules of the State and in the long-term procedures, the great financial burden most often on the local and Roma communities themselves, the lack of interest or even opposition to the regulation, resettlement or full regulation of individual Roma communities. Last but not least, we have witnessed this in Kočev in the last period where the local community has been trying to regulate the illegal Roma settlement intensively, but there has been resistance from various representatives of the Roma community. And the consequence of all of these unregulated situations is category four, which is the security situation. These are particularly bad in Roma settlements, and fewer in Roma families living outside the settlements of the majority population. In Roma settlements, there are often conflicts between them. Many times these conflicts are solved by threats, intimidation, physical violence, as well as by attacks on life. As a result, Roma, where possible, arrange their dwellings in settlements so that they are not too close to each other, yet somehow in the area of the Roma settlement, because there can be conflicts between them very quickly. Often due to the inappropriate behavior of children, any other conflict between parents, the heinous conduct of individuals through settlements, and so forth. Moreover, conflicts are also taking place with the nearby majority population. Some of the most common problems are loud music, various use of pyrotechnic products, use of firearms, burning insulation of colored metals, inadequate waste management, picking, occasional theft and so on. Such events increase the gap between the Roma community and the majority population. In most cases, police carry out their tasks and, at present, create some normal situation, often through repressive measures, both in the case of violations within and outside settlements. However, since most Roma are not employed and are living on social transfers, they are exempt from enforcement, so there is no execution of the sentence. The debt does not go up, but it does, and it waits for some better times when the social status of this person changes and improves — when a person becomes employed, inherits something or reaches some other property or property, but that does not happen. Of course, the Roma are also aware of this and are aware of their debt. I'll tell you from my own experience, a lot is owed from a few thousand euros to a few tens of thousands. In fact, the Roma told me themselves at the time that I was a member of the congregation of Kočevje, because they were trying in some way to regulate this situation, knowing that they would fall under execution and then they would not. In this way they also do not want to regulate their living conditions in a legal and transparent manner and become an official owner of these properties or even moving things. Money, whoever's got it, they keep it in their socks. Because of these circumstances, they avoid employment, even in children, they do not raise interest after employment, nor do they, of course, to obtain adequate education. Thus, the cycle between education, employment, living conditions and security conditions is repeated and there is no exit. At the same time, those who commit crimes as well as crimes get some false sense of immunity, that is, the feeling that nothing can happen to them. They repeat their actions, but the debt increases. Of course, there are solutions. If we can identify specific problems, we will also know how to identify solutions, or they are being suggested. However, this is not a case of individual measures, which are systemic measures which must take place simultaneously in all four defined categories. In the field of education, systematic measures should motivate parents to send their children to kindergarten and primary school, as well as establish appropriate mechanisms that will also require parents to be effectively responsible for the unjustified absence of children from school. Systemic measures should be regulated in such a way that parents themselves realize that education is necessary if they want to reach certain rights. Various proposals have emerged, both of which are different and different in how to establish this. One way is also to link the acquisition of a driver's license to an appropriate level of education. A specific education programme should also be introduced for persons over 15 years of age with a view to obtaining primary, vocational or secondary education and should also be motivated by systematic measures to complete such a programme. In the area of employment, it is urgent to ensure an adequate high level of income from employment, which will stimulate people to actively seek employment and will lead to a significant financial gap between social transfers and the salary of an unskilled worker or other appropriate job. Employers will need to be stimulated in an appropriate manner to make more frequent decisions on the provision of vacancies to Roma and other permanently unemployed people. Regarding the debt owed by Roma to the country and various companies, i.e. unpaid penalties, fines, mobile phone operator costs and more, some systemic measures will have to be taken. The first must be one that effectively prevents them from increasing their debt. Only once such a measure is adopted and the debt is no longer increased and this measure will be brought to life will it be necessary to consider how to deal with the past debt and to decide whether it will be a debt write-off or an agreement with them on the gradual repayment of the debt, so that this debt should not significantly affect their personal income or their property. This measure should apply to all, not only to the Roma, because, with the exception of other people, they would only discriminate against the latter. With regard to regulating the living conditions, it is essential that Roma settlements are legalised wherever possible. Here I see the task of local communities to carry out settlement legalisation procedures, but the country should simplify, shorten and cheapen these procedures. However, it is essential to recognize that Romani settlements are not the future, especially unordered ones that resemble ghettos, favelas, straws, etc. It is therefore essential that calls be made for an individual solution to the living situation of individuals and not just to the communal furnishing of settlements. For example, it is irrational and ineffective to regulate a Roma settlement where the facilities are such that they do not even have adequate sanitation so that the sewers can be diverted. In my work, I have come to realize that a number of Roma families would be happy to move out of the Roma settlement among the majority of the population, but there are no adequate financial conditions for this. In my view, therefore, it would be the right approach to first draw up appropriate invitations to promote an individual solution to the living situation outside the settlements, either for the purchase of land or for the purchase of a suitable residence for an individual or family, which would result in the reduction of Roma settlements itself. Roma would start living among the majority population, integration would be faster. Only then would it approach the proper regulation of municipal infrastructure in settlements as well. Of course, it is necessary to regulate their indebtedness, for it makes no sense that the Roma, who owes to the State or anyone else who is on social transfers and who has to settle matters in such a way that after becoming the owner of a property, the State takes it. Then there's no logic here. On one side, we give, on the other hand, we take. As has already been said, the security situation in Roma settlements and beyond is due to all other unregulated situations. Security situations will also be greatly improved following the improvement of the other three categories. Effective systemic measures should be put in place to prevent an increase in the debt of individuals for the purpose of carrying out illegal acts and to remedy the past debt accordingly. At the same time, it will also be necessary to deal effectively with all those who, despite all the measures, still violate the rules and enforce illegal practices. In short, I have listed four categories which are essential for resolving Roma issues. The solution must run parallel, but we cannot realistically expect immediate positive results. It is important that these measures begin immediately. Finally, as a police officer, I have dealt almost all my career with the Roma community. In doing so, I have often encountered discontent, dissatisfaction, and such or other forms of intolerance toward the Roma population among the majority population. On the other hand, on the other hand, I have often stumbled upon the physical forms of violence by members of the Roma community against the majority population. In the area where I worked, i.e. in Kočev, physical violence was committed against the majority population. I know of many cases where and still Roma are physically violent against the majority population, as well as against members of their own community. I'm sure you know a few cases. I can also list them: until the death of a beaten Roma at a gas station, the impaled municipal councilman in Kočev by Roma, a beaten entrepreneur, because he called the police because there was a traffic accident in the yard where Roma had a traffic accident, a beaten driver who, due to negligence, forced the driver of Roma. You could also list cases at events, concerts, cheers, and more. However, I do not want to talk about this because I would be a populist, but because there is a correlation between such behaviour of the Roma and intolerance. If I make it easy. Roma are dissatisfied, especially those from Roma settlements that live in worse conditions than the majority. But I've already identified the reasons for this. In some ways, they express their dissatisfaction with the aggressive behavior described by the majority of the population, which provokes opposition to dissatisfaction and discourages them from being around them. That's what the Roma sense. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The word has Lidija Dilják Mirnik, prepare Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. I'm not a savage, I'm a Girl. But let's just leave it. Sometimes a savage, if necessary. In fact, my colleague Predrag warned very deeply about the subject we are talking about. I'd like to be briefer myself, and I'd like to point out two things. We can read in the report that progress is certainly in the Roma communities, but the emphasis is that it is slow. The measures cover various areas of social life, focusing on raising educational levels, reducing unemployment, improving health care, living conditions, eliminating prejudices, stereotypes and discrimination, preserving Roma culture, language and identity. These trends in Roma inclusion in all active employment policies seem very positive to me. But there are also problems because, as we have heard, the Roma are very adaptable and opposed to each other for such and other reasons. However, differences in Slovenia are also very obvious. I know the Roma community at Murski Sobota in Pušta or Maribor. These things are definitely different from the ones that my colleague was talking about. It seems important to me that, nevertheless, at some declaration level, the Roma are relatively well cared for. Speaking of Maribor, I'm sure. However, we have certain problems that we solve in our own way in the face of local communities, in line with the problem that arises in a particular local community. If you don't know, we have the first Roma in Maribor. I respectfully invite you to visit her and to support the work of the Roma in this way. The stew is great, believe me. So come and see something in Maribor. However, I think it is urgent to draw attention to something else, which is that Roma must also start to realize that they are full and equal members of society and are also aware of their duties under their rights. This seems crucial to me, which we can also read in the report. Therefore, in short, the proposal for a recommendation will of course be supported, and the amendment to the law you have discussed is probably necessary as soon as possible. I propose that you also prepare it and arrange these matters so that we can say that we all live equally in Slovenia; we have the same rights and the same duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Let me say before I give the floor to Mrs Evi Irgl that Dusan Šiško, Željko Cigler, Jani Möderndorfer, Ferenc Horváth and Anja Bah Žibert have been reported. Mrs. Eva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u165	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I told you before that we were in 2007 or I think it was that year that it was 1. The government of Janša prepared a so-called roofing Law on the Roma Community, which intended to address this issue in its entirety. Mr Stane Baluh, who has been with us as Director of the Nationality Office today, has, of course, been in this position at the time, and has also participated in the drafting of this law, since the office has written it last time, he can say peacefully that we have included both the Roma Councilors' Forum and the Union of the Roma of Slovenia in writing this legislation at the time. At that time, they were very active in this area, and I think we have taken into account to a large extent all the comments they have made. However, over the years, when we look at this issue, we can see that things are still open. The biggest problem is that, on the one hand, we have a majority population facing problems and problems in the area where Roma live, especially when we are talking about Roma living in Dolenjska, and on the other hand, we have a Roma population that clearly wants to improve their situation. Given that we all know that Roma are a special ethnic community that has its own culture, language, we are all aware of the need for these customs, which they have to be nurtured and helped to do so, there is no doubt about it, but it is necessary to know that when we talk about the rights of the Roma community, the Roma community must be aware that it has responsibilities as well as that of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. What I see as a major problem with this issue or, I will say, as a challenge, is that the education structure of the Roma population needs to be improved first. This is again and again, and we also point out, to the committees that are the parent working bodies for this report, as well as to the Commission on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, which until recently addressed these reports as the parent working body, then went to the Committee on Home Affairs. But we have repeatedly warned that there is a need to improve the education structure, and in particular to improve the visit of Roma children to preschool programmes. This would undoubtedly help to improve the situation. Schoolchildren in regular education should participate in learning processes, as we know - and those who spend more time dealing with these issues know that this is not the case and that children who come from Roma families are all too often unjustifiablely left behind from school, but after we have completed this primary school process, young people and adults should also be involved in continuing the educational process in accordance with the principles of lifelong learning. The second problem that I personally see and then, as a result, also affects the problems that the majority of the Roma population has with the Roma population, especially in Dolenjska, especially in the village of Žabjek – but I believe that more can be said by colleague Anja Bah Žibert, who knows more about things because she is an MP from this area. But here we can say that we should increase employment and reduce the unemployment of members of the Roma community. You have already said many, to improve health care and so on and, of course, to strengthen the cultural activities of the Roma community, as is done, and even with the markings of the various Roma day. Then there are certain meetings in the National Assembly and elsewhere in Slovenia where their culture is strengthened. But on the other hand, we have the majority population, which is facing the under-socialization of the Roma population -- they are repeatedly warning that -- they are facing a lack of respect for foreign property, in this case their property, which is a major problem. We, too, on the Human Rights Commission, receive such petitions and deal with them. They talk about this or say repeatedly that there is no responsibility on the part of the Roma population, at least not acceptable. To make security, order and peace worse for many in this area, in particular the Dolenjska region. Something a fellow SD said earlier from both perspectives. These are the challenges for this national assembly and also the issues that we need to resolve. Of course, patiently resolve and by listening to both the Roma and the majority of the population, who undoubtedly have major problems in this area. Of course, we can't just wave our hand. But we must be aware that it will be difficult to resolve these issues if we do not make it clear that everyone living in this country has responsibilities in addition to the rights. As is the case with the majority population, so is the Roma community. At the same time, they need to be helped as much as they can. True, before that, the colleague mentioned in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that 67 million euros were allocated to Roma issues within 10 years. 67 million euros. In 10 years. Thus, I am in favour of regulating the housing situation in Roma settlements, in order to increase the educational structure, in order to increase employment, in order to provide health care and so on. But I think these millions could have been solved by now. So I wonder why this is not resolved at this point. How much money does it take to get these things out? These are the issues that matter. And they're in place. I have something to say here at the end of this debate. Look, I stand firm in the view that in this national assembly we have to listen to each other and also try to understand each other. Sounds like it. But not in a way that characterizes someone, I don't know that hatred is spreading, that they use hate speech and so on, even if there's virtually no argument for it. We are here in the National Assembly to explain our views, but that we are argued to say and then to mention cases, but not to throw everything into the same basket. He's not going to throw everybody in the same basket. That is why once again, Mr President, I would like to point out that I expect in today's debate - I think there are some debaters behind me - that we will all respect these standards of some cultural behaviour and actually show that the National Assembly is a place where there must be some cultural and even higher level. Because this also sets an example for citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u166	Thank you very much. The word has Dušan Šiško to prepare Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u167	Dear Vice President, guests! When I mentioned some of the facts in the debate in the Committee on Internal Affairs that show that the programmes and investment so far in solving the Roma problem at least in the area of Dolenjska and Posavje did not produce the right results, I was immediately attacked by some colleagues. One of the rare, which has so far been very frank and honest about the Roma problem in Slovenia, was the mayor of the municipality of Krško mag. Steady, Stanko. In an interview last October, he said, among other things, that the Roma policy in Slovenia was flawed and then he experienced a real media lynching. That's what happened to anyone who just tries to tell the truth. I myself was accused of hostile speech and much more after my board appearance. As I have already said on the committee, there has been a lot of work done in the Krko Congregation in all these years, but there are no real results, although we also have Roma who have made nice houses and drive cars worth several thousand euros. As long as there are virtually no employees, and until there are young people to complete primary school, we have not been successful. Perhaps it is right to do more elsewhere, such as in Pomour, because the Roma deserve it themselves. I don't know enough about it, but in Dolenjska and Posavje the situation is very bad, but some people here in Ljubljana obviously don't want to hear it. Therefore, according to the worst forms of crime and where the money from social assistance is actually going, I will not even speak today. Ladies and gentlemen, after my debate on the Committee on Internal Affairs, I have heard from several citizens who have largely confirmed the reality of my statements and, above all, they have expressed their dissatisfaction with the failure to act on public services and, above all, with a view to concealing the problem they face every day. I must add that citizens also point out that all Roma do not go to one basket, but positive cases are unfortunately very rare, given how much resources and energy they spend on solving this problem. There are many cases where Roma come to shopping centres where they then commit thefts, intimidate employees and other buyers. This often shows signs of strong guilt, most often a group of Roma come to the store where they then disperse. One or two of them then attract attention so that they behave inappropriately by shouting or even sobbing. When trade personnel direct attention to the decommissioners, others take advantage of this by hiding the items under their clothes or even in their bags and then leaving the shop. On exit, despite the beeping of the security system, they do not stop and often leave the store in progress. However, there are also several cases where commercial personnel have physically attacked. A number of locals have confirmed that they have seen, with their own eyes, the Roma making rounds and breaking into containers on ecological islands. There are several cases where the locals have reported such cases to the police and have also provided data on the registration of the vehicle. But there are fewer and fewer reports like this because citizens have been threatened because we know your registration. Trade in stores is also threatened by such threats. In the collection centres of Roma under the pretext of bringing waste, they come to the waste collection area, where they then jump out of the vehicle and literally fall into the containers, from which they then take everything, from the colored metals to the clothes. In doing so, they shall not take into account the instructions of the staff or the safety measures provided that the assembly centre has them. In these cases, too, there have been threats in the sense that they know where they live, that they know which car they are driving, that they know what school their children are going to, or that they will wait for the person after work when they leave the assembly center. Virtually all over the karst field, crop thefts have been taking place for many years, especially vegetables. This not only leads to crop theft but also to damage from immoderateness. The owners are forced to pour vegetables with noticeable colored fluids, such as milk to prevent thieves, while some are already desperate to think about village guards because they do not see another solution to protect their fields. In doing so, it should be said that most of them would like to contribute free of charge to a kilogram of vegetables in order to prevent damage, but it would be even better if the country, with its Roma policy, made sure that these people are involved in the harvesting of fruit and vegetables, rather than doing harm to farmers who work day-to-day, while Roma receive social contributions that go to thousands of euros. Anyone who drives on Posavina roads may notice that the police have repeatedly taken over Roma vehicles in the course of their work. By law, the vehicle shall be seized if the user does not have a driver’s licence, if the multiple offender or returnee is in violation and, of course, if the vehicle is not registered or technically inadequate. According to some truly unofficial data, more than half of all such offences are committed by Roma. According to data that the vast majority of Roma in our area are illiterate, citizens wonder how an illiterate person can pass a driving test, in general, since the test has been carried out electronically, and its complexity is such that an already literate person is a great asset. The media reports indicate that when the police arrived in a Roma village in our area, they had several difficulties throwing stones at them, and several policemen were injured. They also had several problems with firefighters who were called to intervene in a village where Roma were smoking various cables and other things so that the metals that remained could be sold more easily. Firefighters were throwing rocks at them and hurting their vehicles. People also remind me of the fact that something is wrong with the education system. Every morning, they can see young Roma wandering around the city and causing problems that I described earlier. If they hold that there is virtually no Roma leaving primary school, we should look at why those implementing these programmes continue to stick to the same system and do not change anything. It is also highly reasonable to believe that young Roma, who are in fact still children themselves, must be born only for social benefits. If we look at the Roma children in Posavje, we can see that even in the middle of winter they are half naked and barefoot. So they don't get the kind of care that this country helps them with their nice money. Last time in Krška, according to my information, several Roma have a permanent residence on the Road of Krk victims 11, where the address is the Centre for Social Work. I don't know if it can be told to all other citizens if they don't have a permanent residence to apply for a social work centre. Your Honor! I am aware that because of all the above, I will again be attacked and given such and other sentences, but I have only stated that they can be checked on the ground, so I will not discuss this either, because I see no point in discussing with those who for this or any other reason are blind to the problems that our citizens have, and of course these are also Roma. As I have already said on the Committee, my proposal is that Roma be just as responsible as other citizens. Until we demand responsibility for the money or other benefits they receive, we will not save anything. The problems will only be greater and this has been evident over the decades, so I say that the ways in which we help them are neither right nor right for them, and that the reports do not show the right situation in this area. I can also say that I talked to a fellow Romani friend a while ago – we have colleagues, we know how to talk – and I asked him why he doesn't work anymore. He said, "Are you crazy? I will work here for 600 euros and my entire family loses its contributions.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u168	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Željko Cigler has the floor and Mr Jani Möderndorfer is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u169	Thank you. Respectfully, the fact is that in this current discussion one thing is highlighted in particular: that the lack of a comprehensive state-focused and concrete problems targeted and supported, financial also, of course, a state policy linked to the Roma population in Slovenia. Very well, I must say that the problems were raised by my colleague Möderndorfer, Mr Baković and also by my colleague Irgle. By saying this, however, when we talk about the problem, about the funds that have been earmarked for the Roma population — 67 million in 10 years — it is not a small thing to look at together. For 10 years this year is 6.7 million, between 7 and 12 thousand is the Roma population in Slovenia, it comes to a person of 500, 580 euros about to say that I take 10,000. These are the money with which problems, especially housing problems, are more difficult to deal with when we start. At the same time, that's what I'd like to say. See, when Mr Šisko pointed out that one population is supported by state social transfers and, on the other hand, he is causing us in particular security problems if I say so. I think we need to look at the situation that this population is placed in or, as you have pointed out, to apply to social work centres. Even in my hometown Celje, there are a lot of people who have been reported at the social work centre as if they were their residents because they were displaced or otherwise socially affected. This is about members of the Slovenian population. This is just one life, one thing we want, and we have to do in this national assembly, and even in the government, whatever coalition is leading it, we are trying to cut it down to ensure prosperity. I'd like to say this. Look, the integration that is expected of someone, while we ghettoize them, condemn them to poverty, to the social side and stigmatize them, is practically impossible. It's hard. This creates problems for ourselves in this country, which is likely to be misdirected or misdirected. I would also like to say that both the state and the municipalities of the local communities are working to improve the situation of the Roma population. He's trying to solve problems. But the situation is improving and you have practically told me now, all the prefaces before me in the debate, the situation is changing very slowly. The projects are carried out in an uncoordinated and huge way, and the organisations involved are probably the most specific NGOs. This is what we want to cut off from these calls to the government that this approach needs to be changed. I must say, my colleague Baković spoke well earlier. Positive discrimination must be enforced, in fact. Not only for Roma when it comes to working, but also for any worker in Slovenia to say I am going to work, because I will be able to secure a decent life with the salary I will earn there. Does EUR 638 - I think that 636 or how much of the minimum wage is now net - guarantee this? No! No! I also remembered the issue of settlement very well, even wrote down when Mr Baković said, colleague Baković, Romani settlements are not the future, it is necessary to enable an individual solution to the housing situation, one degetoisation. I agree. It is true that until the results, these goals will take time to reach those that we are setting ourselves, which we are mentioning, but they need to be started. I must say that all these periodic reports sound nice, very nice, even when all the projects are mentioned, but, unfortunately, the reality is all before that, so that we can be proud of it. Roma are still ousted and ignored in Slovenia. Not everyone, there are positive examples, there are positive examples, but many Roma, especially in Dolenjska, still live in separate settlements where many do not have electricity, water, utilities. If someone doesn't even have these basic conditions, how can we expect him to send a child to kindergarten, even though we are aware of what preschool education is to the child in terms of social integration, socialisation is to go on, let alone in school. Last time I said that we were in some Roma villages on a visit, believe me, when we saw and communicated with children in kindergarten or those who did not attend kindergarten, that is an obvious and clear difference, whether it is a Roma child or a Slovenian child. In fact, kindergarten is and must be provided the conditions for as many children as possible to be citizens and citizens of Slovenia, but Roma also belong here, attending this standard – which we can truly be proud to offer in Slovenia – and this is preschool education. As things move slowly, they show changes to the umbrella Law on the Roma Community, which does not exist. We can read about the urgently needed changes in every single report we have read for ten years, and we are waiting for these changes. In particular, I would say what I said in the beginning – perhaps too harshly, I apologize, I am learning, I will try to keep my word even more in the future, thank you for the warning, I have understood it and I have heard it. Indeed, this report is not a real problem that we have here, it is not a realistic view of the problems facing the Roma community on a daily basis. Almost simultaneously in the National Assembly, we are discussing this report and the Ombudsman's report, which are two documents, which are diametrically opposite. And if the truth is in the middle of something, the situation of the Roma community in Slovenia is still very poor. It is high time that the country accepts responsibility for all citizens and citizens and adopts appropriate legislation and, in particular, a policy based on a clearly defined concept and strategy. If this is also agreed by the coalition, which also has executive power in its hands, it will be clear at the time of the adoption of the Law on the Roma Community. In Levica, we have already prepared these changes in the previous mandate in cooperation with representatives of the Roma community and mayors of local communities, where Roma live, as I said before. The changes relate exactly to the problems that we are talking about here today, and I see and I must say that I have felt the real readiness of all Members and Members of the National Assembly to work together on this matter and to resolve it and I am sure that it can be resolved in a short time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u170	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Janije Möderndorfer has the floor, Mr Ferenc Horvát. Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u171	Thank you very much, President. I am really sorry that today so many Members have given up the debate, especially because the Committee has taken the decision to hold a plenary session and we are essentially discussing those we have already discussed on the Committee. In fact, I no longer see the point of why we are doing this on the committee, but we only come here to discuss five of them. Especially because they showed interest. That's a little unusual for me. I must say that this also shows Members how we feel about this issue, because we are not serious. We think it'll be easy to get this out of the agenda. We won't. And I'll tell you why not. The Constitution was adopted in 1991 and from the Constitution to the Janša government we did not have a Law on the Roma Community. We didn't have one. You should ask yourself why all this time when the Roma community was a constitutional category, we did not have a law in this country that regulates these matters in detail. There are at least two reasons. Nobody wants to talk about it because it's not nice stuff. First, the left and the liberals feared this, adopted the law, for one simple reason; because they feared referendums. In fact, the historical memory, the one who has it, well knows that all the unloved laws or indeterminate laws were murmuring at the referendum, and we know exactly who called them. Of course, this was not the case. It was therefore clear in advance that the first time the right - hand government came to power, it would accept these things. And interestingly, interestingly – this is not just about the Roma community, because we also received the Law on Registration of Partners with the Right-wing Government. Because if a leftist or liberal had done it, the same thing would have happened; we would have gone to a referendum, the same thing would have happened. Don't think this is Slovenia's problem. No, it's the same in Germany. This first law was also passed by Merklov, who regulated these relations. So a man asks himself, and he wouldn't be exactly bragging that Janša's government did this because she was truly just for the Roma. [[…]] No! No! There's one more thing you need to know. John Janša was preparing for the Presidency of the European Union, and of course it must be shown that you have at least those basic things cleared up. Of course, wise politicians are going to sort things out quickly. There's one more thing that's happened. We can't forget it. Everything is important for the debate, for what we are talking about today on this report. In fact, 2006 saw the Strojans in the Janševa government. That's when he broke the balloon when he saw what would happen if we didn't write those questions into the law and start regulating them. I experienced them myself because I drove them myself, so I know a lot about it, and I can talk about it because I felt them, and Baluh and I drove in the car, and we looked for that parcel, and we looked at what parcel would be good for these poor Machineians. But it's not until 2007 that we get the law! This is, of course, the answer to how serious we are by regulating these things. That's why I don't give a shit. I always give a shit when someone says in Parliament that Roma are equal members of society. Yeah, on paper, he doesn't say that because they're not. And I'll give you a few arguments as to why they didn't. As long as a judge or a judge, I will speak so purposefully that it will not turn out that I now characterize someone, decides that the wedding of a minor without the knowledge and consent of parents aged 11-12, a girl who has been taken from primary school, but the cultural habits of Roma, I have a serious problem in what kind of country I live in. So don't tell me that Roma are equal members of society because we know what would happen if it happened to Nero. Someone would fly to jail and take away their parental rights and something else would happen. And that's what we're talking about today! Of course, colleague Baković worked hard with Roma, met them on a professional basis during his term, and he is right, when he says, ghetto, ghettoisation in all cases, not just in the case of Roma, is in fact wrong. Wrong because sooner or later they start to get expelled from society. Look, one basic rule. If we lock a prisoner up for 10, 15 years and he comes out of prison, he can't behave in society. If this applies to them, I don't know why it doesn't apply to everyone else. We always say Look, I give an example – the elderly. [[…]] We can't push seniors into homes for senior citizens anymore, but 250 beds, and I don't know what else. They need to be socialised, intergenerational society, young people, old people, they need to be included. Yeah, but is that not true of the Roma or how? We all have rules of the game, how these things are supposed to be handled, but not here. But where is the problem, in fact, that we have Roma in special settlements, and why do they go to these settlements? This too needs to be cleaned up and opened and admitted. Because no one wants to have them in their own backyard or in front of their own backyard. Nobody, nobody! And that's the key problem. Everyone would say that they're the same in this society, that they're equal, that we're going to adopt the law, that we're going to settle things, give them money, just not come to me, not here. And here we have an eccentric problem. Everything that's foreign, that doesn't smell like us, and so on. And then, of course, the stereotypes I hear from Mr. Shisk, I don't mean to do what my colleague Shisko said he would now characterize, that he said something wrong. No, but as Shisko thinks, he thinks a lot of Slovenians, a lot of people. Why? Because we have it in our brains. That's why I always say it's too small. Yeah, we need a marriage, but it's not enough. We're gonna have to change something else in our heads. What can help us if this law is not implemented and is not enforceable? That's the key problem. Of course, when one Roma does something wrong, let's call it a lump, like a lump is a Slovene or a Nero. What do we do with the maggot? Yeah, the police are dealing with him! What have I been hearing lately? That the police don't hope in a village, that it's so awful out there! Yes, please! Yeah, well, why don't you let the Home Secretary come over here and tell me if that's true and what police station and which police officer doesn't want to go into that kind of thing where he's called for an intervention? If that's true, then we have a serious problem because again someone doesn't respect the law, but it's not Romi's path, it's us, it's our organs. We have a problem, not them! So, what are we actually talking about? Will we solve the problem? I'm hearing today that I don't know how many millions have been spent in recent years. And where did that money go? Yeah, for God's sake, it all says where that money went! We all know, because it says, they report to all the ministries. In the year – small numbers are, I apologize – we spent in 2015, it is across all ministries 4 million 900. In 2016 we spent 5 million 800, if I see it correctly. In 2017, 6 million 153 and in 2018, what was the plan, I cannot yet talk about realisation, but of course there are 6 million 370. But it went so far from the Ministry of Culture, to home affairs, to work, in short, from different departments. But is that enough money? Are we talking about concrete things? Investments, settlement arrangements. Let me just mention that if we throw money in there, we haven't solved the problem yet, and we won't, because they'll still be excluded from society. We have a key problem. Then I hear they're computer illiterate. That's not true! These kids go to school, teach them, and have exams from teachers who are, I'll say, from the faculty of education, teach them through the curriculum and get even grades and have computer skills, don't joke! They've got them. But there's another problem. Let's say we integrate them into society. You can tell me where Rome can buy land, and there can be no shouting and screaming and barricades, and what I know is what else when they find out that one family is coming and buying. Can someone tell me that? No one can tell me that because it's gonna be a rhompom. Because I'm gonna tell you what a rhompom he was in Machineman's time. I said it would be nice if we put them in one apartment in a block where there's a lot of people, because that's the only way to solve the matter. I knew that machine guns could only be packed in Ljubljana. But if you think that there is nothing wrong with the Strojani today in Ljubljana – no, it is not all right and people have problems because of the Strojanov! That's a fact. But even in Ljubljana, they're back in some little ghetto there. Do you know why they're there? Because we couldn't put them anywhere else because no one wanted them. And where are they? They're in a military area, an ex-military area, because there was no one there who could complain that they wouldn't be next door. That's why they're there, but nobody says that. We had a problem putting them in school? Why? Because there is no school environment in the military area. Look at the fragment! We couldn't even get them to school, and they're all principals or principals, because they were three, they said, not from our school environment, not from our school environment. You know how we got them to go to school? We quietly had to promise them that they would get two teachers to get a new gym, and I don't know what else to get. Catastrophe! And then we talk, so that we can meet European standards, that everything is cool. Let me tell you something. If we talk at the inn, you know what people say, and I defend myself: “Tell me what to do with Roma. Should we just kill them or something?” That's terrible. You can't, people are and they're equal members of society, I hear today. So, if they are, will we take one step further? Are we gonna make this move? Let's say we're talking about culture. Radio Romak has now been a problem since 2015 because it lacks funding and barely sustains two and so on. Several articles have already been published. In this law, which was in April, we have found the legal basis for finally regulating systemicly something that other specific cultural communities have, which have constitutional status and have certain positions, which we need to settle because we have a constitutional commitment to deal with. We said in Article 4 that we will set rights in terms of information, publishing, media activities of the Roma community and codecision in public matters. This law is not adopted. I'm waiting for a new marriage when it comes, and I hope this piece doesn't disappear. You know, these are these little finesse that we're talking about, how things need to be moved on. Kids. I used to be a principle, and I'm going to try and get it over with. You know, we put them in kindergarten. Innocent beings, tabular race, learn like all other children; in the same way. The only problem is that they come home where they don't have training patterns and moments like we do. And I cannot forget the discussion or discussion with a colleague who worked through a non-governmental organization in this Roma settlement and said: “Jani, two children go to school, two sisters. One thing I know is she's not gonna make it. Because her parents have already set her up, what will happen to her in advance. One of them is brilliant. I'd finish college and have an amazing career. Jani, it's not gonna come out! And I'll tell you why it won't be any of it. Because no one cares about her! Not a centre for social work, which should start proceedings through a court to take the child away, and – since this is now a few years ago – is probably already married.” Married! You all know what I'm talking about. What does that mean in the Romani community? These are the things we should be doing in terms of concept. These are trials, not in one, two, three years. This is a process that lasts ten, twenty years. All generations must turn around so that we can experience or experience this process, which is called in the proper sense of the word to integrate them into society, become part of us. I know a nurse who's a Rominja. No one would know it was a Rominja. Nobody. If you hadn't told me. Do you know why it's quiet? Why doesn't he tell anyone that she's a Romanian? Because we would automatically start looking at it differently. And we'd start pushing her away. She changed her last name because she knows it's contagious! In a word. There are problems, there are! They have all these stories that we listen to, from copper to place, and I don’t know what else — what we heard in previous discussions. We have people driving cars without exams and so on, and my colleague, when we visited him in New Town, taught me and said, "You know, they're already doing the exam because they know now that if they don't have the exam, they're going to take their car." Oh, no! He gave too much for the car. And so on and so forth. Yes! That's not what law enforcement is all about! We're all the same before the law. But if we are persecuting that everyone is the same — so to speak, disciplined, and we will try — then everything else is also true. But here I think we have not yet passed a mature exam: not as a country, not as a people. I know if I come home, and if I talk to my brothers, they'll probably have automatic prejudices. I don't blame people who have prejudices, because they simply live on the influences and patterns they have grown up with. We Members – we can no longer make excuses for patterns and influences. At least I hope not. Because if we do, then we have a problem. And that's a serious problem. One more thing. I heard that. A lynching with the krishna mayor. I don't know, but who by any chance knows what kind of lynching was made over the krishna mayor? I didn't track it anywhere. What's more, he's running! So I wouldn't do that. [[…]] You know, I am furiously angry, I know and I believe that there are excesses and incidents; I believe you do, Mr Šiško, and I believe that there are individual cases that are unheard of, but we have one bad habit – because of one, two cases we throw them all in one basket and they are all the same and when they find out that they are all the same for us, then of course they also get these samples back. It is not nice to live in a society that is declared fair, that respects human rights, that the Constitution applies to us, legislation, everything, and then we find that it took us 17 years to reach even the Law on the Roma Community. It's not nice, even if we know the reasons. I've been liberating myself, and I'm not fine, and I'm ashamed that we couldn't do it, so I'm gonna say it out loud. I don't know if anyone else can do this. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u172	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The word is given by Mr Ferenc Horváth, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert in this round will be your last. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u173	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Secretary of State, Honourable Director, Dear colleagues and colleagues! Maybe he'd start where Mr. Möderndorfer ended up. It is not likely that it is easy for an individual to live with a certain kind of consciousness that collective guilt is that they are accused of something every day. Usually, we quickly stigmatize the whole community, even though some individual may have done something wrong. I also take the floor because I live in an area where the Roma community also lives, and I can say that I know quite well the situation in the national mixed area, including the Roma community. Sometimes when I read Romani issues in newspapers, it surprises me because I think that, given what we have heard in part today, I think that this issue needs to be addressed even more with a sense. You can see or at least my experience is somehow such that the problems at different ends of Slovenia are very different. For the northeast part, I can say that things are quite well arranged for this bilingual area. I will not say that there have never been any problems, but I must also say that there are very few problems with those, I will say who are natives, who are indigenous, if I may say so. We have many problems, or we have had problems with Roma families who have moved in with us. Somehow they were more difficult to integrate, and in fact they were also the problems that we may have heard several times today. I think that the responsibility of the State in this matter is very high, but at least I think that the responsibility and approach of the local community is so important. I can boast here, especially in the Lendava area, and I must say that things are very well arranged there, that most of the Roma live in a Roma settlement, but they also have living conditions just on a solid level – they have recently acquired common spaces. But I think that the country has remained to some extent responsible for the implementation of the legislation. Otherwise, it has been said today that a lot of resources are being used to solve this Roma problem, but I think it is still, at least not enough or is not properly targeted in revitalising or legalising Roma settlements, because we would also like to end it in our end. That is why I hope to say this, because before I did, of course, I consulted with the representatives of the Roma community because I trust their opinions, because they themselves actually know this issue much better than we do. I think that this issue should somehow be upgraded so that where the Roma communities actually want some kind of integration, they want to respect the laws. I think they still need to be allowed to do so in fact. I can also commend the fact that in our area of majority or as far as I know, in fact all children also attend bilingual kindergartens, bilingual schools and I think this is the best example of integration. This was also said to me by the representatives of the Roma community that it would mean a great deal to them if, for example, the Ministry of Education allowed Roma assistants or assistants who may not have higher education to be employed in schools and schools, but also secondary education, because for these children, a familiar face in school means much more and would be even easier to integrate. Finally, there is only so much to say that we had a Roma culture day this year. I must say that I was very proud of how this programme was implemented together with the human university, because this programme was attended by members of the Roma community, the majority people, members of the Hungarian community. I think that such events and such a relationship of self-respect and respect for the other community should guide all of us if we are to live in a world that is tolerant. I hope this respect gets more and more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u174	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, may I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u175	Thank you very much. In fact, I am happy to be last in line, because I have really been able to listen to all the debaters and actually figure out where we have those shared views and where we might see things differently. In my previous term, I was first elected as a Member in an area where the Roma issue is actually very hot. I'm talking about the Dolenjska area. You've made some of this point today. When I wanted to take a slightly more active approach in this area, I asked for basic data from the Ministry. Actually, it's important for me to see what we're up to if we want to solve things. And I'll do it in a row. A key point that has already been highlighted today is that the so-called integration starts in children. That is why I asked the Ministry of Education for simple information on how many Roma children a nine-year-old is finished. Listen carefully, I did not ask how many Roma children go to school for nine years — that is, you have to go to school after marriage for nine years, but it is not necessary for you to complete a nine - year - old. The answer was that they didn't have this information because they didn't record it. I asked the next question, the same ministry, how many children attend school on a regular basis. So, five days a week. The answer was the same to the previous one, and we don't record this information. Now, I ask you, all present and respected, on the one hand, we say that Roma children are more involved in the education system. This starts in elementary school, kindergarten isn't an educational system yet. How do we know that if we don't have the basic data? It's the other way around. Why do we divide or separate the Roma from the so - called non - Romani population? Or are we asking the non-Roma population how many children are involved in the primary school system? No! No! Because he's bound. Because that's what the law says. And somewhere here there is an important difference that parents of Roma children do not respect this marriage and it is true, as previously said, how can anything else be done if these children do not even attend primary school. We have bright exceptions, yes, we have Roma who have already completed or completed colleges and so on. But I speak generally; I speak from the environment from which I come, and this tells me the Roma population, not only the others, but also them. Then I ask myself what the main problem is that these children do not come to school — the situation at home! Here I will give you a concrete example of the village of Frog. Nobody knows how many people live in there. Everyone gives different numbers. Look, there's music there at night until morning, there's pyrotechnics, there's -- very much like in Kočev, only if I were to say this earlier, maybe someone would tell me that I'm spreading hate speech -- there's shooting. The police are coming. Before that, it was said what the police were doing. Here comes the police, the music quiets when the police go, the situation is the same to the previous one. How are these kids supposed to go to school in the morning? Who's gonna send them to school? Not only can these children not go to school, but also the non - Roma population living nearby, have problems because they face the same problem. Here is also the problem of the safety of Roma children, and this is the key to education, to obtain data once and to comply with the law applicable to all citizens and not make them second-class. Kids just have to come to school. If children do come to school, there will certainly be more opportunities to complete it and then the school will continue and somehow move out of the circle in which they have lived. The next question I asked the ministry at the time was how many Roma are permanently employed, according to figures. There's no data. I got information on how many are employed and I wondered what the reason was for the Roma to actually lose their jobs. The most common is the answer — see here for 615 cases, 300 cases, 460 cases — unknown. There's a few of them, so it's been a while, and so on. On the other hand, for comparison, let me tell you that a project worth a million euros was in existence in Slovenia a few years ago, which was aimed at hiring Roma in an area. Five people signed up, three of them Roma and two so-called Nero, but more difficult to employ. The final purchase was one Roma employee and the project cost a million euros. Here are our problems. You've listened to me very carefully before, but not enough, because now you're operating on the number 67 million. Yes, ma'am, but it's only from the departmental ministries. Where else are the funds? That's how much more is involved. Significantly more. And I'm not saying whether it's too big a number or too small a number, I'm talking about efficiency. On the other hand, I asked the Ministry of the Environment how many illegal, illegal settlements we have in Slovenia. There's no data. How are we going to solve problems if we don't even know how many of these settlements there are and how many of these residential areas there are settlements where things are supposed to be arranged? There's no data. That was all the answer to my question. And then how are we supposed to deal with the subject matter? Is it true with the change of law? Even today, I have not seen unity in your debates; one has spoken the novelty of the law, one has spoken the new law. And I'm saying that neither of us will solve anything unless we start on a basic basis. And that's basic data. Previously, the representative of the Left said that there are 12,000 Roma living in Slovenia. Look, it's not true. The score is from 7 to 12; because we only have estimates because we don't have this data either. Look, until we have the basics, how much work we're going to do, how many things we've solved in this country, and where we've made progress, and maybe where we've gone back. I am never to be treated unjustly, and therefore I must point out here the case of the Good Village. I know the matter very well. There were two household numbers — we are talking about water. 2012 was built a well of water. Nine so - called tenants simply accepted the matter and joined the water, while six of them were explicitly rejected by water. I also know that bivouacs are placed there so that children have a special form of education. So it's not all on one side. You also need to know what someone is doing and then see if things are coming true or not. I think it's very important. Come in. In the previous term, we are very happy in the Slovenian Democratic Party, at the initiative of the Slovenian Democratic Party, that colleague Eva Irgl then convened her meeting on this subject, which was held in 2017, a very fruitful debate. Not only Members were present, but also many mayors and representatives of the Roma communities. Everyone could have given their opinions. Let me say that the debate was also attended by a representative of the Left at the time, which was former Member Hanžek, who said that the matter was going very well, and I am pleased with the level at which the matter took place. You can also look at the magnetograms. In fact, if the goal is for someone to actually start changing things for the better, then we need to be objective, and above all we need to start dealing with getting basic data. If someone in Slovenia has a special marriage, we must have the basic data to see whether this law is being implemented or not. At the same time, improving things is not the answer. That is why we are always in the same mold; we always revolve around the same question. Today, we could have a lot of educated Roma if we actually applied the law that all children have to attend primary school and take care of it, as previously said, either through centres or through other forms. And today would have been much better. I'm sure they'd probably be more employed. It is also true that what was said earlier is that a number of jobs are cancelled, because — respected, this is very sad — for a number of Roma families children represent money because they get so much and so much money through social transfers and then they don’t care if they go to kindergarten, school, or education, but only what they get, and then live with it. I am talking about the Roma problem in Dolenjska, because I agree with the predecessor that the Roma problem in Slovenia is very different. In Prekmurje we have settlements that are well arranged, things are working out, in Dolenjska the picture is completely different. And it is true that if we close our eyes to this subject, both in this way and in another way, we will not benefit anyone, not the Roma population, nor the non-Roma population. We're not doing anyone any good by blinding, improving things, getting better here, this project has worked and so on. It's not enough to just make a project! The exact evaluation of the project is important, how much funding has been invested for one thing and how much impact has been made. Just so we don't make the same mistakes. Because that's what's going on. Just to make it sound good, some projects are carried out and the effects are not what they should be. I also talked a lot with Roma in the field, including the Roma saints. I've been told that in some congregations things are definitely moving around, and it's a little bit harder. But they themselves told me that it is very important that the Roma people also feel how important it is to seek employment or to work, not only to socialize themselves in this way, but also to integrate into society. The Roma themselves say this, and the Roma themselves bother to go to work in a certain Roma settlement, but the other does not. That noise all night, the other one needs to get up in the morning and go to work. And if he wants kids to be educated, then take their kid, I don't know, to school or anywhere. It still happens that Roma children come to school half barefoot, undressed and so on. Don't tell me there's a dress problem today. People offer them. But it is not in the interest of someone or those families I speak of to have these children come to life differently, and they have been teaching them some of the values that are not right since childhood. It was mentioned earlier — underage weddings. That's a big problem. But that's how you give up your kids again, and it goes on. And those kids, the poor kids, they're still kids, they already have their own families, and that's how it goes. I, too, am very sad that there was no more discussion today by the colleagues of the Left who proposed that we deal with this in the National Assembly. I am sorry, although my colleague has made it very clear, he has presented his opinion, but there could be another debate. But I have an initiative to finish. All those Members and Members of Parliament coming from an area where there is a Roma problem, we are establishing an informal group in this national assembly. Let's start talking about this, let's start working together, either on the left or on the right, let's start working together, so that we don't just open up questions, but look for answers. No marriage will help if we don't cooperate. It can sound so beautiful, new marriage or new marriage. No, no, no. Let's step together, connect, see what the problems are, see where the problems come from, and we can certainly say in the future – I won't say that next year, because I'm not exactly optimistic by nature – but I believe that at the end of the term we can say together: it's paid off, we can do it because we're working together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, you have 48 seconds left. Otherwise, it's very good. With this, ladies and gentlemen, I note that the list of Members and Members that you have been notified has been completed. In the final part of the debate you have the word Mr Stanko Baluh, you have been frequently challenged, I believe you will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u177	Dear Members! Thank you very much for the opportunity to discuss it in this National Assembly. I am pleased with the really constructive debates, regardless of who has debated them. For it could have been as in the past, when some worse words were falling, which could have been characterized as a violation of some different rights than only minority ones. No matter what, look, there was a lot of talk, a lot of initiatives were put in place. It's a wonderful idea made by Mrs. Zibertov! We will participate in such an informal group; I will personally cooperate if necessary. I know things; the things that some Members have said I know personally because I have been following this topic for a long time, and this topic is not only about minority problems or rights, but, as you know, that minority rights have been the precursors of human rights. That's how these things are connected. Nevertheless, I will only point out some facts that you may not have pointed out or read in our report. Our report is in fact not that some things are completely settled, because we are working with people. [[…]] Changing people means changing yourself, and then others can change with you. If, in this broader context, I also highlight your debate, I have felt in your debate that some of you are seeing problems at local level, which means that it is necessary to ask yourself about yourself and then about others living next to you. It is said; not to talk about stereotypes, but about acceptance, not about hostility, but about friendship. In short, I see here that there is still a lot to be done at local level. Some of you have mentioned today, “because in Ljubljana you do not know it, ” honourable Members, as much as I am in the field with people, with Roma, in some of the settlements you mentioned today, I have been repeatedly, not to say ten times or more. [[…]] All the problems you've been exposing, I know them personally. Škocjan – we've saved it. Partly saved. There's a lot to eat. I'm not gonna tell you how we solved this, because I know the cameras are here, but we've solved some things. But I reiterate whatever I say – we change people. Which is the process – in change. You pointed out the first thing – I'll take it from here – what my colleague Baković said very well, and I will focus on the living situation. Kolega Baković was also a member of the Interdepartmental Working Group, which worked within the Ministry of Environment and Space. A year and a half of hard work. These results may not be seen because one sentence is written in the report that a working group has been formed and, of course, this working group has come with concrete results. There were representatives of local communities present. Also from the Municipality of Krško, your parish was part of this interdepartmental working group. From Bachelor. New City. In the New Town — just for intermezzo — the enormous progress that the previous government has made with three million and is taking place within the village of Žabjek. It works as a multidisciplinary team, works with people and, of course, infrastructure is also regulated. If it's not an integrated approach, then we won't notice any changes. But this is about small steps, and when he meets individual families, they are present. To get back to this interdepartmental task force. A fantastic document is prepared, where eight concrete measures are taken in the conclusion of that document. Which is very explicit. Where the matter needs only to be financially evaluated and started to be implemented. This document is currently in inter-departmental coordination, final inter-departmental coordination, with which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will then be informed, and on this basis I would like to make a concrete decision by the Government – and here I give the floor to stand for this – in order to bring about concreteisation and implementation. And this is where data is collected – but not by making it available to the public because you know that it is forbidden to collect data in Slovenia on the basis of belonging, but can be collected in different forms. This working group met with a horizontal theme. When we opened up the bibian situation, education issues, social issues, questions began to arise – whatever components were previously listed by colleague Baković. These issues have been raised and these issues have in fact been addressed by this working group. Of course, I am also asking you here, as a responsible political assembly, for political support, when this document will also be adopted and perhaps you already have an idea for any concrete treatment on your home commissions. So, great progress maybe because it wasn't described here, I see, because here was an analysis of all Roma settlements, legal and illegal settlements, and here was also a description, and of course, with these data we don't operate in the public, but the working group had them and has also prepared these measures on this basis. Then we go to another area. Education. You have seen in your education that a lot of measures have been taken, a lot of measures are being implemented both in the school environment and in the settlements themselves. The villages themselves have been visited by so-called educational incubators, which are in individual settlements, where multi-purpose centres, where different representatives of different services come to deal with children in this afternoon, educational programmes are being carried out in the afternoon and, of course, social workers who face individual problems there. In short, there is actually a lot of work going on in these segments, but I reiterate: we are working with people. If people don't change, then maybe the measures look like a dead letter on paper. Then an active employment policy. Again, the data was not clear, but the data is collected only if the individual is identified in one way or another and can then be kept in the record. With this data, you were probably also available when you received the answers from individual ministries. This is a major challenge that awaits us, as you yourself have found that it is not the value of the Roma community to be employed, and some of the problems that you have raised here today are actually absorbing. When it becomes the value of a community, it is easier to discuss it. Very much emphasis, perhaps too little exposure today, and here at the Nationality Office we have made a major breakthrough, is the resort of minors to harmful environments. In fact, with existing legislation in Slovenia we can no longer tolerate this. We have actually had a lot of consultations here, we are working towards a kind of protocol, cooperation between the individual authorities, from the police, to the judiciary, to the centre for social work, educational institutions, and we have actually opened the so-called taboo topic in this area. Here the Roma community itself, organisation or umbrella organization of the Council of the Roma Community participates and condemns such acts literally. This is in line with Slovenian legislation, these things are unacceptable and we will continue to insist and demand the responsibility of the Roma community. As far as the strategy is concerned, the specific strategy, as you mentioned, should need a specific strategy. Look, we were talking about a constitution today and a marriage. No, no, no. There is also a constitution, a Roma law as a guardian, implementing the provisions of Article 65 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia plus sixteen other regional laws governing the topic of the Roma community. We are not asking enough questions about this and individual ministries have separate strategies, both in the field of education, employment and so on, where in some way these systemic measures are already placed in line with sectoral legislation. You can read them because they are also listed in the report. As far as ghettoization is concerned. We are not for the ghettoisation of Romani settlements to return. But what we are doing – and here is the Ministry of the Economy, regardless of the calls, as you have rightly found out today, has given a huge million, has been announced. But this is not about solving individual problems, which perhaps someone would like to do – individually solving problems is really problematic and here we would need a lot of help from local communities, which sometimes actually cancels. As such, we have also tried to make infrastructure calls at the initiative of local communities, but the fact is that the Ministry of the Economy has responded to their insistence so far on calls for the resolution of Roma basic infrastructure. But this does not mean that we support ghettoization — not true! We are trying to settle the bibian situation where people are living right now and they need to be brought to a decent level. From there it is necessary to encourage people to get out of the village and to go into integration, into society as a whole. Here the state is actually committed, because you have to realize that these people are in an awkward position to start, have a lower starting position if you want. For this reason, it is imperative that the country help these people to reach at least the same level and then start a wider society from there. Something was also mentioned about the offenses and so on. On behalf of the Nationality Office, I can tell you that we have excellent cooperation with the police, so let's say in Dolenjska, if you like, or anywhere else. The police are also very strongly present in Roma settlements, information is constantly being carried out and the police are also actively involved in the implementation of the various programmes listed in this report today. So I say that the police work in accordance with their competences and is very active and has a positive connotation in addressing the problems that the Roma community is facing. Maybe so much for a little while that I'll touch it and I'll be done with it. We have put into evaluation – and evaluation is also ending – a national Roma action programme for the previous year. This evaluation will be made, on the basis of this evaluation, we will also try to change some of the measures, because this document, if this is a document 2017-2021, is not a rigid document, it is a document which is open-ended and can also be updated afterwards. Once this evaluation has been made, I assure you that in areas where it will prove to be, some of the measures that are now being written will need to be changed and possibly made more human. The next step to be taken is the new law. We're talking about a new marriage, so we wouldn't be moving here right now. It was invested – and this is where my colleague Jani told the whole story well, I will not repeat it about the novelty of the law. Let me add here, you have raised the guardian's status and thus given her an opportunity – and this was the first law in which the guardian at the start took part in the preparation and amendment of the Law on the Romani Community. And in the part where we have been warned by the international institutions for decades and, of course, also by the Ombudsman and other NGOs, we have also taken into account their proposals and introduced them into the body of the novel of the Law on the Romani Community. Such a novelty of law is ready and, of course, if today your assembly also accepts this in terms of this recommendation, then we as a government can also begin the procedure and put this amendment of the law into procedure and this process can also normally run out. Let me point out that coordination with local communities on the amendment of the law has been enormous. The Roma community, as it is fragmented, was present at two meetings and we have then harmonised the text. So sometimes when I hear some individuals, which I also mentioned in my editorial today, there may also be obstacles to the implementation of certain concrete measures because some individuals are looking only at themselves and not at the whole community we are talking about today and is very problematic. Because of the fact that I hear such things, I sometimes find myself a little surprised because I think that the law was actually in line with all the Roma communities – I used the plural because we have different representatives in cities and so-called Roma communities, where they live in the municipalities of the territory where they have been for a long time. In short, this law or the amendment of the law has in fact been coordinated twice with the entire Roma communities, and this was also a step that we put this amendment of the law into procedure and, of course, we are open to further your motives and recommendations that you will make. We are not afraid of this or we are happy to start by going into the procedure and taking a step forward in this area. Of course, I am also aware of your warnings that laws and regulations will not solve these problems. Of course not. As I said — and I will conclude with this — we work with people, and when we change ourselves, we can change people around us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Director. Of course, the government is not limited to our recommendation, even without it you can make a law. I can probably give this information as President of the National Assembly. I understand that all the debaters you wanted got your word. Since the time set for the debate is not yet in progress, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. We'll start the application process. I'm starting the procedure. We have two reports. Mr Predrag Baković is first. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u179	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Perhaps earlier in my implementation, I was not clear enough to explain one thing, and later I noticed in my colleagues' discussions that they were talking about the things I was talking about, but they probably didn't understand me. What's this all about? You talked about the need to enforce laws, that we have this written and that laws are not implemented. The laws are being implemented. We have one particular thing that I wanted to point out, and maybe I wasn't clear enough. What's this all about? Those who commit crimes, either Roma or anyone else, are somehow here, things are going smoothly. So, they work under the Criminal Procedure Act, the police do their job, press charges, detention, if necessary, propose detention and so on. When it comes to fines and fines, that's where we're in trouble. Why? Because it is not recoverable from people who are on social transfers and do not have any movable or immovable property. And from here, the debts I was talking about. Then we ask ourselves if the police don't go to Roma settlements. Come on. It's doing great! However, their measures are not effective. Why not? Because when they give out a fine, it's not expendable. This fine is imposed, daily, weekly, just how criminally active someone is. But I'm not just talking about the Roma, I'm talking about everyone who's on social transfers and they don't have any assets, and they're committing crimes. There is no longer a relievable prison to do so, as it used to be, and they cannot recover this punishment. It is my personal opinion, but I believe that there is no one else to help the recipients of social assistance — and it is not right for them to be grateful to the State for giving them this assistance. But it would be very good for the state not to do any harm. If so, then let them take full responsibility for this and also at the cost of being deprived of social transfers. When we talked about kids not going to school. Why don't kids go to school? Because these are the reasons we've heard about. I'll tell you, in our schools, the principals and the others in charge of this have filed applications for school inspections. The school inspector pronounced the sentence, but it was not expendable – not again. Here we have a problem and we will have to change something here; that they will also be aware of their responsibilities and of course all others who are engaged in illegal practices and are under social transfers. I hope that I have now been clear enough, without populism, but I want to say that I have been for the first time since I was in the National Assembly, and I have felt some synergy both right and left, that we have identified problems that we somehow agree. I also very much welcome the proposal of colleague Anja Bah Žibert that the Members we have of the Roma community are somehow united in some formal or informal form and we are trying to settle matters in a way that is different in favour of all, both the Roma and the majority population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u180	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Joseph Horvath as the last to debate. You have the opportunity to confirm the synergy that has just been established. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u181	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished director, Mr Stan Baluh! First of all, I have to give you a confession and a commendation and a thank you. For many years you have been working with the Roma community, and I know that you know exactly how every Romani settler breathes, every Roma settlement. I know. This message of yours, you repeated it several times: we work with people. Of course, this should also be the principle of the entire National Assembly. I am grateful to you, colleagues and colleagues, for all your, such and different experiences, colleague Anja, colleague Dušan, colleague Predrag and so on, but I am among you the happiest. Why? Because I have the best experience. She's also known by the president of the Magi. Thirsty. I come from the municipality of Črenšovci, there is the Roma settlement Kamenci. The municipality has regulated everything possible, mainly with European funds. So the European funds, of course, are: for plumbing, for sewerage, for intergenerational centre, for cultural centre, as they say, equipped with the most modern equipment, we built them a horse stable, we bought horses, and we drove a carriage with our colleague Dejan Jedana or what it's called. Some substitute for social entrepreneurship stood up there. The Constitutional Court visits and, of course, other diverse people, officials and so on, artists visit this Roma settlement, the Romani museum and so on. It is indeed an example of good practice, so it is good to combine examples of good practice and, as far as it is concerned, to write them into acts that are very necessary and necessary. But now I would not have responded here to the debate that went in this direction, that our government as a right-wing government – but it was not the right-wing government, because Desus was also in it – but look, we adopted the Romani law on 30 March 2007. I also spoke about this on the world day of the Roma in 2008, which was organized in this Romani settlement of Kamenci in our congregation, the congregation of Črenšovci, and I Googled what I was saying there. I talked about the key to the dialogue between Roma and the majority population, the key being genuine human relations. I think it's quite understandable, and I actually insist on it. We are not equal, we are not equal, but we are equal. I believe that now this law will see the light of the world. I will say right now that I will not be too pleased, including the New Slovenia Group, if the new burdens on the municipalities fall again without additional funding. How we, when I was about 50 years younger, as the Crenšovci Primary School, was my primary school, ensured that Roma children were coming to primary school. You know how? He was a teacher, a Nace named riding a bicycle, riding children, Romani children to school, two on a stand, two on the back. Of course, as far as traffic protection was concerned, it wasn't okay, but it was okay for these kids to graduate from elementary school. That's 50 years ago. This teacher would have earned a national medal. This was an example of good practice. Today, of course, thank God, parents of Roma children bring their children to primary school, yes, even with fat cars. And now I'm not going to discuss it this way. But I will discuss in this direction that all parents must be equally responsible. And a dot. We do not deviate from reducing the responsibility of a group’s parents. Moreover, what would not only give a better visual appearance, but also a more substantive one – and what I learned from my professional colleagues in the previous term when I led the Committee on Foreign Policy – we do not talk about minorities, colleagues and colleagues. There is also a minority on the government's website. There's a minority in any marriage. I'm allergic to that expression. We are talking about the Italian minority and the Hungarian minority, about the Roma minority – we are talking about the national community! About the Roma community, the Italian National Community and the Hungarian National Community. Let's draw a minority. It'll be better, you'll see. [[microfine decommissioning]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u182	Mr. Ambassador, automation has taken the floor, not me. I am very impressed that you have informed the National Assembly of our attempt to maximize the load of the carriage because the carriage has happily survived. And this concludes the debate. The amendments to the draft report were not tabled. The proposal for a recommendation will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. With this, honourable Members, I interrupt this agenda item and the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly, and at the same time inform you that we continue at 18.50. Thank you. (The sitting was suspended at 18.22 and resumed at 18.50.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u183	Dear fellow Members, we continue our adjourned meeting of the National Assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: paragraphs 13, 14, 19 and 25 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposed decisions. Members and Members, please check the voting devices. Thank you. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Income Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act is suitable for further consideration. On behalf of the proposer or the parliamentary group, Mr or Mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u184	President, thank you very much. The Income Act is, of course, suitable for further consideration. Today we have done the first reading and I believe there are no reasons why we should not let him go to the second reading and finish things there, as the majority coalition wants them. The key point in this law is that before the elections, there was broad political consensus that we would raise wages in this country by means of a revised income system. By proposing to raise general income relief from the current EUR 3 000 300 to EUR 7 000, this would mean that people would get more net in the same gross, so more in their wallets, more in their pockets. In particular, this means that citizens would receive more €83 per month on average Slovenian salaries. Figure out how much this is a year. One of the main criticisms of this proposal was where we would be taking financial resources, as this would mean EUR 500 million falling out of the state budget. It has, of course, been forgotten to say that in recent years there have been more than a billion euros of budget revenues than in the past. In addition, it was forgotten that even the Ministry of Finance charged a small amount of additional value added tax due to higher consumption, which is logical. The more people are left in their pockets, the more they will be able to spend. When they spend, they pay value added tax, but at the same time, higher consumption always means higher demand, which leads to more jobs and more jobs to pay in the state budget. This is an essential point to raise wages for all, not only in the public sector, but also for those who are employed in the private sector. And we're back on the money. For the public sector, EUR 300 million was obviously not a problem. I wonder why 500 million euros would be a problem for the public sector plus the private sector. I emphasize, for the public sector plus the private sector. This increase in wages that we propose would be at the expense of the state budget. What we will consider tomorrow at tomorrow's extraordinary session will be at the expense of the entire economy. That's an essential difference. You are proposing to raise wages by burdening the economy, we are proposing to raise wages with lower taxes, so that the country cuts off a smaller cake. As I said, the parliamentary group will vote in favour of further consideration of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u185	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Is that what we're doing on behalf of the Members? [[…]] Mr. Joseph Horvath, please. [[advertising from the hall]] Personally, on behalf of the Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Since I was the bearer of the law, I firmly and wholeheartedly believe that the solutions we have proposed for the first time in this mandate are good. Good for everyone, good for everyone or, more precisely, good for all the taxpayers. About a million and a half of us. It's not about one small group, it's not about those on minimum wage. To those, yes, even to those and all, we want to raise our wages with this solution. After a non-professional calculation of the tax revenue of the Ministry of Finance, the accounting of the Republic of Slovenia, each taxpayer would receive at annual level EUR 390 more. You're up, 390 euros more. Every one, every one and a half million. Look at the analysis of where we are with salaries within the European Union, we are on the floor, 17th place with regard to salary raises from 2014 to spring 2018. We've raised wages for five percent, not burdens. I do not wish to refer to Romania as a reference where low wages have been raised by a good 51 % during the period 2014-2018. Let's see Austria and Germany where good wages are. The Austrians have raised 29% in this period of wages, the Germans have raised 21% for good, we're down 5%. Which is why it's normal for me to pack my suitcases if I'm younger, but I'm going out, even though I'm a patriot, I like being in this country. But if we have an increasing number of countries, this means more and more socialism that has collapsed, and some of you are kicking into socialism, it's normal for people to go out and give them a good signal to go out.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u187	I see that there is still a desire to explain the voice of an individual Member or Member of Parliament, we are going to apply for a debate, an explanation. Here we go. Thank you. We have three applications, like the first Mr. Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, chairman. In Levi, we read the Income Act in the only way this law can be read. So for tax reliefs to rich people who are already privileged in Slovenian society. The first effect of this proposal would be [[advertising from the hall]] A half-billion-dollar drop in public funds from our common budget deficit. This account would, of course, first impoverish public services that benefit the working class in this country. The benefits of social equality and justice included in this law would also not help. Someone in the working class would be in net amount better for a two-digit number at pay, someone from a rich type, say from the NLB administration, and for a four-digit amount and the result in combination would be, of course – what? For someone who comes from a working family, a public hospital would be bankrupt, inoperable, and the rich would have an even easier time affording a private doctor. That's why we're against this law in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. The next one has the word mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u190	In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we read this law by allowing relief at the level of the vital needs of life. This is the basis for the social state. Everyone is supposed to have 7 000 euros in relief, every citizen, and 7 000 600 euros is the minimum of living; a minimum of living, which means that people barely survive with this money. The current facilitation taxes this minimum of living, and this proposal speaks of the fact that the minimum of living should not be taxed. Poverty is not to be taxed, and we therefore support this proposal, personally as in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Slovenia is a social state under the Constitution and everyone must receive some of this social and this is a basic tax instrument to ensure the social component of this tax. This is also a basic instrument to ensure in some way a fair tax. Here we all have different opinions about what is right, but this is a criterion for justice – the cost of life, ladies and gentlemen! And those who are against it, of course, mean that you tax those who don't even have to survive. They will pay a tax sooner than they will be able to provide basic food, food for life, heat for life, but they will have to pay the tax first. Ladies and gentlemen, this is in conflict with ethics, morality, humanity.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u191	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As the last word you have, Mr. Dusan Shisko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u192	President, thank you so much for your word. In the position of the Slovenian National Party Group, where he was present in the Chamber and listened to me, I finally sighed only deeply. Why? And now it's time for me to let you know. Dear fellow Members and Members of the Government, look, look, look, look, look, look, look, look, you're just looking, confirming what's right with you. When I discussed and asked the President of the country the issue of nuclear waste, I did not get the support to deal with it, and the second day Croatian media wrote what I said they would have time to build waste – a warehouse by 2043. So please, think about it, the first reading is just – I'm talking about the 13th and 14th points and then I'm not answering. So please reconsider, give a second reading a chance and we can move on. Not just looking party and government, see for the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-28-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u193	You forgot to explain your voice. That wasn't right now. Please, in the future, stick to what the words are meant for. With this, honourable Members, we are moving to a vote. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 43. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and therefore the legislative procedure for the proposal for a law is closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Cadastrian Income Law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Cadastrian Income Law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 39. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 39.]] I note that the assembly of the proposal for this Decision has not adopted, and therefore the legislative procedure for the proposal for a law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 19th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Articles 120, 121 and 122 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, which reads as follows: The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Articles 120, 121 and 122 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education shall not be adopted. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 4. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I therefore note that the decision has been adopted and the procedure for the adoption of the authentic interpretation has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Fifth Report on the situation of the Roma community in Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Recommendation to the Fifth Report on the situation of the Roma community in Slovenia. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 52.3 votes against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the second session of the National Assembly. Have a nice day ahead.
