ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin the third meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Jelka Godec, Ferenc Horvat, Marijan Pojbič, Jože Tanko, mag. Marko Koprivc from 16:00 on, Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec, Željko Cigler from 11.30 to 14.30, Zvonko Černač from 17:00 on, Iva Dimic from 18:00 on, Franz Kramar to 12 noon, Franz Jurša from 11.30 to 15:00, Mr. Branko Simonovic from 11.30 to 15:00, Dr. Darius Kračič to 18:00, Lidija Divac Mirnik until 19:00, Jan Mahnic from 19.30 on, Alenka Jeraj from 14:00 on and Mag. Carmen Furman from 16 o'clock. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the first item of the agenda, the representative of the State Council to the 6th item of the agenda, the President of the Government and the candidate for Minister Dr Iztok Purič to the 24th item of the agenda, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the representative of the Council to the 27th item of the agenda, and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 7 December 2018, by reference to the sitting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a decision. Please check the operation of the voting devices. We're voting. 62 Members and Members were present, 62 votes against. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving to 3. On the day-to-day basis, this is the defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Gradual Closure of the Ripper Mine and the Developmental Prestructuring of the Region by the current procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Magi. Bojan Kumer, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have drawn up a proposal for a new law with a view to completing all closures and extending the deadline for the implementation of procedures for the complete and permanent abandonment of mining works to be completed by the end of 2019 and the implementation of simultaneous activities to carry out the liquidation process by the end of 2020. By the end of 2020, the programme of closures will be fully implemented by the end of the extension period. Final eco-space rehabilitation and mine abandonment procedures will be carried out in accordance with the law governing mining. In areas where the consequences cannot be fully remedied or remedied, insurance measures will be implemented to close the risk to health or life of humans and animals and the potential causes of environmental pollution or foreseeable damage to facilities and the environment. In order to complete those activities and carry out the procedures, RTH, d.o.o. will also be provided with budgetary funding of approximately EUR 3.1 million. That amount is the remaining part of the assets that were confirmed for the period 2010 to 2018 by a decision on State aid for closure measures which were not fully used. The financing of all procedures for the execution of full and permanent abandonment of mining works as well as the regular winding-up procedure of the company will be provided after the use of the funds of EUR 3.1 million from the sale of RTH’s own assets and the cashing of the liquidation mass. In the draft law, we also took into account the fact that mining rights were extinguished for the company on 31 December 2018. The mining right cannot be extended in accordance with the provisions of the law, nor can it be extended in accordance with the provisions of the Mining Act, since the conditions laid down are not met. With the proposed amendment of the law, RTH shall be able to perform all acts under the provisions of the ZRud-1 Act, in such a way that it may carry out such procedures irrespective of the fact that, as of 1 January 2019, its mining rights have been extinguished. By setting a date for the implementation of the necessary procedures, both the final remedial works and the activities to terminate the company and the legal person, it is desirable to achieve the simultaneous implementation of certain activities, in particular in order to initiate the necessary activities in a timely manner to obtain the status of the company in liquidation. We are proposing support for the law, because it is only in this way that we can provide the legal basis for the implementation of the procedures for leaving the mine, in accordance with the provisions of the mining law, and consequently all the procedures necessary for the liquidation and removal of the company as a legal person from the register. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State! I give the floor to Mr Edward Paulic, Chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, which is the working body of the mother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u4	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! At its 2nd emergency meeting of 4 December 2018, the Infrastructure, Environment and Space Committee considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. On behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mag. Bojan Kumer. Like today, the main solutions and objectives pursued by the bill have been presented in more detail. The representative of the Legislative Service pointed out that the amendments tabled by the coalition groups took due account of their comments and pointed out the indeterminability of the exact amount of the budget for 2019 and 2020 approved for the implementation of the mine closure programme. In his presentation, the representative of the Council of State said that they supported the bill. It considers that the resources of State aid already granted to the company in 2019 and the assets for the sale of its own assets and the liquidation of its assets will not be sufficient for the ecological recovery of the degraded area. As a result, additional appropriations will have to be provided. In the debate, Members agreed to a majority of the time limit for closing the closing works at the end of 2020. The coalition's parliamentary groups expressed support for the bill and, among other things, noted that it does not have a timeline for environmental surveillance. They have donated that an agreement will have to be reached by the responsible State stakeholders on the way in which environmental controls are carried out and the provision of funds for this purpose. The view was expressed that it would make sense to adopt an approach whereby environmental controls would be carried out at the level of the whole country and for all mines. However, it was pointed out by the Levica Group that the bill was not only about closing the mine, but also about the substantive programme work on restructuring the entire region. They pointed out that the purpose of the company’s own infrastructure should be changed accordingly, which would be used by local communities after its closure. In particular, the SDS Group highlighted concerns about the reasons for the extension of the deadlines for the implementation of the procedures for the abandonment of mining works and the rehabilitation of the degraded area. The question of responsibility for the longevity of procedures was raised and doubts were expressed that the remaining three million euros would be sufficient to complete them. They also raised the issue of the usefulness of the funds used so far. The Secretary of State explained that a larger number of managers had been replaced since the adoption of the law and it is therefore difficult to determine who is more or less responsible for the extension of the mine closure procedures. Regarding the control of the closure procedure, he explained that there are several levels or control mechanisms. Thus, every time management was obliged to prepare a programme for the closure and execution of all parts and activities, and the company is also under constant commercial supervision by the Tri-Member Supervisory Board. With regard to doubts as to whether the three million euros would be sufficient to complete the proceedings, he recalled that the company still had certain assets and therefore believed that the responsible would act in its sales and also by means of these funds to carry out the necessary work for the closure and liquidation of the company. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted five amendments to the coalition groups and, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Aleksander Reberšek, you have the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u6	Dear President, representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us a proposal for a second extension of the deadline for the completion of the closure works of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine. The closure plan set 31 as the deadline for the closure of the mine. 12. 2015, but in March 2014 the deadline was extended until 31 December of this year. We are just before the end of the year and, unfortunately, the current government, five before the 12th, notes that it will have to renew the deadline. Re-provide that the country is a bad owner and owner of its assets. In Nova Slovenija we are extending the deadline to 31. 12. 2018 supported only due to the then severe social hazard of employees, which could cause a real social bomb in Zasavje. At that time, it was only when it became clear that the State aid approved by the European Commission in 2011 for the closure of caves, the ecological spatial recovery of surfaces and the human resources social programme would not be sufficient to close the mine until the end of 2015. In addition, the State allocated EUR 45 million 730 000 for the extension of the closure deadline and the final recovery of the mine in 2016 to 2018, as well as an additional EUR 10 million for the resolution of occupational pensions for hard-working older workers. With these additional financial injections, the then government assured the National Assembly that by the time of the new deadline 31. 12. 2018 mine definitely closed. The current government moved even later, a month before the deadline. It ensures the same as the previous one that, at the end of 2020, all procedures for the complete and permanent suspension of mining operations and the liquidation procedure will be completed and that the company, as a legal person, will be deleted from the Registry of Justice. It ensures that unused funds amounting to €3.1 million will be fully spent at this time. It's unlikely. Why haven't they been used up until today? Nor is it clear how much of this money will actually be devoted to the development restructuring of the region. As has been the case so far, unforeseeable work will have to be done during this extended period. And there's something else in your eyes. At the end of December, employment contracts will be terminated for all employees, and only the Director will be responsible for the completion of the liquidation process. In New Slovenia, we fear that the country will face the same problem as today when it has to be closed or before in accordance with the proposal of the amendment to the law in 2020. There is a question in place that nobody asks today: who is responsible for all of the extension of the closure deadlines and for the failure of management mainly between 2013 and 2018? Today we should discuss this issue, a respected government and a coalition. We will oppose the bill in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Andrej Reich, you have the floor on behalf of the Allanka Bratušek Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u8	Dear Mr. President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! At Alenka Bratušek we will support the proposed amendment of the law. Before I go to the grounds for our support for the marriage, I will first return to 2014. By then, it had been known that the Trbovlje-Breaster mine would be closed. It was planned that it would cease to operate at the end of 2015. Even before this happened, RTH remained with a blocked account and the miner could not pay wages and cancellations. At that time, at the end of February 2014, the miners decided to strike in a cave which they later carried out because their professional requirements had not been met at first. On 10 March they went to the cave and from the country which owns the company and the mine, demanded several things, first to ensure payment of wages and settlement of emoluments. They also wanted the Government, led by Alenka Bratušek at the time, to check the possibilities for miners to be employed in other state-owned companies or to retire under regular and extraordinary conditions. The following day around 11 p.m. and shortly after the first trade union representatives visited the cave, the president of the government also came to talk with the management of the strike committee. Because that's how it's done. When you have a problem, you have to face it by going into a pit in the middle of the night with angry and disappointed miners. Her advocacy for oak and trumptail miners has only really begun. Meetings of the expert committee with Alenka Bratušek continued in March and April. At its initiative, non-financial requirements for miners have also deteriorated positively. In May 2014, the government proposed, and in June we adopted a law on early retirement of employees in the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine. All the sentence requirements of the miners were thus met. Our President's story with RTH hasn't been over yet. It is not until this year that the Ministry of Infrastructure is in charge of mining, among other things. It has once again shown a sense of what is really important, and we are proud and supportive of it in the SAB. It was precisely because of knowledge of the problem that the Ministry took over with its co-workers that it discussed thoroughly what they could do to ensure that RTH did not lose its operating base and that the mine could be closed and repaired as necessary. They have prepared a new law that we are considering today, which will allow the mine to operate for another two years, so that it can be properly closed. Once again, experience and determination have come to the fore, as another politician, an inexperienced minister, could simply miss the deadline for extending the operation of RTH, which would only be to the detriment of the state and the local population. In particular, we support the proposed solution in the SAB. It is good for people who are and who will live with the mine even now that mining activities are abandoned in it and mining mines are dedicated to the development of tourism. One such innovative example of sports tourism is also the Jamatlon Jamatlon. In the SAB, we welcome the proposed extension of the deadline for the completion of complete and permanent abandonment of mining works, as this is essential, if possible, to eliminate the risks to human and animal health and life and to prevent the possibility of pollution of the environment or foreseeable damage to its facilities and environment. The amendment to the law, which we will support in the SAB today, provides that by the end of 2020, in addition to the definitive abandonment of mining works, as far as possible, we will also address the consequences that have arisen in the implementation of these works, stressing that the funds for this have been provided long ago, which means that there will be no unforeseen budgetary implications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Ivan Hršak on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A respected minister with a co-worker, a respected colleague and colleagues! We are looking at the amendment of the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region, which should have been carried out at the end of the previous term, but because of the early withdrawal of the government and the systematic submission of proposals, the novelties could not have been carried out following the urgent procedure at that time. At that time, we committed ourselves to adopting this novel will be our priority at the beginning of this mandate. Together with the Members of the other parliamentary groups coming from a wider area of Sisak, we have advocated the preparation of the novel with the competent minister, and so this proposal is before us today. The law brings nothing more than an extension of the deadline for closing works by the end of 2020, which will allow the remainder to be spent, a little more than €3 million, which has remained unused from the total amount of State aid, which has been notified for the period 2010 to 2015 as State aid, also endorsed by the European Commission. For various reasons, it was necessary to extend the deadline for closing works to the end of 2018 once before, but this also proved to be a short period, so we are witnessing another extension of the closing period. With this novelty, we can draw a parallel to some other laws where it was necessary to extend the deadline for the execution of certain works, such as the law on the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava, where we have moved several times to complete the works. Thus, the amendment of the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine is not a matter of precedent or anomaly, as has been heard in some discussions on the parent body. As expected, in the Desus Group we will unanimously support the proposal for a new law before us. At the same time, we expect the competent ministry to, at least as agreed with the Minister, prepare a monitoring of degraded areas from 1. 1. 2021 further, as a result of this mining, and will regulate the monitoring of developments in abandoned mining areas at the level of the whole country of Slovenia, not only in Zasavje, which we estimate is essential for the safety of people and infrastructure where people are located near such areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Dušan Šiško on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u12	President, thank you for your word. Respectable guests, colleagues and colleagues! In the opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group, the law in question has been unreasonably amended, supplemented and amended on many occasions. After the adoption of the original law, the mine began to shut down gradually in 2000. However, the closure took place in several stages. The time limit for the execution of closures so far is up to 31. 12. 2018 and the amount of unspent funds amounts to just over EUR 3 million. The proposed law extends the deadline for closing closures at the end of 2020. During the proposed extension period, the company is expected to complete the procedures for the complete and permanent abandonment of mining works and the liquidation process. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we have supported the bill already on the Infrastructure Committee and we will support it today, but we must point out some shortcomings. First of all, it seems to us that no closure plan has been submitted to the bill. The latter could mean that in two years we will be sitting together again, and the date will be postponed to 2022 or later. In doing so, we are deeply disturbed that it has not been specified exactly why the envisaged works could not be carried out and who is responsible for this. I'd like to draw your attention to another matter that I know a little bit more. I'm from Posavje, Krskov. This is the case with the closure of the Senovo mine, which formally lasted about 14 years and spent 40 million euros on it. Nevertheless, according to me, a number of debts or creditors remained outstanding. In any event, we expect or require the Slovenian National Party's leadership to submit to the Infrastructure Committee, within three months of the adoption of this Act, a detailed review of the planned works and activities to be carried out with the money provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Bojan Podkrodšek, Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u14	Dear President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting also on behalf of our parliamentary group! We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region. Dear colleagues and colleagues, and all those who listen to us from the Sava region, all respect for this valued region, but speaking today of the urgent procedure of this law, we have heard many times in these days that this practice is already some other law. I don't think that's right. The State, the Government, the National Assembly must always respond when a region needs financial assistance. It is also a great responsibility of the Government to provide funds to help in one way or another to be over these funds, how they are spent and what is being done in that project. It is also a great responsibility for all those who acquire these funds in that region. Our Group of Members must mention three years: 2013, 2014 and 2015. Certainly, we cannot be proud of the government during these years in this Sava region with these funds. What was wrong at the time will be judged by those in charge of these matters in our country. We must be aware that those who gave these funds at the time, that we had the President of the Government, that we had a minister, that MPs and Members were also co-responsible, who confirmed this and should be on top of these funds. On the committee, we have listened to the representative of the Trbovlje Mine, who has been running this institution for the last three years. The arguments he made that these funds, the good EUR 3 million, had not been used and that it would take another year to complete the rehabilitation of the area of Trbovlje Rudnik and to eliminate the company Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik by the end of 2020 are arguments for which we will not oppose this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Nina Maurovich, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, List Marjan Šarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u16	Respected and respected! Today we decide on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. With the proposed law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is extending the deadline for the completion of all necessary procedures for the closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine at the end of 2020. The current legal deadline for the closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine is 31 December of this year. Unfortunately, the former mining area has not yet been repaired to the end. It is urgent to stress that time is running out and not money. The funding earmarked for the liquidation of the mine has not yet been fully spent and the proposed law thus provides only a legal framework for the absorption of unused funds to be provided within the budget lines of the Ministry of Infrastructure. But it is likely that all of us, as well as the mammals, are rightly asking why mine closures and the recovery of mining areas take so long. Let's go back to history. These days, 214 years have passed since the Trbovlje mine obtained its first official coal mining permit. They're saviour thefts, and they'll be marked for good by mining. And here I don't mean the bargaining robustness of the people who come from Zasavje, the chambering, the juicy talk, the legends about Perkmandelj and culinary with interesting names such as funner, the bunker, the granadirmarsh. Even we natives, as well as I as Hrastničenko, even other Slovenians, can hardly imagine the enormous quantities of ore that have been dug and driven out of the trenches that spread right under our homes in the guest network. All of this was dug over a thousand kilometers of trenches. This is more than Slovenia has a highway and fast roads together. During the 200 years, the right hands of the suction miners dug a tunnel that could connect Ljubljana to Paris. More than 100 million tons of coal were dug and removed from the trenches under our homes. It's a pile of material that's about the size of the Šmarna Gora. The ground is so thick and fragile under the homes of the Zasavci. They are in the final phase of closure when the beaches, seats, wrecks and damage caused by groundwater, which is once again seeking its way to the surface. When there are so many trenches under the ground, people can expect unexpected relief regardless. Try to imagine what it's like to live with the idea that the beach can take your house away because the rehabilitation of the degraded surfaces would not be properly carried out to the end. For we had already experienced such a beach in 1987, when he took away several houses in Zagor and, believe me, he was heavily anchored in our memory. This is also why the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the gradual closure of Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region for Zasavje is extremely important. We deserve to see the consequences of 200-year-old mining done in a dignified, correct and definitive manner. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the period after 2020. The mammals are concerned about who and how they will monitor and systemically control the mine after the mine closes. Experts are united that in the future movements will continue to take place on and below the surface. Who will be funding system surveillance and whose financial burden will be future recovery? They certainly can't become the burden of the local community. First of all, we must adopt the law that is on the table today, which we will certainly support in the Group of Members of the Letters of Marjan Šarc. The law introduces changes and additions that will allow the completion of procedures for the complete and permanent abandonment of mining works over the next two years, eliminate the consequences of the mining work and implement measures that will eliminate risks to human and animal health and life and foreseeable damage to objects and the environment. During this period, the liquidation and removal of Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik from the Court Register will also take place. The story of mining in Zasavje will be over forever. And at the end of the day, as Hrastniks, allow me another moment of sentimentality. Zasavski Orleki sings as follows: “Only a few years left, and the gwirk will be closed, there will be a monument on the market behind it and there will be an engrossed junt for two hundred years. [[…]] Bye-bye!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u17	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Soniboy Knezak on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region is a proposal allowing the mine and the Zasavska region to fully absorb all the funds already earmarked for the gradual closure and restructuring of the region. The measures, which were confirmed by the State aid decision for the period 2010 to 2018, were not fully used. EUR 3 million 100 000 is the amount of these unused funds, which will be used by this law to complete procedures for the complete and permanent suspension of mining works and the liquidation process. The bill, which we will support in the Group of Social Democrats, is merely to provide the legal framework for the implementation of the procedures necessary for the liquidation and removal of society as legal persons from the Registry. By approving this law, the company will be given the opportunity to fully implement the closure programme and to carry out procedures for the abandonment of the mine in accordance with the law governing mining. At the end of 2020, the closure programme will be fully implemented or the final ecological spatial rehabilitation of the degraded area will be carried out. However, where the consequences cannot be fully remedied, insurance measures will be taken to eliminate the risk to health or to the lives of humans and animals. With the proposed law and the amendment of the law, there will be no unforeseen budgetary implications, and Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik will be able to carry out all the actions necessary to complete the procedures for the abandonment of the mine under the law governing mining pending the issuance of all decisions on termination of rights and obligations, but until the end of 2020. Dear colleagues and colleagues! By completing the production of Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, the region of Zasavnica has lost thousands of jobs in recent years. A colleague in front of me described wonderfully what we've been through as a region. But I firmly believe that the Trbovlje-Breeder Mine and I will meet again in the future. What has already been mentioned many times today is something that we will definitely demand from the mammals, and this is to carry out effective monitoring and provide resources for the degradation of the surfaces that will certainly be created. Why the extension of the closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine? Because it's not the closing of a factory where you shut off the power, shut the door, and sell off the property. We spent hundreds of miles of trenches with a variety of supple materials, but mostly with water. So, even Zasavje is kind of on this pool. In last year’s pre - last year, water strikes began to occur in residential houses, landslides, reptiles. Nina's colleague forgot to mention that she lives under a beach that stopped a few yards outside their house. In short, I want to say that I am firmly convinced that they will be able to close the mine with these funds. The closing works in the mine are already over. It is to complete what was the obligation of the mine and the state to local communities, something else in the area of Trubovlje, and something in the area of Hrastnik. As I said, there are still some open environmental issues in Hrastnik besides closing the mine. Not to mention, next to the Termoelectric Trbovlje, the highest chimney, we also have the highest pile of garbage. Thousands of tons of electro-filter ash left behind, which is also due to mining. I just want to point out that, given this topic, we will be very hard negotiators in the area of human and animal health and property security. I am also counting on the first arrangements with the ministries, and I am optimistic that the country is also aware that this matter will have to be properly settled. We see that they are not adequately regulated in the area of other mines, and we support the thinking towards the establishment of a society that will regulate this monitoring for the whole country. I am pleased, however, that we are finally ending this mining story with a rich tradition that will remain and that we are proud of in Zasavje. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Janja Slug on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u20	The beginning of mining activities in Zasavje is 212 years ago and has always been of great importance to the inhabitants there. The suction developed economically and industrially right at the mines and in connection with the mines. Infrastructure was being built for the welfare of the Zava population. Of course, from this title the wider Slovenian area was also supplied with coal for heating as well as electricity. All of this left a strong mark in Zasavje, both in humans and in the environment. The Act on the gradual closure of Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region was adopted in 2000. It has been implemented since 2001 and the deadline for closure has already been extended until the end of this year. With the amendment to the law that we are considering today, the closure deadline is extended to 2020. This would allow Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik to fully implement the closure programme and to carry out the procedures for leaving the mine, as provided for by the Mining Act. Taking into account the activities actually carried out in 2017, RTH in the field of the implementation of the closures in view of the amended medium-term programme for the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine for the period 2013-2018 has actually eliminated the delay which has begun to arise from the previous programming periods. Today's novelty will make it possible to use those budgetary resources which were approved for the period 2010 to 2018 by a state aid decision but were not used. Once the closing works have been completed, the consequences of the mining work will be definitively eliminated, while insurance measures will be implemented for what is most important – to eliminate the risk to human and animal health and life. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we have already worked very hard in the previous mandate to resolve this issue in a way that will benefit the people of Zasav, but unfortunately the adoption of the law has not taken place. In the SMC Group, we will support the bill because we are aware of the responsibility that Members bear in this regard, but it is not our job to assess what was technically appropriate and what was wrong in the mine closure process. It was probably a lot of things wrong, but there are other organs for that. It is our job to ensure that environmental damage is no longer caused and that people's lives are not threatened. It is right to allow the final execution of closing works to allow today's novelty to draw on unused budgetary resources, but we must not forget, of course, that nature is alive and that in the future monitoring will also have to be carried out to monitor the situation and possible additional measures. In the SMC Group, we will unanimously support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u21	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. As the last word, Mr Primož Siter, Group of the Left, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u22	Thank you very much, dear comrade president! Dear Messengers and Messengers, Zasavcans and Zasavcans! In Zasavje, mining and heavy industries have left behind a proud and upright cultural heritage of work and class struggle, but they have also left behind environmental devastation. And as if this in itself is not dramatic enough, the draining of raw materials and people has, for most of the time, become a strong and inexhaustible deadline of capital, which has ensured that the region has not been exhausted only environmentally but also more effectively – socially. Since the time of the crazy privatisations of enterprises, since independence, the supremacy has always ended at the bottom with statistics on quality of life, housing and employment. The law we decide today offers two solutions. The company allows liquidation in accordance with legal regulations on the one hand and on the other, which, in the light of environmental and social challenges, plays a significantly more important role, offers the disadvantaged region an opportunity to renovate. The law provides for a change in the nature of the infrastructure used by the company in the past for its original purpose or to be shared with the local community. The transfer of infrastructure to the local community and the change of its destination to cultural, artistic, agricultural, tourism, economic and other activities will serve as a new impetus for the region and an opportunity to place many successful initiatives in the area and for social and other advanced forms of social integration. An important point of law that we confirm today is RTH’s responsibility to exercise environmental control on degraded areas until the company’s liquidation. The environmental problem remains and the adoption of this law will not disappear. Degraded and densely populated areas for Trbovljačany and Hrastničane are neither healthy nor safe. They must be managed conscientiously, professionally, in accordance with the highest standards and with a clear objective of ensuring the safety and health of residents and residents. What the law does not define is environmental control on degraded areas after its expiry. For the exhausted and for the health and safety of the dangerous parts of both cities, we will have to take care of the competent ministry, which we will be vigilant in Levica. The confirmation of the law will send an important message to the region of social and environmental poverty. If the capital has already relentlessly pushed it to the cross for years and years, at least the state will not throw pollen under its feet when the region itself collects from the ground so that it will not always be condemned to the volatile pressure until disability. As it is said, we will support the law in Levica, but we will insist on consistent environmental surveillance in degraded areas and a meaningful change in the destination of mining infrastructure to serve the well-being of the poverty-stricken worker, pensioner, prefector and youth. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With this, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, we have concluded by presenting the views of the Group of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, that is to say a bill on amendments to the system of payments in the public sector following an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to State Secretary Mojci Ramšak Pesec of the Ministry of Public Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u24	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has put in place a legislative procedure to implement one of the wage measures and other remunerations of public sector employees which have been negotiated through a recent agreement with the public sector trade unions. While most of the agreed measures have been implemented by the collective agreements and government regulations, a provisional measure in the field of labour performance was introduced yesterday by the amendment of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019. The amendment under consideration thus introduces a change in the promotion of civil servants and officials to wage classes and promotions to a title or higher. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the procedures and conditions for the advancement of public servants and officials in both wage classes and in titles or higher titles do not change. These procedures and conditions of progress remain the same as before. Public servants and officials will make progress as regulated by the applicable rules. The amendment to the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System only establishes a single date for obtaining the right to a higher salary in view of the advance to the pay grade or the promotion to the title or higher. Thus, public servants and officials will not earn higher wages as soon as progress is made, but will obtain the right to pay in accordance with the higher pay grade or title obtained or the higher title of 1 December of the year in which the conditions for advancement are met, i.e. 1 December of the year in which they have advanced. The suspension of the right to pay in relation to the higher wage class, which was achieved by civil servants and officials by advancing to pay grade or by advancing to a title or higher title on 1 December, has been established in the public sector since 2015, but this was a temporary measure agreed with the unions and established for each year or for a maximum of two years. With the proposed amendment to the law, the date of the acquisition of the right to pay according to the higher wage class obtained due to the advance to the pay grade or promotion to the title or to the higher title shall be governed as a permanent system arrangement, i.e. on 1 December for all advances made during the current year. The proposed arrangement for obtaining the right to pay in relation to progress made in wage classes and titles, which represents the delay in the right to pay in view of the progress made, represents an annual savings in public sector wage funds of approximately EUR 50 million. This measure, however, has provided a public financial space to negotiate the higher classification of individual jobs and titles in the public sector, i.e. higher evaluation of individual jobs. It is a matter of higher evaluation of jobs which, in the context of the negotiations with the public sector trade unions, have been found to represent an anomaly in the evaluation of public sector jobs, so that they are undervalued. As part of the negotiations with the public sector trade unions, there have been largely anomalies in the evaluation of individual jobs and titles, and individual jobs and titles in the public sector have been better valued.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u25	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. Mr Zvonko Černač is given the floor as Chairman of the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, which is the working body of the mother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished secretary of state, everyone else is present! At its 6th emergency meeting on 6 December this year, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Administration considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector System of Wages submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. Amendments were also tabled in the course of the course of business, with amendments tabled by the LMŠ, SD, SMC, Desus and SAB. A representative of the applicant, Ms Mojca Ramšak Pesec, gave an additional explanation to the article on the draft law, which is part of the set of normative basis for the implementation of the agreed measures with the public sector trade unions this year, as part of the agreement on salaries and other benefits in the public sector. As a result of this, there will now be no immediate fiscal impact in the year when these intervention measures are released, and a savings of around €50 million in public sector wages will be made in the same year. The representative of the Council of State, Mr Rajko Fajt, presented some of the debates and opinions expressed by the discussers in the consideration of the draft law at the meeting of the Commission of the State Council for State Procedure and stressed that the Commission supports the proposal of the law. In the debate, MEPs and members of the opposition first stressed that the fact that the solutions to the draft law are in line with the competent trade unions of public sector employees does not in itself mean that this agreement is good in nature. The proposed solutions thus far turn the interim legal measure into a permanent one, leaving their formerly valid link to the public financial circumstances achieved, which is the rate of economic growth achieved. Once acquired rights will now be lost, even forgotten, to save. They believe that it is high time that all the austerity measures imposed by the Public Finance Balance Act are completely eliminated. They also doubt that the proposed regulation is indeed a systemic solution, as it is a matter of content only and only a delay in payments next year. A new reason may be found in 2019, which may have further delayed this payment. They also wonder where the coalition agreement has left a comprehensive overhaul of the salary system of public servants in a way that will enable the award of public servants based on efficiency and effectiveness. They stressed that it is not true that an agreement with the Government was signed by all trade unions in the public sector. This was higher for a certain proportion, including the provision of no trade union representatives employed in the Slovenian Army and in the Police, where there is also the largest staff dropout among employees in the public sector. They also pointed out that the explanation of the amendment to Article 1 stated that the draft law was accompanied by a declaration of degree of coordination with the representative public sector unions, which was not possible to follow up on this item and was subsequently forwarded to the members of the Committee. On the other hand, MEPs and MPs from the coalition groups stressed the need to respect social dialogue, particularly on this basis the agreed agreements between the social partners. They also stressed that despite the significantly improved state and forecast of public finances in the Republic of Slovenia in view of the period during the last economic crisis, it is still necessary to ensure their sustainability. The representative of the applicant, the Secretary of State, confirmed the fact that the solutions to the draft law were, in fact, a measure achieved in the framework of the negotiations on the strike requirements of public sector unions and a systemic solution within the framework of the regulatory regulation of the public sector wage system. To the question of the total additional financial burden for 2019 resulting from the agreement concluded with the public sector trade unions, the Commission replied that the financial impact of the public sector trade union will amount to EUR 229 million in 2019. However, if no trade union agreement had been reached, all intervention measures would have ceased in 2019, both in terms of performance and in terms of progress in the public sector, which would have meant an additional increase in wages by around EUR 240 million. It also confirmed the fact that negotiations with trade unions in the Police and the Slovenian Army are still under way. The Committee then adopted amendments to the parliamentary groups of the List of Marjan Šarc, the Social Democrats, the Modern Centre Parties, the Democratic Party of the Slovenian Retirement and the Alenka Bratušek Party by Articles 1 and 2 and 3. At the conclusion of the meeting, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the draft law and adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Andrej Šushmelj has the floor on behalf of the Party's Group Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u28	Dear President, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The bill that we are deciding on today is a solution that has already been in force, but as a temporary measure, last but not least, it was laid down in the Law on Wage Measures and Other Labour Costs 2017. The proposer wishes to define this as a permanent measure by amending the law. This is a proposal whereby all civil servants and officials in the year when they meet the conditions for progress would obtain the right to payment in accordance with the higher pay grade due to progress on 1 December. This will establish a uniform system arrangements for the payment of the payment of the right to pay according to a higher pay grade, a name or a higher title. In its proposal, the government also stressed that the bill would have no implications for the state budget and would prevent an increase in public financial expenditure by around 50 million in 2019. Since the proposed amendment to the Public Sector Wages Act is the result of social dialogue and the majority of unions have given their consent, we also agree and support the law in the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Our view is that agreements with trade unions must be respected and that they must be made as many as possible in the future. At the same time, we must continue to strive for the sustainability of public finances, despite the fact that our country's public finances are significantly better than they were a few years ago. However, this law is some kind of ceasefire that has been causing turmoil since the beginning of this year, and we must be aware of the fact that the problems remain elsewhere. The fundamental disadvantage lies in the fact that now the current pay system is trying to get around 160,000 employees in the public sector on the common denominator. They are all on the same page: police officers, theatre actors, forestry engineer, surgeon, kindergarten nanny, administrative officer, researcher at the Institute of Joseph Stefan, accountant at the Maribor hospital and secretary of the Puconci municipality. All are subject to the same system for determining the basic salary, the same system for assessing performance, the same system for determining allowances. And this must be done by debirocratising the system, gaining more flexibility, allowing for the proper reward of good staff and appropriate sanctioning of the poor. In the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages, knowing that there is still much work to be done in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Robert Polnar on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The establishment of a permanent suspension of the payment of the right from promotion to a higher salary class or promotion to a title or a higher title for all civil servants and officials is the main purpose of the proposed legal amendment. A change is necessary in order to establish a uniform regime for the timing of payment of the right to pay when the conditions for progress are met. Thus, the regime, which has otherwise been applied as an intervention measure since 2015, has been transposed into the system law. Given that the intervention measures would expire at the end of this year and as a result, public servants would be entitled to higher salaries on 1 April and 1 May, it is imperative that this novelty be adopted if we are to prevent public spending from increasing by around €50 million in the following year. In the Desus Group, we are aware that the revenue capacity of the State budget is limited. We are most clearly convinced about this by the final budget of the country for 2017, which shows that the country's budget this year has been further indebted, in view of the previous year, for €1.6 billion, that the country can function at all. Caring for the sustainability of public finances in such circumstances cannot be a mere fluke of phrase. We therefore support the proposal to delay the payment of higher wages. We also support the supplement that we have adopted on the Committee and with which we have set an exception for cases where the title is the condition that a public servant in the new job can even start working. In such a case, it is, of course, necessary to provide that, according to the name obtained, higher wages are also obtained from the beginning of work in this workplace and not until 1 December. The most important point in this regard is that most public sector unions also agree with the implementation of a single system of time dynamics for the payment of remuneration rights in line with progress. Not all unions. This should be highlighted. Police, military and justice unions have not signed agreements with the government. The conclusion of an agreement between the social partners or the adoption of this amendment will achieve two objectives. The budget expenditure is estimated to be lower by 50 million euros. The agreement, however, is an integral part of a broader agreement that eliminates the causes of a potential strike wave of public sector employees. And that's essential. This is a measure that is coordinated between the Government and the public sector trade unions, and we will therefore support the proposal of law in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Dušan Šiško on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u32	President, thank you for your word! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The reason for the proposed single arrangement is to provide for a permanent delay in the payment of promotion rights to a higher class or promotion to a title or higher for all civil servants and officials, irrespective of the part of the public sector they are carrying out their work, and irrespective of the rules on which they have fulfilled the conditions for promotion, since the right to payment of the remuneration provided for in the promotion rule for the single payment system. The bill has no financial implications for the state budget and other public funds. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party agrees with the proposed law since the situation since 19 January 2019 is regulated on a system-wide basis uniformly for all civil servants and officials, namely the question of the right to pay on the basis of the payment grade obtained by the promotion of public servants and officials in the higher payment grade, title and higher title. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador! Ms Anja Bah Žibert has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u34	Thank you very much, presidents, colleagues and colleagues! A special greeting to the guests on the balcony! I'm not gonna be poetically inspired, just like my colleague at the previous marriage. Nor do I intend to repeat what is said in the proposal for a law on amendments to the Public Sector Wage System Act, because you have already heard it today, but you will probably hear it in some other positions of the parliamentary groups. But, Your Honor, this change is more important than what you imagine in the National Assembly. Its impact is wider and is also contrary to your promises, the coalition you have entered into in the coalition contract, and also with the words of your minister, that it is appropriate to reward public servants who demonstrate their effectiveness and ability. It is a question of whether we want effective public administration and motivated people working within it. Why does this proposal actually go to law? As from 1 January 2019, a regulation should be reinstated in order to allow public servants to be entitled to full payment of the increased salary in accordance with the progress made in the higher payment grade. That's not gonna happen. Today, the temporary measure in which we were forced into a time of economic crisis and urgent savings turns into a permanent one. In doing so, it leaves the pre-existing commitment that the measure applies to the achievement of public financial circumstances or the level of economic growth achieved. Despite the fact that today's public financial picture makes this possible, last but not least, the government, where possible, boasts that we are recording high economic growth and that the state-owned vanity is full and that public servants, except for the exceptions you have imagined, will not be able to make progress and gain what they deserve and have been promised. The argument that an agreement was signed with the unions does not mean that it is a good or smart solution. Last but not least, not all trade unions have signed agreements, especially those that represent employees in areas where the personnel picture is not only bad but worrying. This amendment to the law or the proposed measure to pay off the promotion will not save around €50 million. I am convinced that the government is saving on the wrong side for the benefit of an effective and motivated public administration. Qualified negotiators could provide these funds already within the framework of an agreement with trade unions that weighs around EUR 229 million. Last but not least, if we know that, for example, because of the non-implementation of the directive of the European Union in the same law - God knows how many such laws we still have - has been paying more than a year's penalty, about 8 000 euros a day, 8 000 euros a day or more, we are respected that due to the inadequate manner and late sale of NLB we have lost as much as 400 million euros, such savings are mainly in ridicule to those who have expected the new year to be fulfilled. Finally, in response and instruction to all those Members and Members who, on the basis of the Slovenian Democratic Party's legislative proposals as a mantra, repeat that our proposals for laws are weak, incomplete and non-systemic. Let's see. This law in question is adopted as a matter of urgency, although it is a very important issue. Marriage once is systemic, secondly it's not systemic. Next time, you stated in your amendment that the draft law was accompanied by a declaration of the degree of harmonisation and that you were not at all there. Since you don't read your own amendments at all, you haven't even noticed it, and I had to warn you. We then obtained a statement later. In the regret you have felt about this when you admitted that the amendments signed by you coalition MPs were written by the Government itself. Who's going to pay for this employee? So much for your suggestions, your approach and your operation. So much for the different policy you promised.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u35	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Ms Tina Heferle, Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. For the first time since 2011, the area of progress in public servants will be resolved by intervention legislation. After successful negotiations on wage levels in the public sector, wage payments are again governed by system-wide legislation, i.e. the Public Sector Wage Scheme Act. However, since the legal deadlines set for the promotion of wage classes and titles are currently different for different groups of civil servants, today's proposed amendment to the law certainly makes sense. As we have heard in the previous positions of the parliamentary groups, we have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, by which we will simplify the payment regime in the public sector in view of the progress in the higher wage class, in title or in a higher title. In so doing, the novelty of the single wage system continues to follow the other two fundamental principles, namely, the principle of legality and the principle of economics, or the prudent use of public funds. In other words, the right to pay in accordance with the progress made will be obtained simultaneously by all public servants, i.e. with December 1st in the year in which they will meet the conditions for progress. As today's amendment of the law establishes a uniform system regime for the timing of payment of the right to pay in accordance with a higher wage class, a title or a higher title, we will support the proposed amendment in the LMŠ Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u37	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mag. Bojana Muršič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u38	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! It is true that we have already heard a great deal in the Government's opinion today, including by the parliamentary groups, but nevertheless allow me to take the position of the Group of Social Democrats. The Act on intervention measures in the field of wages and other labour costs for 2017 and other wage measures expires in December 2018. After the expiry of that law, public servants would be entitled to advance to a higher salary class or title, from 1 April to 1 May of the following year. Personally, I think this would be the right thing to do, but it should be stressed that the public spending on the promotion of public servants would amount to around EUR 50 million. The novelty that we are considering today is coordinated with most of the public sector unions. It does, however, establish a uniform system regime for the timing of payment of the right to pay in accordance with a higher pay grade, a name or a higher title. This solves, at systemic level, the acquisition of the right to advancement and consequently the right to higher wages for all civil servants and officials who can advance with December 1st in the year when they meet the conditions for progress. Public servants and officials will make progress after the novel on 1 December of the year when they meet the conditions for progress. And it's not true that there won't be a promotion. Social Democrats will support such a proposal for a new law on the public sector's wage system mainly because the proposal for a new law is aligned with trade unions and is linked to the final negotiations on the resolution of strike requirements. And what is very important to us is that it is a solution for a longer period of time. In doing so, we hope that this forecast of a longer period of validity of this provision will also endure, as a public servant must also know when he can count on progress. Of course, on meeting the conditions. But it is not that this possibility is constantly being passed on to them in some unorthodox future. Clear planning of his career certainly affects his employment, interest in additional education and, last but not least, the possibility of obtaining a higher salary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u39	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u40	I thought that at least in the presentation of our positions we would have clear concepts, and I see that we will not give up here with the mantra that we started and, I hope, end up on the committee. The fact is that in the past governments, regardless of the ideological indication of these governments, there was at least one rule: if the social partners agree on something, the Members and the National Assembly do not interfere, and this is respected without discussion. This was the case in the governments of Janša, which was the case in Drnovsk's governments, the Pahor's governments, but I cannot say that this is the case in this call of the national assembly. In particular, when one or the other who discuss and present their views today discuss in spirit, when it comes to bad decisions, with a fig in their pocket, it is a non-systemic action. In short, they repeat things that, if they were to run the government themselves, they would be happy to accept so that they could close a certain story. More. They even talk and convince everyone, let's open the wallets, the money's enough, the little ones are full, let's spend everything we can. Who said in a time of crisis that when you have one, you have to show off? I only remember Prime Minister Janez Janša, who said the most. Now his party in Parliament is speaking quite the opposite, because I would like to be liked. The other thing that seems crucial to me is that we should draw the line very clearly in the future, regardless of the ideological affiliation, the view and the view of the individual parliamentary group. Members have no right to interfere with the agreed social partners. It is a democratic institution that has been acquired when the two sides can agree on how to respect each other, because the only two will have to respect this agreement, not the Members. This is this fundamental difference and this achievement that we actually have. Of course, this does not mean that Members cannot interfere with this matter. Yes, you can. But when they don't agree. That's an essential difference. Many would say - what about the minimum wage, but did we respect that? There's never been a real deal there. And I hope that goes for everyone. Finally, let me say that we will never land in the SMC in this way. We'll support the marriage. In local terms, those who listen to these famous titles and phrases, which many people don't even understand, actually, what they mean, very much by their domestic simplification, instead of the month of April, or the month of May, or the month of September, are all placed on the common denominator of December 1st. Which means everything will happen in the same year. Of course, some say, why don't we put it that way, on September or May? Because then part of these burdens would be passed on to the following year. It is a word - word game and a misdirection of individuals who do not support this law. You will hear them say: “We support social agreement if it is good.” So, they're meant to decide what's good and what's not. And secondly, to respect the agreement, they will say, and then they will not vote in favour, but they will even abstain. So much for their honesty. We'll support it in SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Boštjan Koražija has the floor on behalf of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u42	Thank you. Dear President, honourable Members and Members, all present and respected in front of small screens! The changes to the law in the public sector wage system are a result of an agreement concluded between the Government and the public sector unions. We understand that this is a matter of agreement and compromise and that this makes it difficult for him to oppose. But even if it is a solution that is the result of an agreement, it does not mean that the solution is good. What exactly is the purpose and purpose of this law? The measure introduced as an intervention austerity measure shall be transformed into a permanent measure. Even though there are no more reasons to tighten the belt. So we do not eliminate austerity measures, but turn them into permanent measures. The delay in the payment of the higher salary that public officials receive from progress and where the country saves EUR 50 million at annual level will become a permanent solution. As we have seen in the past, austerity measures, once they become permanent solutions, are virtually never spoken of again. In the next negotiations, this automatically means weaker negotiating points on the workers' side. If we have always read in the intervention laws that this is a austerity measure of 50 million a year, the second year of this data will be no longer the spirit or the hearing. The same has happened, for example, by raising the distance from the job over which the worker is entitled to reimbursement of travel costs or by reducing the regression for lunch. Zuif predicted both of them as a permanent solution. Even though 350 million euros have been saved from the adoption of Zujf to this day, this saved amount is simply no longer discussed or eliminated. The same will happen with the delay in paying higher wages. To be saved in this way at the expense of public servants, the government will simply forget. But the other problem is in the very beginning. Despite the extremely positive financial picture, the Government continues to implement austerity measures. The temporary measure, which we are going to turn most into a permanent one today, is worth €50 million per year. The cost of purchasing 4x4 armoured equipment for NATO's needs has only increased from €15.5 million in the last month to €32 million. And that's not even the final price. What is yet to happen to the total of €1.2 billion that the Government will jointly spend on additional weapons?Oh, my God! Such a policy is simply unacceptable. On the one hand, it is taken from people, and on the other hand, it generously devotes money to the netting of conflicts in the immediate and distant surroundings. In Levica, we will not oppose the amendment of the law on the public sector's wage system. It is difficult to oppose the law which is the result of the agreement already reached with the public sector unions. However, we cannot support it, as we oppose the continuation of austerity measures, but even more so the transformation of intervention temporary austerity measures into permanent measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As the last on behalf of the parliamentary groups, Mr Blaž Pavlin, the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u44	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The government bought time again. It will receive one year at the expense of public officials and public officials who will receive a higher salary from promotion rather than on 1 April or 1 May only at the end of the following year, regardless of when they will meet the conditions for progress in the year. But watch out! However, public servants who will be transferred to a post where obtaining a title or a higher title is a condition for carrying out work will still receive a higher salary from this title immediately upon transfer. And that's not fair. Let us stress that this is not a solution that would fully regulate the public sector's salary system, which would allow for a fair reward based on the efficiency and commitment of public servants. Today's novelty of the law only brings about the fulfillment of the strike requirements of public sector unions, with which it is in a great hurry. Systemic solutions shall not be taken into account by means of an emergency procedure, which shall be taken into account when the country is threatened with severe remedial consequences. Does the legal right of employees to progress really pose such a threat? Absolutely not. We are talking about 50 million euros that should be allocated in 2019 to pay for advances to the higher pay grade. The intervention law on wage measures and other labour costs for 2017 and other public sector measures only applies until 31 December 2018. This means that the level of arrangements applicable before the imposition of the intervention measures under which public servants are entitled to the full payment of the increase in salaries due to the promotion of April 1st or May 1st. In Novi Slovenije, when adopting this intervention measure at the end of 2016, we stressed that the Government cannot prepare any structural reforms. It only acts in the field of the economy by extra burdening it. During the crisis, the Slovenian economy lost 90,000 jobs. Do you know, a respected coalition, how many jobs were abolished in public administration at that time? We can count them on the fingers of one hand. Until the burden between the economy and the public administration is distributed evenly and fairly, such measures cannot produce the desired effects. The fact is that in the area of wages for 2017 we discussed only the infamous Zuyfu, which has brought concrete effects to the state budget so far. We Christian Democrats believe that the Government, through better organisation and rationalisation, could create additional resources for internal transfers between individual consumers. Measures such as those today will not balance the budget. The adoption of today’s law also brings additional burdens for the congregations. The higher average will not be sufficient to pay for all advances in education and primary schools and the state will not provide additional funding. Local self-government is one of the regular things that works in our country, and it's very good. Why, then, do we impose additional financial burdens on the congregations in all areas and impose more obligations on them? Meanwhile, members of the coalition parties are proposing without reservation a larger number of new state secretaries in the ministries, which is sad. We have no assurance that at the end of 2019 the Government will not seek again the reasons for delaying payment of advances. In New Slovenia, we will not oppose the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the proposal will then be held today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is the defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Auditing by Emergency Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Method Draganjo, to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The bill before you is designed to ensure the transposition of the provisions of Directive 2014/56 on statutory audits for annual and consolidated accounts into Slovenia's legal order. The so-called Audit Directive lays down the conditions for the granting of licences to persons carrying out mandatory audits and their registration, the rules on independence, impartiality and professional ethics applicable to those persons and the public control of them. The revision Directive at European level is complemented by Regulation 537/2014, which operates directly in the Member States and lays down requirements for the implementation of the mandatory audit of annual and consolidated accounts of public interest entities. The partial transposition of the audit directive was carried out in the work relating to the audit report and the audit committee in the amendment of the company law as of August 2015. However, the remaining provisions should be regulated in the law governing revision. Despite the scope of the amendments, the proposed amendment does not change the concept of the basic law. The primary objective of the novel is to regulate the EU's legal order in this area. Auditing is a specific economic activity carried out for these specialised and qualified audit firms or specifically for these educated and specialised authorised auditors. The role of the authorised auditors is to confirm the company’s accounts, which is to provide stakeholders, such as investors, shareholders and others, with an opinion on the correctness of the company’s accounts. The broad community of persons and institutions relies on the quality of the audit. For this reason, the mandatory audit contributes to the proper functioning of markets by improving the integrity and efficiency of financial statements and by reducing risks. In order to better protect investors by means of a proposal for a law, we strengthen public control over authorised auditors and audit firms, so that the current dual supervision by the Slovenian Institute for Audit and the Public Audit Agency of the Republic of Slovenia is fully transferred to the latter. The Agency was established as an independent public supervisory authority in the Audit Act 2008 and became operational in March 2009. The Agency’s primary mission is to exercise effective public control over the quality of the audit and the performance of other tasks and powers laid down by the Audit Act, the European Audit Regulation and other laws and regulations. The deadline for transposition of the Directive in question expired on 17 June 2016. Unfortunately, these delays occurred not as a result of the inactivity of the Ministry of Finance, which initially proposed solutions in the proposal for a completely new law on auditing. Due to major differences, particularly in the work of the proposed amendments to the value assessment area, it has joined the drafting of a bill sent for consideration by the National Assembly in the previous term, but the legislative procedure has not been completed. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has re-examined the proposal for a novel in this mandate and submitted it to the National Assembly with a proposal to deal with it following an urgent procedure. The amendments that have been tabled also improves judicial protection, which is also explicitly pointed out in its opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service. Any further delay in the final transfer could lead to difficult remedial financial consequences for the State, as a fine would be imposed on the State by a judgment. On the basis of such adverse consequences, we propose that the National Assembly should support the law, as tabled by the Government, and the amendments tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u47	Thank you, Secretary of State. I give the floor to Mr Robert Polnar, President of the Committee on Finance, who is the parent working body for this law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 5th urgent meeting on 4 December this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Audit Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. At its 16th meeting, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be considered on an urgent basis. The Committee received the following additional material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the letter from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the draft law was tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups of amendments to Article 26 of the Law and the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group of the Amendment to two articles of the Law. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the State Council, the Agency for Public Oversight of Auditing, the Slovenian Institute for Auditing and the Legal and Legislative Services attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained the key objectives and solutions of the bill and said that the draft law should be adopted as soon as possible due to the delay in the transposition of Directive 2014/56 of the European Union. It further explained in detail why there was a delay in the transposition of the Directive. In its written opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention to three general comments on the scope of the amendments and on their scope, on the use of nomotechnics and on the issue of lack of judicial protection. It also drew attention to the comments that had been corrected by the amendments tabled and pointed out that some articles still contain warnings. The representative of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance presented the Commission's written opinion and said that the Commission does not support the proposal. The Director of the Agency for Public Auditing explained in the introduction the reasons for the need to adopt a proposal for a law. It clarified the role of the Agency and the issue of the inadequate legal basis for the Agency's monitoring fees. She said that the Republic of Slovenia was the only Member State of the European Union that had not yet transposed this Directive into its legislation. It considered that the aim of the proposal was to improve the quality of the Agency's services and improve the confidence of service users. The Director of the Slovenian Institute for Audit also initially clarified the position on the proposal for a law and stressed that the proposal for a law also regulates other areas and that it is not just a transposition of the directive. He mentioned a lack of legal certainty and drew attention to the consequences, as the Slovenian Institute for Auditing, after the adoption of the law, would not have jurisdiction over audits, which would also have international consequences. The discussion drew attention to the inadmissible delay in the transposition of the directive and to the related financial implications, to the extensive changes in the novel, to the imprudentness and inadequacy of the bill. They also pointed out that the law is adopted by emergency procedure and that the proposal for a law is not in line with all stakeholders. In the opinion of some members of the Committee, the draft law provides for excessive amendments to the amendment and a new law should therefore be drawn up. On the other hand, some other members of the Committee felt that the proposal for a law should be adopted, as certain amendments needed to be supported, and in particular that the financial penalty paid by Slovenia was not negligible. They felt that this area should be addressed as soon as possible. In the debate, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance provided additional clarifications and answers to Members' questions. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has considered all the amendments tabled, both the amendments of the coalition's sent groups and the amendments of the SDS Group of Members and all the amendments adopted. At the end of the discussion, the Committee, at the proposal of a member of the Committee, Mr Pogačnik, voted on a proposal for a decision that the draft law on amendments and additions to the Audit Act was not suitable for further consideration. The Committee did not adopt the decision by 7 votes to 9 with 9. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador! I take your word as chairman of the committee and give it to you as representative of Desus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. I have seen the availability before, and I have prepared myself for this, so in this case I will not greet you and thank you for your word, but it is still appropriate to say hello to the Members and Members of Parliament! It is only at first sight a marriage that has a really dry content, but has a hell of a financial impact. So, ladies and gentlemen of the Members, the implementation of amendments and the addition of the Audit Law are necessary and necessary. This is by no means merely the possibility of transposition of the European Compulsory Audit Directive for annual and consolidated accounts. It is true that the deadline for transposition of the Directive was 17 June 2016. Two and a half years later, in Slovenia, we succeeded in bringing the text of legislative changes into Parliament. The reasons for such an unacceptable delay could be discussed long and late, but there could be nothing to conceal the dysfunction of the executive branch in particular, but in part the legislative branches of the authorities in this particular case. The impression is that everyone has raised their hands to overcome indifference and indifference without seriously considering the monetary damage that this is causing to the State. Ladies and gentlemen, auditors have an extremely important role to play in the capitalist economy. Not only by controlling the movement of monetary and financial flows and assets in companies, their importance is further reflected in strengthening control over risk management in financial institutions. We have very poor experience in this regard. During the financial crisis, auditors were able to ensure that the quality of their work was questioned and, above all, their impartiality was questioned. The need to rehabilitate Slovenian banks with taxpayers' money is convincing proof that this doubt is justified. Quality audits are essential for economic stability and market confidence as they ensure the reality of the balance sheet statements and the resulting multilateral business and financial stability of economic operators. The law, as we accept it today, is therefore crucial for the organisation of the audit services market in Slovenia. Strengthening the powers of the Public Audit Agency is essential if we are to eliminate the current duality between the private institution and the public agency. Focused control at the level of the State Agency should ensure more effective control over audit firms. Who, then, is the one who revises the auditors? We share proposals for legal solutions in two sets – those applicable to all audit companies and those applicable to statutory audits of public interest entities. Entities of public interest are companies with securities traded in an organised securities market – credit institutions and insurance companies. A public interest entity shall also be a company bound by a statutory audit in which the State or municipality has a direct or indirect share, or a separate majority ownership share. More stringent auditing rules also apply to public-interest entities. In this respect, it has laid down in particular that the same auditor cannot revise them for more than ten years. It is therefore a matter of establishing a mandatory rotation of auditors. For the discharge proposals applicable to all audit firms, it should be pointed out that stricter requirements for the independence of auditors and audit firms are in place. The independence of the auditor is essential for the quality of his work. The Desus Group will support the proposal of such a bill on amendments and additions to the Audit Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now I'm taking your word for it. You don't get a third chance. However, Mr Jani Ivanuša, the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors, is given the opportunity. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u52	All present, Mr President, Mr Dragonja Methods with the staff, a nice greeting! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is proposing to the National Assembly in a letter from 8. 11. 2018 proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law should be dealt with in an urgent manner in order to avoid the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of a country which could have arisen if the law had not been adopted in a timely manner. The deadline for transposition of the Directive has already expired 17. 6. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication In order to further postpone the transposition of the provisions of the Directive into the Slovenian legal order, there would be difficult financial consequences for the State, while the sentence of the judgment would impose a daily fine of EUR 7 000 986.60, which would increase with each day of further non-transfer of the provisions of the Directive. Attention, the opposition didn't write that, that's what the government wrote. The government of Marjan Šarc, which saves the government of Mir Cerar, is expected to threaten Slovenia with difficult financial consequences for the functioning of the country, according to the current government. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party proposes that the Government draw up such a proposal for a law that would only mean the transposition of the directive into our legal order. This would avoid financial penalties. All other amendments to the law, which are also important, should be proposed a second time. The guidelines of the Law Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in paragraph 128 state that it is more appropriate to cut down under the new law instead of the novel if the scope of the amendment is closer to the amendment of a third or a lot more of the scope of the law. The bill amends 79 articles, 20 articles are deleted, adding 19 new articles. That's more than half, not just a third. Why is it that the government does not follow its own guidelines, why does it force the novel, even though it should draw up a new law? The legislature stated that a proposal for a new law regulating auditing should be drawn up in accordance with the rules of the nomotechnicians. Why do we have legal and legal work? Will the National Assembly take it into account or will it again ignore its reasoned comments? The legislative and legal service also drew attention to the very poor judicial protection in the proposal for a new law. Furthermore, they further point out that Article 115, which provides that a court in a court of justice shall, as a rule, decide without main consideration, is inconsistent with Article 6 of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. So why are you making an unconstitutional proposal for a new law? Who will be responsible for the damage that Slovenia will have to pay again for violating certain rights? The draft law often gives rise to the term of the Agency's expert council, which is not regulated at all in the draft law, nor by the Law on the Public Agency nor by the proposal of the law, do you specify anywhere that the Agency for Public Auditing would have such an expert council and do not determine its composition. The government in the draft law did not even take into account Article 147 of the Constitution, which states: “The State by law prescribes taxes, customs and other duties.” The amendment to Article 31 of the Audit Law 2 does not make it clear how the fee or refund referred to in this Article is to be fixed, but in particular for which tasks and the criteria under which it is to be determined. Furthermore, it is not regulated to impose an act on an individual debtor. Therefore, for this Article, it has already been established in advance that it is incompatible with the Constitution. In its opinion on the proposal for a law, the Legislative and Legal Service made additional comments to Article 24 of the Law in addition to general comments. Obviously, the bill is poorly prepared. I'd like to know who the author of this bill is, with his name and surname. The draft law is not supported by the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Tourism, Crafts and Finance. We will by no means support the draft law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Andrej Šircelj, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u54	Thank you very much, President. Representatives and representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The two governments are late for 913 days to adopt this Directive in order to actually apply this Directive. Each day costs 7 000 986.60 euros, that of course means 7 million 291 000 euros in fines, almost 7 million 300,000 fines, which of course is not a small amount of money. We could do a lot of things with that money. And then, of course, we get the second time in the National Assembly a law that was not discussed for the first time, that was in March 2018, it is true this year, not because the Legislative and Legal Service made a number of comments. Among other things, a fundamental comment is that 79 articles of the Act of 176 articles of the Law are amended and a new law is written legally, nomatechically, professionally in such a case and does not change the existing law. However, the government of Mir Cerar, the former government, like the government of Marjan Sarca, do not follow these professional directions, one does not follow; the other does not now follow. But it is true that if we look at those who are signed under this law, if we release the Minister and the Secretary of State, the others are actually the same people who prepared this law in both governments. In other words, history repeats itself, and as a result, we receive bad marriage and bad and untransparent legislation in the National Assembly. But it's not on purpose, it's on purpose. Why? Because revision is still an important activity in today’s world. How important it is, the most demonstrated fact was when the last crisis began. It started in America, and then one of Arthur Andersen's biggest audit services fell through the night. Why did it go down? Due to her non-professional, irregular, perhaps intentionally misleading audit reports. And in Slovenia we also paid for the financial crisis with 5 billion banks, which were audited and there were no major irregularities. The Agency did not detect any major irregularities in order to create something such that something was rejected that the bank should correct something in order to have to correct its financial statements and so on. And now, in fact, history repeats itself. We are getting a law that is imprecise, which is unprofessional, which is inconsistent with the profession, under pressure that it should be accepted, because we are paying penalties because it is 913 days late, these are two years and a half, ladies and gentlemen, they are delaying two governments, and now this is before Members as a fact: Accept or do not accept, but if you do not accept, be aware that you will then be responsible for the payment of the further damage that is being done here. No, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are responsible for preparing an expert proposal for the law, you are responsible for preparing a harmonised proposal for the law with the profession! And you didn't actually do that. This is why we will not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Ms Andreja Zabret is next to present the position of the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u56	Dear Vice President, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The audit industry was hit by criticism at the outbreak of the crisis in 2008, overlooking a gap in the balance sheets of banks and financial companies at systemic level. The European Union has therefore adopted a revision directive in 2014 which will ensure greater independence and better quality of the work of auditors in banks, insurance companies and securities companies. Unfortunately, we still haven't moved to our legal order in all this time, so in February, the European Commission brought an action in which it demanded a daily fine of almost EUR 8 000 for Slovenia from the date of the judgment. The key objectives pursued by the proposal for an amendment are not significantly changing compared to the law in force and are: clarifying the role of the authorised auditor, strengthening the independence and professional care of the authorised auditor, facilitating the cross-border management of mandatory audit services in the EU, contributing to a more dynamic audit market in the EU, and improving the supervision of authorised auditors, and coordinating audit controls by the competent authorities of the European Union. It is therefore measures that will strengthen the revision, which we believe has an important impact on the transparent functioning of the economy, on its effectiveness and stability. The current solutions to the amendment are intended for the early transposition of the directive, and it is likely that the amendment will be initiated as soon as possible after the adoption of the proposal for a new amendment to the Revised Law, as the need for this has already emerged in the past. Of course, all relevant stakeholders must be invited to do so. For these reasons, we will support the proposed law in the Group of Members of the Letter Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The next is the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, the position will be presented by Mr Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor! We are considering amendments and amendments to the Audit Act today following an urgent procedure in order to transpose, as soon as possible, European regulations and directives adopted to simplify the rules of auditing in the Single European Market. Uncoordinated legislation and different rules across countries were one of the main reasons for the financial and economic crisis that broke out a good decade ago. The new common European rules were adopted in 2014 and the deadline for their transposition into national law expired in mid-2016. This delay is also the main reason for adopting amendments to the law by emergency procedure. In the previous mandate, a proposal for a new law was prepared that would fully regulate both the field of auditing and the area of value assessment, which we supported in the Group of Social Democrats. Regrettably, however, a number of contradictions and interdepartmental inconsistencies have not led to the consideration of the law. Instead, a decision has been taken to prepare only the necessary amendments to the law, which constitute the transposition of European directives, and thus the established standards, which are higher than those laid down in the Directive themselves, must not be reduced. On the basis of this decision, the amendments and additions that we are considering today have been prepared. The key amendments introduced by the bill are mainly linked to the unification of the rules on statutory audit, which are binding on large companies and public stakeholders. Important innovations are also in the area of licensing and supervision of auditors, where the Agency for Public Oversight of the audited assumes a significantly more important role. The Slovenian Institute for Auditing, a private institution which has for many years taken care of the education of auditors, the granting of licences and the development of the profession, will have fewer powers in the future, as it is not permissible to grant public powers to private organisations. The bill brings very complex material to ensure the fundamental compatibility of Slovenian legislation with Europe. In this way, Slovenia will avoid penalties in the European Commission procedure. However, with the adoption of the law, we will not yet achieve optimal regulation, which will require much further coordination and patience. However, it will be imperative that we design our arrangements by ensuring strict control over the revision and evaluation activities, as anomalies in this area, as we have seen in the past decade, can have serious consequences for the real lives of ordinary people. We would therefore like to make more efforts to coordinate in the preparation of such proposals and show more courage in the design of solutions. This is the only way we're going to come up with an arrangement that will provide the results we're looking for. However, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will unanimously support today's amendment and the amendment of the Audit Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u59	Thank you, too. The next is Mrs Mateja Udovč. She will present the position of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u60	Your Honor! The new Revision Act is another stone in the mosaic of harmonisation of European law. It brings to Slovenia the amendments to the Compulsory Audit Directive for the annual and consolidated accounts adopted in April 2014. We are considering the amendment as a matter of urgency because we are already seriously late for its implementation into our legal order. This should already be done on 17 June 2016. We do not want today's debate to focus on identifying the responsibility for delays and the appropriateness of addressing the draft law under urgent procedure in the Group of Members of the Modern Centre. The responsibility for the delay is shared by both the National Assembly and the Government. We are aware that, given the scope of the changes, it would be more appropriate to draft a new law, but the Government decided to amend the existing law this summer in view of the initiation of the European Commission's procedure before the Court of Justice of the European Union. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we would like to point out that the adoption of the law is necessary, not only because of the transposition of the directive and the punishment that threatens us, but mainly because of the improvement of the quality of the audits, the supervision of auditors and the restoration of investor confidence. All of this is of exceptional importance in view of the weight of the auditing of the accounts in the market economy. The new audit guidelines are due to mistrust and doubts about the credibility and reliability of the audited accounts and the affairs arising after the last financial crisis. The excessive leverage of large audit firms on the market has also been highlighted as a risk. In this regard, we would like to draw attention to the recent bankruptcy of the second largest construction company in the UK, which has built many important buildings and infrastructure projects for the country. The British Parliament even launched a parliamentary inquiry into bankruptcy. The Commission of Inquiry, which examined the reasons for the bankruptcy, also found that it had occurred because the audit companies had done their job poorly. In the UK, there is still a public debate on how the operation of the large audit quarter could be reorganised, particularly because it is in the interest of all that audit services are fair. In Slovenia, too, we have witnessed quite a number of affairs in the past regarding audit companies which carried out audits in major Slovenian companies. You will recall the revisions of Mercury, Save, SCT, Vegrad and others, when the auditors later employed in these companies, lost their memory or proved that the audit reports were exactly the same and that only the name of the auditor changed, or that their audits were cancelled and could still be listed. On the basis of these facts, we support the proposed strengthening of the role of the Audit Agency as the supervisory and regulatory authority. The Agency will also take over part of the tasks of the Audit Institute so far, as self-regulation has proved insufficient. In the light of the strengthening of audit control, we have also supported the additions of the opposition SDS parties, which extend the range of public interest entities which are subject to stricter rules than other entities. We also supported the additions of the same opposition parties to extend the period during which audit companies have to keep audit documentation from six years to ten years. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we are convinced that the introduction of stricter requirements for ensuring the independence, professional diligence and accountability of the authorised auditors and audit companies, strengthening the powers and powers of the audit agencies, public oversight of the audit profession and the renewal of the sanctioning regime are necessary and necessary. That is why we will support the proposal of the Law in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The following will present the position of the leftist group, Mr Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u62	Thank you very much, and thank you very much. In Levi, we support the basic intention of the revision bill, which seeks to regulate the functioning of audit houses whose credibility was questioned throughout the recent crisis around the world. Since 2007 banks have revealed huge losses on their balance sheets in Europe, reports of audit houses that have proposed positive provisions to banks have proved to be completely unworthy. For this reason, the novel, which defines at least some of the minimum standards on the competence, independence and skills of audit houses, is of course welcome. The initial proposal submitted by the Government was unacceptable to us by giving a very narrow definition of public interest entities – the SJI, which included only entities trading securities on a regulated market, credit institutions and insurance companies. The definition of public-interest entities is particularly important because it identifies those entities subject to statutory audits where audit houses have to meet stricter criteria of expertise and independence, such as mandatory rotation of auditors, restrictions on audit fees, broader audit reports, the establishment of a list of banned audit services offered by auditors to audited entities and so on. The original definition of SJI excluded state-owned companies, SDH investments and DUTB claims management investments. With the amendment to Article 2, the coalition finally established a reasonable scope of the SJI, which includes shares companies, credit institutions, insurance companies, pension companies and companies in which the State has an indirect or direct majority share. We will support the amendment in Levica because it introduces stricter control over the audit of these companies. However, it should be noted that the novel does not introduce satisfactory regulation of the market for audit houses and does not interfere with that segment of the operation of audit houses, which has proved to be the most problematic in Slovenia and elsewhere in the world in recent times, namely value assessment. Remember the flat-rate assessments of the hole in the Slovenian banking system, which were made in 2013 by the alleged international audit house Oliver Wyman and Roland Berger. That their approach to assessing the capital hole of eight Slovenian banks was something wrong suggests only the fact that their estimates differed by as much as a billion euros and a half. On the basis of their flat-rate estimates, Slovenia has deposited billions of euros in tax money into the banking system. The proposal for a law of such scandals due to non-compliance with the process of assessing the value of auditors does not prevent. International audit houses such as Oliver Wyman can easily meet the formal criteria prescribed by the bill, but this will not prevent them from doing the harm we have witnessed in 2013. Much work will therefore be needed in the future in the area of regulation of audit houses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Reberšek will be presented as the last position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u64	Dear Vice-President, Government representatives, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The new law on auditing, which we are considering today, has a very long beard. We have considered a similar proposal in the last months of the previous mandate. On 6 March this year, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, on a proposal from New Slovenia, suspended the consideration of the law due to a number of ambiguities in the amendment of the law by a vote of 9 to 4. The legislative procedure was therefore de facto terminated. The proposal before us today is largely identical to that of the previous term. We recall the definition of the audit obligation, which still includes a voluntary audit, at least Article 14, paragraph 3, states: “Obligatory audit” shall be the audit of individual or consolidated financial statements, if required by legislation and audit carried out at the request of undertakings not bound by a statutory audit.” We believe that it is completely unreasonable to evaluate an optional and voluntary audit. I also find it unreasonable to prescribe working hours for the work of audit partners who must be involved in the audit with a total of at least 15% of the working time. The number of working hours of staff with less than two years of experience in auditing in the audit group may be up to 25 % of working time. We estimate that this regulation of working time brings more problems than benefits. It also seems unjustified to us to extend the ban on the provision of services which could threaten the independence and impartiality of auditing, even for a period of one year before the start of the audit. For the Directive requires independence during the period covered by the audited accounts and during the period during which the statutory audit is carried out. In addition, the Regulation prohibits the provision of certain non-audit services only during the period between the beginning of the revised period and the issuance of the audit report. We also find it questionable that provisions that say that supervision of audit firms and authorised auditors can also be carried out at the premises of the contracting authority. In view of the fact that all the audit documentation must be kept by the audit firm, we consider that the exercise of supervision at the contracting authority's premises is disproportionate. The revision law contains 176 articles and the amendment of the same law contains 111 articles, which means that the amendment changes a large majority of the existing law. Of course, everyone wonders whether it would not be more transparent and more appropriate for regulatory changes in the area of statutory audit regulation to be addressed by a law that would be completely new. The legislative and legal service has pointed out in its consideration of the labour force that some amendments to the coalition follow its comments and, among other things, the unresolved comment on the limitation of the right to appeal remains a matter of concern to us. In view of the above, we will vote in the New Slovenia Group against the proposed amendment to the Revision Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u65	Thank you very much! We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the MPs LMŠ, SMC, Desus and SAB. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. Yeah. I'm opening for this debate and asking for an application. Reported by one discusser. Mr. Mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word! In fact, one amendment to the coalition is proposed. This amendment of the coalition refers to the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party which was adopted on the Committee. The Slovenian Democratic Party's amendment was to extend the mandatory audit to those public economic services, it is said that it is compulsory to own it where the State or the municipality directly or indirectly owns it. This is the first part of the amendment, so to speak, substantively speaking. And then another amendment, that this should enter into force on the day of the entry into force of the law or when the law actually enters into force, should this happen. As a rule, this is supposed to be 1 January 2019, which is next year. What does the coalition do with its amendment? Otherwise, in the views of the groups of Members, it is also commendable that an opposition amendment has adopted, narrows down this provision, narrows down the provision that only those companies where the majority owner of the state or the local community or the municipality are required to do so. Most, in other words more than 50%, look at this amendment. Which means it is not in the interest of this coalition and this government to actually remain companies to extend this review and so on and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not what you can now say that you have supported the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which you are now cancelling by actually diminishing the importance of this mandatory review and bringing this only to the social majority of the country or local community, the respected Government. Moreover, you also suggest that this solution does not apply as of 1 January 2019, but as of 1 January – watch out for this dictatorship, how little of a frivolous dictatorship – the years that follow in the implementation of this law. Amendment 103a. Article 1. Paragraph. Too frizzy. This is not 1 January 2019, ladies and gentlemen, this is 1 January 2020. Who doesn't care? Who must prepare, esteemed Government, for this audit? Which societies are the ones to prepare? What companies took time? Agency, which companies took time? Look, it's a simple hoax. And if they do not like this to enter into force as of 1 January 2020, they will come again with some urgent procedure to make the country burn if this does not change. And they're going to move this date maybe a little bit further, and maybe instead of a majority share, they're going to give 75% further. See, this is not fair to say here, a respected coalition, how you support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, that the revision will be more frequent, that it will expand, that it will be for more societies, that it will be a safer society, that it will be a safer society, that it will be a safer society than a whole, because it will be reviewed by certain companies owned by the State and local communities, and on the other hand you simply change it with an amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I now ask you, a respected coalition, here you are signed, here you are signed by the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca, the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, the Group of the Party of Alenka Bratušek: Do you defend all of this? I ask you, Members and Members of Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, here you are written, your signatures. Defend, tell me, dear fellows, why you're doing this. Why are you doing this? Who told you to do this? Tell me the reasons why you're doing this, please. And not then say something to support something if you extend and change the same deadline. So, see, with this audit legislation, a lot has been going on for the last two and a half years. That's why we're paying, as I said before, over 7 million. People are responsible here with names and surnames. They're responsible. These ladies and gentlemen are more or less one and the same for the last two and a half years, a little change from chair to chair and so on, otherwise one and the same. The parliamentary group agreed a week ago, a few days ago, with the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, today at one time disagrees, all of these Members, this coalition. Why not? What happened in those ten days? Have you reported any meetings with lobbyists on this? At the government, the ministry, at the agency, you reported some meetings with lobbyists at the time that this changed, that the State Secretary on the Committee on Finance said: “Yes, we support the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the amendments, the government supports” and then the coalition backs up. [[…]] The other Secretary of State is here now, but he's not supported. I mean, at least give some explanation, substantively, but one that will be on some foundation, where it will be determined whether or not some can't do it – at the time it wasn't said that someone can't. What's the reason? If this is done by the Government or you, Members and Members of Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, do so, you are signed under this amendment. Look, let's at least play a fair game here, okay?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Dragonja, Secretary of State, has made his statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! With regard to the debates and criticisms that have been made to the amendment of the law and to the questions raised regarding the amendments tabled, I would like to point out first of all that the Government is aware of the great delays in the transposition of the European Directive into the Slovenian legal order, that these delays are unacceptable, and it should also be said that these delays have been largely inherited by the existing government from the previous government. In my opening statement, I emphasised that the Ministry of Finance had been very active in this area since the deadlines for the transposition of the directive began, but today our assessment that the Ministry had set too high targets, too ambitious targets, because it had approached the drafting of the new law and had also addressed areas that were not required by the transposition of the European Directive, in particular this area, not only related to the revision, but also to the evaluation of the value. And because of the type of professional and other interests associated with these licences, with public powers, the granting of these licences, the concept of a complete overhaul of the scope of the audit and the areas of value assessment, despite the fact that it was confirmed by the previous Government, it did not receive adequate political support and unification in the previous parliamentary session. We have heard very well that the Government has made little effort to harmonise these different interests. The ministry and the expert team working on this have put a lot of effort into this, but these interests simply could not be reconciled. Finally, the president of the home labour force in the previous parliamentary session simply decided that it would not be possible to successfully conclude the procedure on this issue during the term of office of the National Assembly due to such a complex and complex problem. And it came to the conclusion that the legislative procedure had been suspended as the term of office of the National Assembly expired. The new government then approached a narrower concept, it is said, only to amend the law, which is indeed slightly above the nomotechnic standards, but it is also largely based on the fact that it has completely excluded the value assessment segment from this law. That is to say, if we also add up the deleted articles, then we go beyond that, but if we don't count the deleted articles, it didn't happen. These clarifications should be given. The problem is actually difficult. There are a lot of interested institutions, people who operate, have their economic interests, have their professional interests, have public powers, which are also partly opposing. There have been many lobbying contacts that have been reported by government services and the Ministry. One of the first lobbyist contacts reported by the President of the Government, Mr Sarec, immediately after his term of office, was one of the lobbyist contacts on the subject. This only demonstrates how difficult the problem is on the one hand and how important it is to find an appropriate solution and, in particular, the formulas so that we can effectively transpose European regulations into the Slovenian legal order, what all needed to be done. The novelty presented today guarantees all the key objectives required by the European Directive. It introduces appropriate regulation, sets standards over the activity, tight controls, defines how to grant licences, also provides judicial protection in the event of disputes, gives the Agency the opportunity to withdraw licences, and then to continue to do so in judicial proceedings. In particular, the role of the agency and regulation is being strengthened, as self-regulation, as set out in this dual system, has led to some additional risks in this area, according to the Government and the Ministry. This was also more or less the conclusion of annual presentations of activities and the results of works, both by the Audit Agency and by the Slovenian Institute for Auditing in the National Assembly at the home work bodies. This self-regulation is not in fact appropriate, but in the audit segment, well, now this strengthening of the role of the Agency is ensured, but I must stress once again that as far as values and this business segment are concerned, which has also largely been the basis for the risks in the banking system in assessing the value of their assets, but this part is not regulated, because it is simply because the Ministry of Finance has harmonised the conditions for the award of licences to authorised value-holders with the Ministry of Justice, and in this segment it has not been possible to achieve sufficient convergence of opinions so that these solutions can be covered by law. This area remains significantly less regulated than the initial ambitions of the Ministry of Finance. As regards the amendments tabled and the definition of a public interest entity, the Government supports the amendments tabled. The SDS amendment, as put forward by a colleague of the State Secretary on her working body, is a good one. The Ministry has commissioned the Public Oversight Agency to carry out an analysis of the effects of the expansion of public interest entities through the functioning of the Agency and through the operation of the entire system of auditors. On the basis of this analysis, it has been assessed and carefully considered that there is no point in each individual public undertaking in small municipalities to define the status of public interest, such as those with a small number of employees. This arrangement does not only require a more in-depth work of auditors, but also requires audit committees in these institutions, on the other hand, significantly more demanding approaches. In fact, on the basis of an independent analysis made by the Agency as a regulator in this area, an amendment is proposed which, in some way, in the reality of the time and the space in which we live, balances the requirements submitted by the proposer. And from this point of view, we believe that such an approach, that this status is somewhat confused, is not problematic. All those entities that are some major entities do not fall out of these criteria economically, practically. The criterion of majority ownership of the country has been added in cases of mixed forms of property, when private property is also present, we have estimated that private property will ensure an appropriate balance with the presence of the State, either the State or the local community as owners, and therefore the proposal has been made that the amendment put in place be further upgraded. As far as the time limit for entry into force in the transitional provisions for this law is concerned, it is necessary to base on the possibility that companies, the right auditors, are prepared to provide the necessary resources and that audit houses are also prepared to do so. We all know that the audits take place in such a way, not on 1 January and in two months, a whole series of pre-audit actions are carried out, the audit for the current financial year starts at the latest in the middle of the financial year, so that the auditor can issue the audit report within the time limits prescribed by the GDD, somewhere at the end of the first quarter. And it would be totally unrealistic to impose these requirements on these entities for the 2018 business year and the publication of such results in 2019. We believe that this is reasonable and that it will contribute to the ability of the companies that fall into this extended list to prepare themselves accordingly. However, the law itself provides that the register of public interest entities to be bound by these specific provisions shall be maintained by the Agency for Public Auditing and shall be fully transparent and clear on which companies will have to meet these conditions. And if there are any confusions about this, there can always be a request from the Agency for an additional company to be added to this list or this register. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm opening applications. The first reported is Mr Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In view of the fact that we have received an explanation from the Secretary of State of Mr Dragonje that the Agency has examined our amendment and so on, I would like to know how many companies would be subject to our proposal and how many companies are now following this proposal proposed by this coalition or now I do not know whether the Government or the coalition. Because it seems a little strange to me that the legislative body is saying that this coalition, Parliament and the amendment of this legislative body, Members and Members of Parliament, advocates the executive power. Look, this is a little crazy right now. According to the Constitution, we separate the legislature, the executive branch and the judiciary. And now this amendment, which has been tabled by Members of the legislature, advocates executive power. Colleagues and colleagues, please, I expect you to tell me. But once again, I will now ask the executive authority, because it seems to be the amendment of the executive power to tell how many of these societies are so and so on. And, see, that you've moved the matter for one year, ladies and gentlemen, that of course means that you don't want someone or an auditor to come in now to review these companies, but you've given the companies a simple time to prepare themselves to clean up a little bit, because 2020, January 1st will be just as problematic with this audit process, just as they are now going to clean up a little what the auditor doesn't need to see. This could be one of the reasons you made this amendment. I wonder, really, did you give these companies a chance to clean this up and give them this time?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Joseph Hrvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! Since it is an urgent procedure, I am sure that Madam Vice-President will not take the floor if I draw up the adoption of this law a little wider than parliamentary practice. I agree with Mr Dragoja, State Secretary, who says: “The delay is unacceptable”. Here I would now continue to develop a debate on who is responsible for this delay. We are not just talking about time delay, we are talking about some of the damage that has happened and will happen, it is also about financial resources. Indeed, as for every law in our New Slovenia Group, we have deepened into this law when it came to parliamentary procedure this spring, and then, on our proposal, on the proposal of New Slovenia, the president of the Finance Committee actually withdrew the law from the parliamentary procedure. Mrs Urska Ban, President, is an auditor, and she has understood so much more about what matter we are talking about. Today, it probably doesn't do us any good to analyze why, I believe, the Ministry of Finance wanted a new law, but the coalition didn't want it to be a novelty. I can give for all these peripherys, for this whole process around this law, which is a school case, how you can't, how you can't take the law. We can fire this government. It's true. She inherited the case. We can grant our discharge if the Secretary of State here gives us the commitment that this government will go immediately after its adoption, today the law will be passed into a new law, not a new law, not an amendment to the novel, but a new law. How, however, should users who enforce this law absorb it, how should they put it into practice? Very hard. And we Members meet in the field with officials in administrative units, of course also with auditors and so on, because where necessary, we report lobbyist contact and people tell us: “For God's sake, now stop adopting laws that are not enforceable. Help us, accept laws that we can understand and apply in life." When it starts, I don't know. I also do not know why there has been a sudden change in the position of the government on the committee – indeed, we have supported, at that time, the Government, the amendment to Article 2 of the Collegiates and colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party. Now, actually, all of a sudden, in a few days, in a few days, a different attitude. That's amazing. And on the board we listened by the government, reading a magnetogram: "Because of the European Commission's action against the Republic of Slovenia brought before the Court of Justice of the European Union due to the non-transfer of the revision directive, any further delay in the final transposition could lead to difficult financial consequences for the country, as the sentence of the judgment imposed on the State a daily fine which would increase with each day the provisions of the revision directive would not be transposed. In view of the seriousness of the infringements for Slovenia, the proposed daily fine of 7 000 986.6 euros, as from the date of the declaration, is currently EUR 7 000. End of line from the magnetogram. So about 8,000 euros a day. And no one has and no one will answer. Are we able, colleagues and colleagues, we, parliamentarians, recently elected to do such a procedure once, such irresponsibility end? We all promised, especially new leaves, new customers, that everything would be different from now on. I remember Mr. Marjan Sarc and I had some hope that everything would be different from now on. Yeah, it's true, it's an inheritance now. But if things are different from now on, then that means we want to know the names and names of those responsible. This unacceptable delay has a name and surname. And then we're fighting here to give the pensioners a little bit more ice cream a month to raise the minimum wage in a tiny way so that maybe a two-cent child supplement, caricature, raise and so on. This is where millions go, and this isn't the first law. Indeed, I will ask the Government to give us, for the last period of 5, 6, 7 years, accurate information on how much money, how many euros Slovenia has already paid in a few years' time, because no one or anyone in the government has done their homework in the ministries, and he has paid his salary. Of course, this debate is not popular, it's not populist. There's a lot of people looking at me now. But it's time, ladies and gentlemen, to start doing what's right and not what's populist. Of course, we also talked to representatives of the profession. This can also be seen from the reports of our KPK contact information, because we stick to the law. This profession tells us that it was simply not heard of, that it was not heard of. I do not know why the Germans could align themselves with the text of amendments to the law, their German, which did not include more than two parties in this so-called revision directive. Two sides. I don't know. I'm just asking. I do not know German law, but the proposer of this law must know it, as he also made an international comparison in the law. And how do we feel now, parliamentarians, when the branch of power has exercised pressure on us and, as I have read, on the board wave with 8,000 euros a day if we do not adopt this law as a matter of urgency. Per right now, today, this Friday. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the beginning of the end of parliamentary democracy. The government has us on the sidelines and the government is actually directing this National Assembly, Members of the people, what and how to do. This is the wrong world. Let's start if not today, at least with the new year different. Of course we will not accept this amendment, thank you very much. Neither does the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u73	Thank you very much! Since it's still an interest in the debate, I'm opening a new round of applications, so please sign in. The first is Mr Victory Jelinčič Tribal, as the second Dr Ange Logar, which I remind him that he has very little time at his disposal. Here you go, Mr. Tribalty.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u74	Thank you very much! We've got another piece of shit brewed by Cerar's government. 8 000 euros a day, that's the kind of money that would make a hell of a lot of money in Slovenia even if you split it up, there's only one 8 000 euros. The deadline for this Directive for adoption has expired 17. 6. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in And he's gone past 17. 6. 2017, and it went past 17. 6. 2018 and now 2019 will be any time. And no one gets hurt. Cerar was fucked for everything and his government, what's going on with our money. That's our money. The money of all citizens of Slovenia, of course those who work, not those who receive social support or migrants or who do not know who. Our money — those we work for. Calculate, 8,000 times 365 once again 365, and another half year. How much money is that? And no one gets hurt. Instead of punishing those who have done this and whose work is due to the fact that they have everything they have, once again, someone should be punished for the swine, not that he is rewarded by the fact that he is then an outside minister and a whole bunch of those people who participated in this horrible pig place and the crime of Slovenian, those working people. What are we doing in this country?Oh, my God! And how long will we suffer that all those who have done such things are simply privileged? No one can say anything to them, and what I am saying today will surely be accused of being a hate speech because I am telling the truth. What are we doing here? What are we going to do? Do you want France out here? Be glad that the Slovenian nation is too shitty to hope to go on the road, but once it burns down, it will go on the road worse than the French did. And I hope that then, too, the cops will not work against people, but they will go to the side of those people who pay, who work, who have nothing to survive. Imagine how many months someone could spend with this one-day penalty from those who have, say, 400 euros in pension or less because they can't live off it. Here, to the left, to the right, money flies anywhere. Shame! Shame! And these people are still walking around Slovenia and I don't know what they're bragging about. I mean, a man just can't have a word to say what a mess this is. Every normal Slovenian has to be hurt. This would not be possible in Germany, nor in Austria, nor in Austria, nor in Hungary, nor in Italy. Maybe it's just us, because some quasi-levitic, quasi-communist click all over the top here and don't let anyone say anything. If anyone wants to say what is wrong — hate speech. Come on, knock it off. Stop it once, give people freedom, give them a chance to work and lock up those who stole from them.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Jelinčich. The next one has the word of Dr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u76	Thank you, Madam President. With this amendment you have tabled, you are destroying everything that the previous solution has brought good into this revision. He apparently succumbed to the audit lobby's methods so that they could fish in the mud for the next six years. Please Members, do not submit to this lobby and reject [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. Logar. I ask whether there may still be an interest in this article after the discussion. The Secretary of State wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to say that I personally have not succumbed to any interest because I have not worked on this law, I have not worked on professional solutions. In this part, just an explanation. As for the question of the Magi. It's spreading, and then it's spreading. The assessment, based on the proposed SDS amendment, is as follows. The existing public interest entities in the Agency’s registry shall be 68. By criteria and by definition, according to the text tabled in the original amendment, this number would increase to more than 300 debtors, including micro companies. This assessment should be taken with a certain reserve because the Agency assessed companies with a majority ownership participation of municipalities, but it is possible that there are even more of them, but what the Agency has assessed is this. However, following the arrangements for the amendment, 154 economic operators would fall into this regime together, including a preliminary assessment, a framework assessment. Of this, the existing number 68 is increased by 46 companies owned by the majority of the country and by at least 40 companies owned by the majority of the municipalities. At Mr Jelinčič Trimenite's debate, however, it should be pointed out that, in the case of this law, the system of penalties still applies under the so-called old regime. This means that the start of the obligation to pay a fine will begin to run from the date of the judgment of the European Court of Justice. Notwithstanding this delay, penalties will not yet have to be paid if the legislation is enforced until the judgment has been delivered. It is therefore essential that the provisions of the European Directive be transposed. As dramatic the consequences as you have presented them, and in the case of this law, there will be no consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Logar has a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Please inform Mr Draganjo, Secretary of State, that he does not deceive the Slovenian public and Members when he speaks about the fact that micro companies are expected to fall under the mandatory audit. Don't hold it. Micro companies are not obliged to audit and would not fall under this list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr Logar, the procedural proposal is intended for procedural proposals concerning the Rules of Procedure. However, I will not go into the debate of the Secretary on a substantive basis. Maybe there's some interest in the debate? Just Mr. Horvath. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Nevertheless, the Slovenian public needs to know what time dimensions we are talking about. This so-called audit directive was adopted about 4 years ago, about 4 years ago. And that is why we are united here with the Secretary of State that these delays are unacceptable. It is true that we should implement it there by mid-2016, so the delay is good for 2 years. Here I would now have a very specific question for the Secretary of State. Mr. Dragonja, you are an important official at the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance, which is expected to consider a new law in the previous mandate, is said not to be a novel. Do you think at the Ministry that we would start right now by writing a new law in order to include the profession? However, when we talk about the profession, I also ask you to answer me about the status of the Slovenian Institute for Audit, which was established in 1993. It practically loses all powers and is also a member of the European Association of Auditors. How now, but we won't have a member there now? What's it gonna be like? What will be the status of the Slovenian Institute for Audit now? I'm asking for answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. Mr State Secretary has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that again. In answer to that last question. The profession has been included at all times on any written initiative or on professional proposals that have come to the Ministry of Finance, either meetings have been organised or written answers have been given, why certain matters are acceptable, what is not possible and cannot be adopted in such a concept of law. In fact, the former government, which has made a more comprehensive, complex law, the Ministry of Finance has put this law into coalition coordination, but the law, because of different views in the previous coalition, has not been supported, so the law has not been introduced into the parliamentary procedure nor has it been submitted to the government for consideration. Does that hold? Yes, my colleagues confirm. As far as the role of the Slovenian Institute for Audit is concerned, this law does not lose powers and it takes up certain powers that it has exercised following the current regulation and is transferred to the Agency in accordance with the principles introduced by the European Directive. It is said that this partial delegation of power is necessary in order for the provisions of the Directive to be effectively implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u85	Havela beautiful. If there is no further interest in the debate, we conclude the debate and put to the debate the amendments of the LMŠ, SMC, DeSUS and SAB to the new 103.a. Anybody want to talk? If not, we also conclude this debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, which is half an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. PERIOD OF THE DAY — FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE BUDGET’S SUPPORT LAW. The draft law was tabled by a group of 22 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. With regard to this bill, a group of 24 Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I therefore give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Zvonko Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u86	Say good-bye again! All in attendance, all in attendance! The building system is extremely complex and long-term in terms of legal regulation and implementation in our country. Since its adoption, the legislation has changed radically since its adoption, at the latest with the adoption of the Construction Law, which entered into force on 1 June this year. Despite some of the good solutions that this novel has brought, however, it has also brought new administrative requirements that have already been removed in the past. The World Bank's indicators show that the latest changes did not go in the direction of simplifying and shortening procedures, removing administrative obstacles and providing the public with access to procedures. Taking into account the classification of Slovenia on the World Bank scale in the context of the Doing Business reports in the area of obtaining appropriate building permits, we find a significant decline on this scale, therefore, a deterioration of the situation. In the report Doing Business 2012, Slovenia was ranked 81st among the 183 countries of the world, and in the equivalent report, which has the anniversary of 2019, it has returned to 120th place among the 190 countries taken into account. The number of procedures for obtaining appropriate building permits is estimated at a total of 17. The average time for obtaining all licences is 247 days. We find that the existing Construction Law in practice introduces a number of new bureaucratic obstacles and some unnecessary procedures. Of course, all these novels don't go away. One such unnecessary procedure is to obtain a valid permit for one-bedroom buildings. Taking into account the specificities of Slovenian one-bedroom buildings, we see that there is a clear tradition of self-building. What does that mean? In this case, the funding scheme is also adapted. People are building according to the financial resources they have at their disposal, and they are slowly building. For this reason, the requirement to obtain a usable permit before moving into a one-bedroom facility is non-life. In particular, if the use permit cannot be obtained without the execution of the facade of the facility as we have read in recent months, the administrative authorities shall act accordingly. This is the cost that most builders do not afford during construction, but they postpone it to the end when most of the building is already inhabited. Not only in dozens, thousands of buildings are in Slovenia, where people live for years and years in buildings without facades. The facility is normally used, it provides a roof over the head for many families, and when savings also allow for the execution of the facade, it is also carried out. In view of these complications, the Minister has recently issued a directive, a mandatory instruction to the inspection services to issue only a warning to single-party houses without a valid authorisation without enforcement decisions. However, this measure has only temporarily eased the non-lifelessness of the law, entails an additional administrative burden on the state, imposes some additional work, additional activities that are not necessary, and in particular preserves the administrative burden on investors. The most important principles of the bill are the principles of administrative burden and the vitality of legislation, namely our novelties. The current arrangement, which prevents housing in a one-bedroom building without a valid permit, takes into account the frequency of self-building in the Republic of Slovenia. The novel therefore removes the obligation to obtain a usable permit for one-bedroom buildings. We propose a solution that was in force in our country between 2012 and 31 May 2018. We are aware of the need for further amendments to the Construction Act, of course, as many provisions continue to make administrative and without substantive reasons difficult and hampering legal procedures for obtaining licences. In view of the government's opinion that we have received today, the law is unlikely to get a green light in today's vote, so unfortunately, as the legislative process shows, it will be closed. In this opinion, we read that the Doing Business report is not credible because it does not rank one-bedroom buildings, but focuses on the analysis of the conditions for the construction of a specific building, this is a medium-sized business facility, 150 square meters of a large two-storey warehouse, and therefore should not be appropriate. So. If we took a comparison of the one-bedroom building compared to some other countries, what I would say later, we would only see how low Slovenia would fall in this case. As for the rest, in an additional explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr State Secretary of the Ministry of Environment and Space Aleš Prijon for the introduction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u88	Nicely greeted! Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of the National Assembly! You have before you a proposal for amendments to the Construction Law submitted by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivice to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed amendment to the law with a view to reducing unnecessary costs for investors and removing administrative barriers provides for the re-existence of the requirement to obtain a useful permit for one-bedroom buildings, which, after six years of absence of this regulatory requirement, has been enacted by the Construction Law. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on that proposal is rejected for several reasons. The aim of the Construction Law is to protect the public interest, which is primarily in ensuring the health and life of people and the safety and security of buildings and their energy efficiency, as well as their compliance with urban rules, which are also intended to ensure quality living conditions and environmental protection. The requirements of obtaining a usable permit for one-bedroom buildings were historically seen as part of our building legislation. Comparatively, there is a certain form of administrative requirements for checking the adequacy and compatibility of single-house buildings in almost all European countries for such facilities. It follows from the media reports and reports of the Ombudsman that in the last six years, when the use permit for one-bedroom buildings was not required, there has been an increase in the number of abuses, particularly in terms of changing the destination of such buildings. At the same time, the professional public pointed out the emergence of a number of non-conformity buildings, which led the legislator to decide that it was necessary in the Construction Law to re-enact the requirement to obtain a valid permit before the use of the one-bedroom buildings. The new Construction Law simplifies the procedure for obtaining a usable permit for most buildings, including one-bedroom buildings, as it is issued without a technical review, on the basis of the documentation itself and the statements made and validated by the authorised experts. Its content is therefore merely to notify the completion of the construction and to submit the required documents. Last but not least, since residential buildings in Slovenia represent a large part of buildings, the requirement to obtain a usable permit to implement, in large part, non-conform buildings in large part, while also ensuring that the energy efficiency requirements of buildings, which Slovenia is committed to properly implementing from European legislation and other essential requirements of public interest, are met, such as mechanical resistance and stability, fire safety, hygiene and health protection and environmental protection, safety in use, universal construction and use of natural resources, and sustainable use of natural resources, are met. Undoubtedly, the area of construction is one where normative solutions and interventions need to be particularly careful. Matter is not to be seen through the prism by which public and private interests are on opposite shores. For the latter, it is crucial that checks are as low as possible in administrative procedures and that they are as substantial as possible. The public interest in this area is indeed the interest of all of us as individuals to create and maintain an orderly living environment, to ensure that our facilities are safe to stay, work and other purposes, and that, when these facilities are the subject of our investments, it is either construction or legal traffic with them, safe and aware that the objects are legally and effectively regulated. Let us not forget that for each individual, as well as usually legal persons, construction represents one of the biggest investments in life. It is inappropriate that, with such important decisions and consequences, the standards of real and legal security should be reduced under what the rule of law also requires for much smaller aspects of our life and work. On the other hand, this does not in any way oblige governments and administrations to seek solutions that are as viable, rational and proportionate as possible to the objectives pursued in this regard. In this light, in fact, we also see a proposal that you are considering today, honourable Members and Members, and that is why we are also looking at and assessing the effects of legislation, so that we can make the necessary adjustments. The issue of regulation of one-bedroom buildings as the most numerous buildings is also of particular importance here and, on the basis of the evaluation of the legislation currently in progress, some solutions are already being suggested which, while ensuring public interest, might further ease investors' obligations and burdens. However, these solutions will also need to be evaluated and coordinated with all participants in the construction process before any legal change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first is Mr Dušan Šiško, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u90	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear guests, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we decided to support the proposal for a law on the completion of the Construction Law, because the proposed amendment of the Construction Law to the investor for one-bedroom buildings reduces unnecessary costs, which is good for citizens, respected colleagues from the Government. At the same time, the administrative barrier to obtaining a usable permit is removed. As we know, the system of building buildings with aspects of legal regulation and implementation in Slovenia is a very complex nature, as well as a long-term process, which is not the end or the end. In addition, we feel that the whole Construction Law needs to be slightly overturned. This means that we do not just listen to constructionists and architects who are professionally involved. For we know that they work only for their own good. It is therefore necessary to listen to experts whom we have enough in Slovenia to regulate this law in an integrated manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Kepa is next on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Good bye to all of you! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the proposal for a law supplementing the Construction Law, which introduces the issue of a usable permit only at the wish of the investor of the one-bedroom building, and its acquisition is no longer a condition for its incorporation, good and appropriate. We estimate that the current form of law requiring a usable permit also for one-bedroom buildings is non-life, while investors are burdened with additional unnecessary costs and administrative obstacles. The fact is that in Slovenia there is a clear tradition of self-building and that construction usually takes place according to the financial capabilities of the investor. Therefore, it is not vital to prevent the housing of families who have built their own home gradually and by refusing to do so because, for example, they cannot take care of the facade of the building at any given time. The Minister's mandatory instruction to the inspection services to issue only warnings for single-family houses without a valid authorisation without enforcement decisions, does not eliminate non-lifelessness, but merely postpones it for a certain period of time. If we take a comparative look at arrangements elsewhere in Europe, I find that Slovenian construction legislation is much less favourable to family construction. It is rare that one - house buildings or family houses are required for both construction and maintenance permits. For example, Austria thus knows the concept of a smaller house, a house that serves exclusively for living, with a total area of up to 600 square metres and not more than 3 ground floors that do not need a building permit, only a notification of works. The application authorisation requirements shall then vary according to the countries. The Czech Republic also requires only notification of works of construction for comparable buildings and does not provide for usable agreement. German legislation does not provide for a usable authorisation either. In Poland, only an application for the notification of works shall be submitted for the construction of a single unit house and only the competent supervisory authority shall be informed of that after the completion of the works. Good practices that benefit family building are, therefore, a great deal. It would be good if we followed this in Slovenia. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The following will present the position of the LMŠ Group Mr Edvard Paulič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u94	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! The purpose of the Construction Law is mainly to ensure the health and life of people and the safety and reliability of the facilities, as well as their compliance with urban rules. The application for an operating permit was part of the construction legislation all the time, except for the period 2012-2018 when this requirement for one-bedroom buildings was abolished. Such an arrangement has proved to be inappropriate in practice, as potentially inadequate construction could endanger the safety of human health and life. Cases of construction contrary to the building permit have been found. As an example, let me mention the construction of a multi-housing building, despite the fact that the building permit was issued as a one-bedroom facility. Since the use permit was not prescribed, such cases were generally revealed only when the buyers of the property were experiencing difficulties due to construction. This lack of legislation has been pointed out by both the professional public and the Ombudsman. The construction law, which has been in force since June 2018, simplifies the procedures for obtaining a usable permit in such a way that only this is issued on the basis of the necessary documentation and statements of authorised experts, such as a declaration by the designer, a declaration by the responsible supervisory authority. Such arrangements replace the technical review and the finding procedure which were mandatory under the previous legislation. It also solves problems where the missing documentation cannot be produced backwards. In such cases, the missing documentation may be replaced in full by the statements of the authorised experts. With regard to the proposaler's findings that Slovenia has failed on the World Bank's Doing Business scale in the area of obtaining appropriate building permits, let me mention that the effects of the new construction legislation have not yet been included in the last analysis. Nor do the criteria for ranking countries cover the procedures for the construction of one-bedroom buildings, i.e. the area covered by the SDS proposal. In the light of the proposal made by Mr Sarca in the Group of Members, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The following will present Mr Soniboj Knezak's position on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor! The proposal for a law supplementing the Construction Law, tabled by Members and Members of the SDS, is already a second attempt to partially amend the existing law. Let us recall that we have already considered a proposal for a similar amendment of the Construction Law, at a previous meeting less than a month ago, on the proposal of the State Council. The bill assesses that the existing law needs to be amended as the new construction law is not intended to simplify procedures, remove administrative barriers and ensure the safety of customers in proceedings. They estimate that the existing building law in practice introduces a number of new bureaucratic barriers, unnecessary procedures, including the acquisition of a useful permit for one-bedroom buildings. With this addition, the proposers are expected to reduce unnecessary costs for investors and remove administrative barriers to obtaining a usable permit for one-bedroom buildings. In the Group of Social Democrats, we agree with proposals that would contribute to greater customer protection and the elimination of unnecessary costs and administrative obstacles. However, we must also be aware that any partial amendment of the law without prior evaluation of the existing law can be superficial and irresponsible. The competent Ministry of Environment and Space is already in the process of evalating the adopted construction or spatial legislation, the aim of which is, in practice, to revive a regulation that will be in line with the highest professional standards, but which would be at the same time life-friendly and people-friendly. It should be borne in mind that the purpose of the Construction Law is to protect the public interest, which, in particular, is to ensure the health and life of people and the safety and security of buildings, as well as their compliance with urban rules aimed at ensuring the quality of living conditions and the protection of the environment. An usable permit shall be obtained if the essential requirements laid down are met and the facility complies with the building permit issued. It is worth noting that the requirement to obtain a usable permit also for one-bedroom buildings has always been part of the building legislation and that most European countries have certain administrative requirements for such facilities with regard to checking the adequacy and conformity of buildings, including one-bedroom buildings. As it is said, the Social Democrats expect the competent ministry to carry out a comprehensive evaluation of the implementation of the construction law in due course and to prepare a proposal for amendments and additions that will, in an appropriate manner, remedy any possible shortcomings in the law. We therefore assess in the Group of Social Democrats that the proposal for a law supplementing the Construction Law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Gregor Perič is next in line to present the position of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u98	Thank you very much and very much! Let me start by saying that in the SMC we will not support the bill. About three months ago, the media reported on a family that had not been allowed to move into an unfinished house because of an unfinished facade. In the first place, the family had a plan to move into a house without a facade. But since the facade represents quite a financial contribution, they decided to make it later. At this point it was also stuck, since under the new construction law, which entered into force on 1 July this year, the investor must also obtain a valid permit for a one-bedroom facility. However, a valid permit may only be issued for a completed object. The user’s useful authorisation ensures that the facility is safe and does not pose a risk to the health and life of its users and the environment. However, an object without a facade cannot be considered completed under the applicable law. In fact, if the facility is used without façade insulation, this is a risk of moisture in the facility, sound protection is questionable and energy saving or heat conservation is not guaranteed. However, due to the unprotected object, a leak of moisture and water into the construction parts of the building may also pose a risk to the bearing structure. That is, of course, what we say in the long run. For this reason, as we have already heard today, the second amendment of the Construction Law in this mandate, if we are more precise, has not passed a month since the last novel was discussed. As we would like to say in our House of Democracy, it wants to fix or eliminate the injustices that have occurred, and today's paper suggests that one-bedroom buildings be exempted from the process of obtaining a useful permit before the use of the facility, which can only be issued at the request of an investor. At this point, I would like to stress the main point, namely that the Minister of Environment, Jure Leben, at the time he found out about the case of this family, issued a mandatory instruction to the inspection, following the principle of proportionality with a view to facilitating the transition to new legal conditions, as set out in the Construction Law. In accordance with this mandatory instruction, the building inspection will first issue an oral warning and then set an appropriate time limit to remedy these irregularities if it detects an irregularity. The deadline for remedying irregularities is recommended, for a period of one year, in the event of exceptional social circumstances, that period may be extended. The Ministry of Environment and Space has already announced systemic changes in construction legislation in the handling of the previous amendment of the Construction Law, and we believe that there is no point in taking partial solutions in the SMC. I would like to point out above all that the competent ministry headed by Minister Leben has already taken concrete steps towards better building legislation. As soon as he was aware of the difficult situation, the Minister acted and prevented the serious consequences that might have arisen, he announced even more, and then he carried out an evaluation of the construction legislation in the form of a survey. We are currently in the phase of expecting the results of the analysis, which will help to prepare an integrated revision of the construction legislation on the part of the Government. Given that the Minister has shown a great deal of commitment so far and has taken action to resolve things that remained unresolved for several years before his arrival, even for a longer period, we have no doubt that changes in the construction legislation will come to the National Assembly as soon as possible and, in particular, that they will be prepared according to the measure of the citizen. Therefore, in the SMC Group, we believe that there is no need for some partial legislative change at the moment. However, since we want to have comprehensive reforms to the construction legislation, it seems reasonable for us to wait for the government proposal. At the time of adoption of the improvements, the initial problem will not be affected by the consequences that would be harmful to people, so the law that we have today on the table, as I have already pointed out, will not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Željko Cigler will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u100	Your Honors are here! The proposal for amendments to the Construction Law removes the obligation to obtain a useful permit for one-house houses. According to the SDS, one of the applicants, the requirement to obtain a user-friendly permit before moving into a one-bedroom non-life facility. This SDS proposal would remove administrative obstacles, as we have all highlighted today. While the applicants know that you have instructed inspection services to issue only warnings without enforcement decisions for single-party houses without a valid authorisation. This means, in practice, that someone who has built a new house does not have a suitable place to live can move in and then obtain a valid permit and therefore does not pay any penalty, as the speaker has already said before me. The acquisition of a user authorisation is relatively simple, and this is essential. For all constructions, except in the case of demanding facilities and facilities having an environmental impact, the new law makes it possible to obtain a usable permit without a specific finding procedure and a technical review. In the procedure for obtaining a user authorisation, the investor must, inter alia, submit statements by the designer, supervisor and contractor that the works are completed in accordance with the building permit issued and that the essential construction requirements are met. All those mentioned for the truthfulness of their statements criminally and indemnity, clearly, are responsible. The applicants state that the acquisition of an usable permit is disproportionately a major administrative burden, mainly in terms of older buildings. That's not true. The owners of the existing one-bedroom property under the new law are not bound to obtain a user permit unless, due to the non-conformity of the use of the facility, it is possible to issue a building inspector. This proposes the inclusion of an inspection measure in the land register or the property register. In short, if you have black construction, you can't have it. It is also important to note here that there are several possibilities for the legalisation of incompatible and illegal measures that can be obtained under the Construction Law over the next five years, with the process of legalising facilities over 20 years of age being particularly simple. In short, with the use of a permit, the State in some way confirms that the buildings are safe. This is also important in one-house houses, especially in those that are not built by people to live in, but for those that are built by investors for sale on the market. People don't usually make more decisions about buying real estate than they do once in a lifetime. The fact that the house has a valid permit is essentially a guarantee for the person who buys the house and will live in it that it is in conformity with the building permit and all the safety regulations. And the lifting of the obligation to obtain a usable permit, for which the issuing procedure for single houses, as described earlier, is relatively simple, but for those who build a house for their own purposes does not issue an inspection decision with executions, constitutes a dangerous deregulation of the construction of buildings which may have very negative consequences for people, that is to say, this suspension of the acquisition of a building permit. But it's not a problem for investors who don't build houses to live in, it's to sell them on the market. This is the essence of the problem that we want to raise in Levica. SDSS Lapsus linguae. SDSS instead of SDS, to which Member Anja Bah Žibert responds. does not propose a law that would significantly ease people's lives and relieve them of administrative obstacles. The proposed law will relieve administrative obstacles to capital, namely those which are essentially guaranteed to buyers of one-bedroom houses that it is safe to live in these houses. That is why we will not support the amendment of the law in the left hand side.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u101	Thank you very much! Procedurally, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u102	President, that you will not say that I am talking about content, this is part of the procedure, in particular by naming the right parties in this National Assembly. Indeed, we are also being listened to by citizens and citizens, and it is very important that we be precise in this regard. If someone who reads the position can't read the abbreviations, then in the Slovenian Democratic Party, the SDS party, we suggest that he reads the whole word and names us by the name we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u103	Thank you, Madam Member, for your procedural proposal, which I do not think was, however. Mr Aleksander Reberšek now has the floor to present the position of the NSI Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u104	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Fellow Member and Members! In Novi Slovenije, we had many concerns about the adoption of the Construction Law. Today, only six months after the law has started to apply, we are in practice faced with non-life and rigid provisions, which do not mean simplifying the procedures, on the other hand, imposing a number of new obligations on investors and individual debtors who conduct the proceedings under this law. We have also said this in the proposal of the State Council, which last month tried to open the eyes of the government coalition, to tell her that the law is sometimes completely wrong. Such is also the provision that a valid permit must be obtained before moving into a one-bedroom house. This cannot be obtained if the facility does not have complete facade protection. Thus, the owner or user of the building cannot obtain a home number and register with the address of the facility until he has obtained a valid permit. This owner is prevented from moving into a completed apartment house that does not yet have an outdoor facade and meets all other requirements, in accordance with the building permit. It is true that the user’s use permit ensures that the facility is safe and will not pose a risk to his health and life, nor a risk to the environment. However, in New Slovenia we wonder whether such a provision is really necessary in law. We know that a number of people are in a hurry to build because of housing hardships and impossible living conditions, but they have one goal, which is to move as quickly as possible, even without the outside arrangements of the facade and the surrounding area. By moving in and applying for permanent residence, he also assumes certain obligations that he did not have as a builder. The Ministry of Environment and Space, by means of a mandatory instruction on the conduct of inspection, called for a construction inspection to give an oral warning in the event of irregularities and to set an appropriate deadline for their removal. This means that he somehow admits that the law has overemphasized the compulsory use of the permit of one-bedroom facilities. However, on our question last month, the Minister explained that the state only prescribes essential requirements such as mechanical resistance and stability, fire safety, safety in use, noise protection and energy saving and heat conservation. Indeed, the unfinished facade does not meet the essential condition of saving energy and maintaining heat, thus also violating European relations for the smallest possible use of energy. Buildings without facades are supposed to be the reason why Slovenia will not achieve its environmental commitments. We cannot accept such an argument from the ministry in Novi Slovenija. With all the words and promises of how the Government will simplify procedures and reduce bureaucratic obstacles, we cannot establish such a position. At the same time, the non-produced outer facade cannot be an essential requirement for obtaining a usable permit at the time of moving into the house, since this does not mean that the owner will not do so as soon as the wallet permits it. We will support the proposal to supplement the Construction Law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u106	Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! As in the previous regular session, we are also dealing with a proposal for a law that wishes to enter the Construction Law. As at that time, I must point out today that we do not support partial solutions in the Alenka Bratušek Party and that laws called for after renewal from several perspectives need to be fully implemented. And in view of the developments in this law, we must admit that this is one of them. This is how we have dealt with the proposal of the law earlier, which has tried to address the problem of some of the provisions that the notaries have pointed to. The professional public is also the one who makes it clear to the legislator that construction legislation changes too many times, thus creating confusion instead of greater transparency. So it is difficult to overlook that critics are large, but such a way of changing a piece or article at one time makes no sense. It will be necessary to wait for the evaluation of the construction legislation already being prepared by the Ministry and in which it will complement and amend the law. We all know that in November this is the subject of an online survey. We also hope that this survey will provide clear answers to where the users of the law are most stingy in practice and thus offer good points for the reform of the law. But let me touch on the very bill that we are discussing this time. The applicant shall provide an assessment of the situation on the basis of a World Bank report. In doing so, it is misleading to provide data, since it compares the length of time it takes to obtain a construction permit for two completely non-comparable objects. The report indicates the duration of the 247-day procedure for the construction of a warhouse, i.e. a book warehouse. According to my data, even a two-story building of a thousand square meters. The facility is so fire-breathingly compromised. Such storage in the proposal of the proposer is not a simple facility under any criteria and is not comparable in any way to a single-group house. To a certain extent, the provision that we are about to make is perhaps lifeless, and perhaps all of us can feel compassion for those who really do not have the financial situation to complete the house, or we could move in. The inviolability of the provisions in part also reinforces the fact that the Minister of Inspection Services is ordered to issue only warnings for single-party houses without a valid authorisation, rather than enforcement decisions, i.e. termination decisions. I completely agree with the latter. At the same time, however, I wonder how the public and the media would react if local communities built unfinished residential buildings on the current tape, for example without isolation, and put families in them. Who would answer in case of fire, moisture, lung disease? Is it fair that such an object can be in traffic in the same way as any other object that has all the procedures carried out in accordance with the knowledge of the profession without the customer knowing it? The SDS proposal removes the last construction document which provides this to each owner on a case-by-case basis – proof that the facility is constructed in accordance with the rules. It is also misleading to show regulations in other legal systems, such as Austria and Germany, and to refer to the operation of inspection services. In these countries of blacksmithing, non-compliant construction is virtually not due to the operation of inspection services. In view of the above, any changes to the regime should be taken very carefully. The construction law, after all, does not aim at itself, but protects the public interest and thus ensures the safety and reliability of buildings which must comply with the rules of the profession. And this one doesn't just exist to have one more bundle of rules anymore. The fact that unfinished buildings spoil the landscape, disturb the neighbors is difficult to overlook. But the more impossible it is to overlook the fact that they endanger the safety of health, the life of people and are energy inefficient. As it is said, we will not support the proposal for a law in the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek, but we are confident that the competent ministry will take note of today's debate and will take into account constructive proposals when amending the new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak will be presented as the last position on behalf of the Desus Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The new Construction Law entered into force on 1 June this year. The drafters of the law had the intention, inter alia, to relieve the administrative burden by renovating the construction legislation and preparing the so-called construction trio, and to allow a faster and shorter path to the beginning of the construction. The Ministry has already explained at the previous proposal of the amendment of the Construction Law that they are preparing an evaluation of the effects of the renovated construction legislation, which is of course a pleasure to us, and we are looking forward to what this evaluation will show, because after the completion of the evaluation we are expected to propose amendments to the Construction Law, which is nice and right. However, at this time, when we wait for the results of evaluation and the government novelty of the Construction Law, investors do not wait and, of course, build further. Members of Parliament, however, are faced with attempts to make partial changes to the applicable law, which are more or less justified. This novel of the Construction Law, which is before us today, is one of the ones in which we tend to support it in our parliamentary group. Whether we will support the proposal as suitable for further consideration, we will decide after the discussion is concluded when we hear the arguments of the applicants and the competent ministry for or against the proposed solution. It is therefore a proposal to exempt one-bedroom buildings from the obligation to obtain a usable permit. The current legislation exempts simple construction from this obligation and the one-bedroom building no longer belongs to simple construction. This means that it is necessary to obtain a valid permit to stay there. Let's see. Some family set up a house for themselves or with the help of experts, for their lives. She invested a lot of money, time, and nerves in this house. If we are finally able to enjoy life in it, they need approval in the form of a useful permit, which will add to the financial burden for this family. True, there is no innovation in our legislation in the use of permits for one-bedroom buildings. It is true, however, that this authorisation has not been required for the last six years. If we have the right information, the inspectors today also have a mandatory instruction from the Minister that single-house houses should be issued without a valid authorisation without enforcement decisions. However, we must be aware that the purpose of the construction law is to ensure the safety and reliability of buildings, that they are energy efficient and that they comply with urban rules. And when we listen to warnings from the media and even the Ombudsman, we can see that in the last six years, when the use permit for one-bedroom buildings was not required, there has been more abuse, especially in terms of changing the purpose of such buildings. At the same time, the professional public drew attention to the emergence of a number of non-conformities, which led the legislator to decide that the building law should reinstate the requirement to obtain a usable permit before the use of the one-bedroom buildings. So in our fellow Members, we are faced with a dilemma as to how to act. We tend to be somewhat more inclined to support the proposal of the novel before us today in the first reading with the assurance of both the proposer and the government that, in the second reading of the bill, it will be complemented by an obligation to add to the provision of Article 6 that a usable permit for a one-bedroom building should be obtained before the object goes to the market. So, before he goes on sale. In this way, we will protect those who choose to buy such a one-bedroom house from buying dangerous construction and thereby endangering their health, safety, and life. At the same time, speculators who build houses like on a liquid strip will also be forced to obtain a usable permit, often highly ineligible, as the only goal is to make the sale of real estate as high as possible. As I mentioned at the outset, it is only after the conclusion of the debate that we will decide whether we will support the bill as suitable for further consideration or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u109	Thank you very much. First of all, I give the floor to the proposaler, Mr Zvonk Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u110	Thank you for all your contributions. I think we need to clear up one dilemma first, because I think that many of you are in the wrong. Today, it has been repeatedly said that in the case of an application permit for an administrative act by which the state confirms that buildings are safe and that there is no risk to human health and life. That's not true. This usable authorisation does not confirm that. The use permit confirms that the building is built with projects as designed and notified for construction. Just that and nothing else. And that the standards that were notified at the time were respected. It's an administrative act. You are at odds with yourself, including the Secretary of State, when he says in the same breath that it is nothing but a notification of the completion of the construction and the submission of the required documents, which were already submitted at the beginning of the construction at the time of the acquisition of the building permit, and then only the statements of those who participated in the process. So it's bureaucracy. It's an administrative act that doesn't protect anyone. Because otherwise, tell me who was being protected by the Kemis facility. He had all the applicable environmental permits. Not only useful, but also environmentally friendly. And it happened to us, Kemis. With all these papers – we do. How many single - group housing units have been given anything similar? She's burned to death because of the inappropriate heat, the installations, but that's what's going on. Probably the one who has obtained a useful permit in the past, because standards have risen and changed and built better and better in the last 20 years. So if we clear up this dilemma, it's easier to talk about content. This is a small, relatively small change in the law, which is very important to people. Which is very important for people because it eliminates some act, which also costs a substantial burden. This temporary freeze, the Minister's mandatory instructions to inspections, does not mean anything to people at all. They will have to obtain a valid permit in such a way. They can't get a home number without a home number, they can't register at the address where they live. So this mandatory instruction does not solve absolutely nothing. It postpones only some inspection procedure for an indefinite period and burdens inspection services where they should use energy to sanction what has been warned, czech, and novel 2012 has caused the Lumps to exploit it and to build multi-housing buildings under the building permit. This was not caused by the 2012 novel. The same has happened before, and the same will happen in the future. If the construction inspection, where there are dozens of employees, carried out its work in this area, and not in these unnecessary administrative procedures that do not serve anything, then there would be no such cases. Then there wouldn't be any of these cases. This statement of yours in the Government's opinion suggests that the construction inspection does not work. It's not working. It also does not work because it deals largely with administratively unnecessary things. This is not the problem with this provision. Historically, we have seen in this review, missing point 10, 2012–2018 when this matter was resolved, and my assessment has caused an administrative burden, but of course it has also allowed individual speculators to take advantage of this – but that is why we have inspection services. And you're arguing in this way that because of one speculator, thousands of people would be burdened by unnecessary means. Because I can't understand it any different. If I look at the comparable arrangements in the countries around us, mainly north of us, and also west of us, then I can find that apparently all these people there in Austria, in Poland, in the Czech Republic, live in dangerous objects in Italy and are in terrible danger that they will not all fall on their heads. For Austria, which has this arrangement, as far as construction legislation is concerned, differs from one country to another, for example, in the Austrian Styria notification of a one-bedroom new building – they have the concept of a small house – up to 600 square metres of surface and three floors, and the notification of the use of the facility after this facility has been completed, and legal certainty is ensured, on the other hand, that unnecessary administration is prevented. Czechs don't have construction permits for one-house houses. They don't have it. And they no longer have a useful consensus, just notifications. In both cases only notifications. Italy, one of the most well-known administrative and bureaucrat countries, in particular as regards these procedures, amended the legislation in 2016 when it implemented the declaration of completion of the construction. Report, notification. Thus, the investor notes that it has completed, thereby ensuring the legal security of the investor and, on the other hand, enabling the State to inspect what he was doing there, whether he did as he had reported or not. No number of procedures prior to and after the completion of the construction and, in particular, no strong costs which naturally follow this administrative procedure. Because you need to be aware that all these provisions in the legislation are not only problematic because of unnecessary administration, in particular because they are problematic, especially because they unnecessarily irritate construction. And they irritate construction especially to those people who in some way help themselves and build slowly, just as their resources flow and they can help themselves. These all build gradually, and when they come to a conclusion – look, I'm sure that everyone would like to do the facade first, when they put the byte, the front installations, the front pressures, the front pressures, but they don't, because some of them want to move into the building as soon as possible or to empty the apartment that they sold because they could even build, or for other reasons. So what would you say? [[…]] A little more of this empathy should be given to thinking about the proposed change, a little bit more of humanity, a little bit more of reality, not virtuality. Not everyone lives in a virtual world. People live realistically on these with both legs, and so they regulate their lives and, of course, they are further affected by each such thing. Especially if there are no arguments in what is referred to by some, in technical integrity, in ensuring security of residence and so on. Germany, which also has this competence, as regards the construction legislation left to individual countries, is provided for in one of these countries that there is no usable permit. Poland is something like the Czech Republic, there is no building permit for one-house houses and there is no usable permit, there are notifications. All these countries, therefore, I believe that they are based on the fact that they prescribe in legislation what guarantees some minimum standards in this area, and that they do not unnecessarily make life difficult for people, and that they do not needlessly cause costs to people. It is likely that if all those who have a long tradition in this area, and many others, have managed to regulate legislation in such a way that it is useful and, on the other hand, ensures safety standards, then I think we should be able to do the same. Not least because we're so regulated until 31. You've had five already. Then it is interesting to note that the new Minister ordered the evaluation of the new legislation shortly after his appearance. On 1 June it entered into force, people of God – and already evaluation. But I still understand that. But then the continuation of most of you: and based on this evaluation will be proposed necessary changes. How do we know that legislation needs to be changed if it is good? If you're saying it's okay? It was adopted recently, at 1. 6. has entered into force, evaluation is now under way and we already know that we will have to change it. We'll probably change it if it's not good. If it is good, we will probably not change it — is it so? In my opening remarks, I rightly said that some of the solutions in the legislation, we are now talking about the Construction Law, which entered into force on 1 June, are good. For example, a notification is a good solution to allow greater control. They're bad, too. And one of these is the one where, in the substantive sense of providing greater legal certainty to the builder, the investor does not mean anything, it just means additional costs, it provides additional work to some designers, engineers and others, and means an additional burden for the state and its employees. So these arguments that we are not in favour of partial changes, we are not in favour of systemic change, because if the problem is already in one such minor matter, how many more problems will there be when there is a need to change significantly more things. With our novel – this is the mantra of the left that you keep repeating in every law, on the one hand, you have talked about it, “we do not support the sale of the New LB”, now you support the Government that sells it. But it's only right that the sale is being made so that we don't get along the wrong way, but you were the one who supported the tycoon bank if it was a human disaster. It's not. It was a disaster that so much work had happened in it. Mantra about the fact that now with this novel we are unloading capital is said mainly by those who are building for the market – please. If there is a problem here, then I should also answer here to the representative of the Desus Group, who mentioned that, if the green light for this law, they would be willing to consider support. Let me tell him that we have no problem with maintaining a usable permit when it comes to market construction. Because it says now that an investor can get a useful permit if he asks for it. And that's one example. In such a case, I believe that the investor building for the market will request this permission because it will require it, I suppose, from the bank that it will be able to service this construction to the end and then release the credit line to the end. But there's no problem writing this down - if there's a problem. No, no, no. We're not talking about any capital, no speculators, any of this, we're talking about these cases that were reported this fall. The family can't move in. She sold the apartment, she can't move in because she doesn't have a valid license. These are the cases we're talking about. On the other hand, because of the new law, the sale of some properties stopped. So it's too bad. These are the cases we're talking about. I think it's a good idea to sort them out as soon as possible. So with regard to this proposal, once again, we have no problems. If the law will continue to deal with this – and I doubt it in the light of the views expressed today – then we do not have a problem to complement in this sense that, in the case of the construction of one-bedroom facilities for the market, this notification of the completion of the construction, a useful permit, is necessary. Let me remind the Desus Group that the 2012 amendment of this Act has been supported, and in this novelty 2012, this provision was exactly the same as it is being addressed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u111	Thank you very much, proposer. We have also started a general debate with MEPs and Members on the proposal for a law. The first representative of the Government, Mr Prijon, made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u112	Dear Members and Members! I would just like to explain some of the dilemmas or questions raised in these initial presentations. Mr Černač of the Slovenian Democratic Party mentioned the World Bank indicators. Other discussers have already responded to this and have explained that the case relates to the second period and the other type of facility, so I would not add anything here. He warned that this was an additional administrative obstacle plus the cost of these user-friendly permits. Here I should simply point out that this new law, which has entered into force, has entered into force 1. 6. These administrative obstacles and costs also significantly reduce for one-house houses, because the only requirement in the use permit is for the investor to deliver this documentation to the administrative unit after the completion of the construction, with the statements of the responsible supervisor and the responsible project manager, which is what he had to do in the construction itself. Because without the project, it was impossible to build and, of course, someone must also monitor the quality of this construction. So this has already been done in the construction itself and then it is only necessary to deliver this to the administrative unit and the administrative unit here issues a usable permit without additional costs and without technical review, which has also been terminated for these facilities by this new law. In doing so, I would point out that this request for an usable authorisation is primarily for safety. Of course, it is also the utility of the object itself, but mainly for safety, because the usable permit ensures that the object was indeed made according to plans. The building permit alone does not guarantee this. Building permit – we know that with the new law building permit is substantively similar to the previous location permit, that is to say, dealing only with the locational conditions of construction. The issue of a building permit only means that you can build about the same building on that plot. The fact that you will really build it and that it will also be built as it must be does not guarantee a building permit. This shall only provide a valid authorisation. Because in order to build an object at all, a project needs to be made for implementation. However, the implementation project must take into account all those basic requirements of the designed construction as foreseen by the law, and these are all requirements for the usability and safety of the facility itself. This is very important because Mr Chernač said that the usable permit is only an administrative act, so that it does not confirm that the facility is, that the buildings are really safe. In fact, this is confirmed by the use of a permit because of the fact that only a building permit is not enough. Several cases were then mentioned in the debate in the sense that there is a different practice in the European Union, that no usable authorisation is necessary. Here I would like to draw attention to the fact that in all these cases which have been mentioned, this means Poland by notifying works, Austria by notifying, Italy by notifying the completion of construction and so on, things are called different, but in fact it is the same thing as our license. After completion of the construction, they must also attach all the documentation and all the evidence that the building is indeed built according to all the regulations, and this somehow allows the use of this facility. So the process itself is practically the same as ours, it's just called different. Two countries in Europe, one not even in the European Union, this means Switzerland and Germany, but they have a very different system, because there is a very developed inspection and they believe that people do not come to the point of building anything other than the rules and documentation. So they are the only ones in the European Union who have a different way here. This means that they do not require usable permits, but that this control function is to be carried out by an inspection. Here I could only refer to this: mandatory inspection instructions issued by the Minister of Environment and Space. This mandatory instruction was intended only for situations where the facade had not been completed, but not if, for example, no other essential requirements had been met in terms of object safety. Because the fact that the object does not have a facade does not mean that the object is not safe, it does not meet certain requirements that it should meet, but only because of this fact can it become dangerous over time when there are some injuries such as these bearing structures. This guidance was intended solely to alleviate some social hardships for people who, in specific cases, cannot draw up this financial story in order to complete this building within the normal timeframe. Of course, they are considered and are expected to do as much as they can. So that this instruction applies exclusively to the facade lining, but not to all other requirements that the object must also meet, and these are in particular safety requirements. Because it is necessary to know that if the electrical installations are not properly operated, someone may die because of this, if the machine installations are not properly operated, someone may die. We had a case in Slovenia when people died of carbon monoxide. We must not allow this and, of course, it is the duty of the State to prevent this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač recommitted to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u114	I think you've assigned me in essential matters, but with regard to those where you're at odds with yourself, let me read you Wade's opinion. I believe it was written in your services. Here this opinion states: “While the technical review and the finding process have been mandatory so far, the new Construction Law simplifies the procedure for obtaining a usable permit by allowing the use of documentation to be issued in the case of all facilities other than complex facilities and facilities with environmental effects. Therefore, according to its content, the issue of a usable permit is only intended to notify the completion of the construction and to submit the required documents.” Where's the content here? As regards the countries around us, Poland: “A usable permit does not have to be obtained for all facilities, but only for those for whom a building permit is to be obtained and specifically listed.” [[…]] In the marriage of the apartment house, these buildings are not one of them. “The notice must be submitted to the competent construction supervisory authority at least 14 days before the intended start of use. At that time, that authority may determine that there are obstacles to the use of the building and issue an appropriate act. However, if he does not do so, a silent consent shall apply.” So, the story's reversed. People aren't needlessly burdened, not all of them. Not all of them. But we have the opposite story – we are burdening all those who are, and these are 90% or 98, they built everything as they should be, because we are looking for that 2% or 3%. Germany, you said yourself – German construction legislation does not require us to use it. Verification of compliance shall be carried out by the competent local authorities and authorised supervisors. And that's right. That's right. Without needless burdening people with unnecessary administrative procedures and preventing the normal use of facilities for which some have given up their entire lives.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Now we continue with the general debate. The first one has the word, Mr Robert Pavšič, and Joseph Horvat is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u116	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. In this proposal, it will now be difficult to weigh what good will bring what is bad. In fact, it is an obstacle to someone moving into an apartment or a house that is hard to build, and the use of a permit is hindered by the fact that there is no facade, perhaps a little lifeless. On the other hand, this prevents various distortions in the real estate market. In fact, the usable permit does not ensure that the building is safe but provides legal certainty, legal certainty for the investor. If this is all in the same person that he is an operator, an investor one person, then in fact he does not need these assurances. Many times, however, people do not know how to make their own house, and then they need — in fact, they need — a designer who prepares all the documentation to obtain the building permit, and they also need the contractor. If I have correctly understood this law, all three must make statements to the administrative unit in order to obtain a valid permit, and these declarations and signatures shall guarantee both criminal and indemnity. And that's legal certainty for someone who's put their life savings into building their own house. It may also be referred to as a bureaucratic obstacle, but this obstacle, in my opinion, brings more than it takes. Perhaps it would make sense to think in some other direction and to provide an exception not only for the sale, as mentioned earlier, of a colleague, but also in some other way so that as many of these anomalies can be prevented. I'm telling you, I believe there are a lot of people who get into this kind of trouble. On the other hand, this security guard brings much to those who buy houses on the market or give it to someone to do so in confidence in this system. We know for ourselves that in the real estate area in Slovenia we are not exactly pearls; we have huge black buildings; inspectors are too small; inspections are often ineffective. Therefore, not only the construction law but the entire system should be overturned. And I think that the Minister – what we were – was last visited by the Infrastructure Committee at his presentation – is well aware of these matters and these issues, also stated that the time for obtaining the building permit has been reduced from 220 and 217 to 90 days, thus reducing red tape. Now if an obstacle to the use permit is just these few statements, it's certainly not enough for me. Not enough because it brings more danger than it would bring benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The text is first by the proposer and then by Mr Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u118	First of all, the safety of the investor is greater if it has chosen inappropriate operators. This argument does not hold back because these same ones will sign a statement that everything is okay, the same supervisors. So there's no greater safety here. As for the other part, now the List of Marjana Sharca does not support this law, so that it will not get a green light, but if it were to have a green light, if the position was similar to that of Desus, then I have said it publicly today twice, and I say again that in such a case we understand these concerns and we accept them and propose that this article should be amended so that it remains that it is not necessary to obtain a usable permit in cases where the investor uses the house for his own purposes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Now, indeed, Mr Horvath has the word and Mr Boris Doblekar must be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! I think that, after a constructive, understandable discussion, I could have some closeness to let the law in the first reading into the second reading and then try to find a common denominator there. Today to say no to this bill because it is a partial solution, okay, I understand, it is partial, but today to say no to the life solution that we have on the table, but I don't understand that. And those who walk on the terrain that we are on the field during the weekend, when we are at home, of course we face specific problems. People come to us, even more, employees in administrative units come to us and ask us for an explanation. We don't know the explanation. We don't know how to give because it's so complicated. It's true, okay, the marriage is six months, about, but the problems are here. This is also what the media are writing about, at least the ones that I am particularly monitoring in the eastern part of Slovenia, but unfortunately I am not allowed to do advertising for any – but there are some. There's something about them. One such address in September: »Inanimate Construction Law: Accommodation in the house only when it has a facade. Under the new construction legislation, the transfer to an unfinished house without a facade is not allowed. The family “Now we must stand up and answer the question of who we are writing and adopting legislation. [[…]] For people? Yeah, for the people. And here: “The family that wanted to move into its unfinished house has come across an unexpected obstacle that prevents it and is now in great distress,” she found herself in distress, “so she must move out of the sold apartment.” Yes, of course, because finances are extraordinary, or the most important question is when you start building a house, is it not? I don't know who in Slovenia has half a million in his pocket, or 300,000, for example, for some one-family house in the countryside, and he gets hit on the key, but let's just say kids have to go to school, in some other school environment, of course. Do you have any idea what this is all about? “Pursuant to the new construction legislation, moving into an unfinished house without a facade is not allowed, but they do not have money for it now.” Does that ring a bell? You move in, you can't wait to move in, you sell the apartment to cover up the new construction, and you move in, and you say, "Yeah, okay, 'cause I'm gonna burn a little more chicken because there's no facade, the heat insulation is a little bit worse," but you move in because that's your life's goal. A man builds once or never, usually. “The building law, which began to apply on 1 June this year, does not speak anywhere about the facade, but provides that the use permit should now also be obtained for a one-bedroom facility.” I have nothing to do with this problem of having to get a license. And the fact that I do not forget, however, as an opposition Member, I have great hopes for the Ministry of Environment and Space, and, last but not least, the Secretary of State, Mr Aleš Prijon, if I am not mistaken, President of the Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia, which means that he has a lot of experience with what we are talking about, and I want to, I expect that this experience will translate into a novel of the Construction Law, which is bloody necessary. “The building law, which began to apply on 1 June this year, does not speak anywhere about the facade, but provides that the use permit should now also be obtained for a one-bedroom facility”, I repeated. “But this administrative unit cannot issue for an unfinished object.” I quote the statement of one of the administrative units, I will not issue it because you know the sanctions are here quickly: “If the facility does not have a facade, we cannot count that the works on the facility are finished, because in this case not all the essential requirements (15th Article of the Construction Law) are met, especially the protection against noise and energy saving, the preservation of heat and the use of renewable energy.” That's what they said on one of the administrative units. “Without the house number there is no residence,” and this is now, of course, linked to the admission of children to a primary school. “Without a license of use, it is not possible to obtain a home number, which means once again that there is no registration of a residence and no settlement of municipal matters on the non-existent address. At first glance, the smart requirement of the energy saving law is thus turned into inanimateness in the chain of requirements," ladies and gentlemen, inanimateness, "for which many are now cornered." So we MPs, those who pushed for the law, still generally the legislator of the National Assembly pushed a lot of people into a corner. Is that our goal? Especially in an environment where the facade was usually abandoned for a time when the family recovered somewhat financially from construction. Does that sound like a lifetime to you? Yeah, it's very lifelike. I can talk about it for a long time. “The solution to the search for marriage spruce is now the only option for many people, and one such is, to issue“, I don’t know if I can speak, but probably yes, “one such is the issue of a useful permit only for a part of the facility if it represents a functional whole.” [[…]] Plus, ladies and gentlemen, I'm out of time. Come on, let's open the door to this life solution and not see if it's a partial or a systemic solution now, it's gotta be life.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr. Boris Doblekar, to prepare Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Nice hello to you all! So we have before us a change in the Construction Law, which, by the way, has been in force since June of this year. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have assessed, at the initiative of the people, at the request of the courts, at the wish of those who build houses and those who have already built them and will also have problems in the future to obtain a usable permit, we have proposed or we will probably still be in the future, although our opposition role is more than just control, but we are still trying and we want to help citizens and citizens in every way possible. [[…]] In our opinion, we can also help the coalition, the government, in short, our assistance is welcome, but we always run into the resistance again, and any proposal we propose, let it still be so good, somehow encounter resistance and not get support in the National Assembly between you, honourable Members and Members. Of course, you have proposed and raised the minimum wage and so on, in short, there are many mouths full that we have to help less paid workers, that we have to raise various things due to a lack of money, and on the other hand, when we propose a change of legislation that would cost these people their lives, especially small people, we face resistance. What helps you to raise minimum wages and various transfers and social benefits if, on the other hand, we impale people at every turn? In this amendment to the Construction Law, which in our view is very necessary and very lifelike, and people also want it, it is therefore a change to obtain a usable permit. People work hard and build one-bedroom buildings that are not cheap. Not everyone can afford to build expensive buildings with expensive performers and so on, and a house built on a key, but it builds here gradually. The house begins to build gradually, people have some savings, most also get credited and go gradually into this building and can't wait to get to some stage in this building when they can move in; especially young families. It's mostly about young families. They want to move into their house as soon as possible. On many occasions it is heard that people cannot build, do not know how to build, and so on, do not follow, so do not build according to the building permit and so on. I think that these are some flat-rate estimates, years and years, decades and centuries, thousands of years of housing and houses are being built, and I think it's so little humiliating here that we can say that people can't build houses and that we must therefore introduce restrictive measures and constantly amend some legislation that is not just additional bureaucracy and administrative obstacles. Already, people, especially young families, have a lot of problems at the beginning when they want to build houses, especially in the countryside, in farms, in their homes, where they grew up, not to go at that pace or the way in the former South, when we moved or somehow forced, or almost violently forced people into cities — people would stay in the countryside and build houses. And they have a lot of complications to even get to the surfaces that are going to be wally. Here are the long-term procedures for the adoption of municipal spatial plans and then the act of co-legislators and so on. We also know that we have 17 procedures for obtaining appropriate building permits. 17 procedures. And that the average time to get all the permits is 247 days. This is very important information. As far as this self-building and housing is concerned, I think that this acquisition of a license for use is a major obstacle and, of course, we are not helping people. Now people are going to build these apartments on credit to the last detail, to the last detail, and to wait until they can move in, so someone can give them this utility permit. I've known a few cases since before. Here you are, too, the Government has stated in its reply in explanation the whole history of how these procedures have been carried out, how the legislation has been regulated. And you started there far or somewhere in the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia and went through the Socialist Republic of Slovenia and so on and come to these days. I think we should be more reliant on the future and be more lively, no, but what it was like, that's what we are, I don't think, not interested anymore. Let us work on modern laws, laws of measure, especially those of small people and those who have very difficult to afford any kind of construction. In your explanation, you explain why the Government will not support this, although I must say, as some have already mentioned, that Minister Leben is working in every way to prepare good legislation in various areas, including in this construction, for which he should also be commended, I also commend him from this city. However, this law was passed in June and many corrections are needed, and you yourself have said that it will have to be corrected, that it is not right. In particular, I would also like to draw attention to this explanation by the Government that once the use permit was lifted in 2012, the safety of human health and life was jeopardised. I mean, I don't know any cases, or I haven't heard from him, that this would put people's health and life at risk, or I don't know what those cases are. People build up, move in and live. And they're answering themselves. And an example from other countries across Europe, which has already been mentioned by counterpart Cernac on behalf of the proposaler, in particular by the Secretary of State, mentioned the case of Switzerland and Germany and said that it would not come to the point of being able to work against the building permit in order to be incompatible. Of course they have inspection services, and so do we, and let's go this way. Why should because of that percentage, two, three percent of the people who may have used and built on black or in conflict with the law, with the building permit, all suffer? I think that this system of bedding from the former South, when everyone was lined up, the whole company for one – I don't think that's necessary in 2018. Perhaps I would also mention here that if the state, the ministry, the government wants people to build according to Ozir, we all want to do this, but if you want to make this even more noble, more emphasis and make people get used to it, because many of the previous times have been used to building a little so, little so, but we have waited a little while, and it was done in black now living, maybe 10, 15, 20, 30 years in these buildings, buildings, walls, garages, I don't know where – let people, citizens, citizens, let people know about it publicly. [[…]] I don't know, we watch TV commercials about red meat, about the ban on drinking alcoholic beverages, about the harmfulness of sweet drinks and so on, and all of this is financed by the Government or all of these ads go from the state budget, and let us give a little more publicity and raise awareness and inform people that it is necessary to build up according to the building permit, and it will also be possible that something will help to count more and more. Not that it's just not what it's supposed to be. And then, of course, by these nonlife laws, we burden people who are very hard to afford to build anything at all. I will only give one example or I know even more of such cases from earlier times, when the various institutions of the municipal commission and so on had to participate in the various compositions of the committees in obtaining this usable permit. The house was, if it wasn't the right person, made literally in half, and it wasn't a problem to get a license. But there were some who were, I'd say, stacked up in a dot, and it got complicated in some small matter. These commissions and this acquisition of a user permit were so – otherwise everything was beautifully written down, everything should be as it should be, but in the field it actually sounds among people and also sees if it is going to look back, that it was not as anyone imagined. In short, I think that this proposed amendment of the law is very much in place, is a very small change that will have great consequences, and people will feel this, especially those with minimum wages and those who find it difficult to afford anything more than to build their home by themselves with those small savings and loans. I hope that we will be able to bring this change to this national assembly through, even though it was not clear from the discussions in the positions of the various parliamentary groups, particularly the coalition, that this would happen. Nevertheless, I would like to rest my heart to everyone that, given the fact that we have a heart and hearing in the case of wage increases, social transfers and so on, we also have a heart and hearing in the case of such changes, the small changes that we are proposing in the Slovenian Democratic Party or in any other opposition party. Let us be obedient and accept such things, and when you propose changes – many times it is said, we will later, we will try later, otherwise in some way the same as us – we will support it, and no one will say that they will not support it. But it is too long to wait and I think it is now the right time for these changes to take effect immediately, which will be good for all citizens and citizens of this beautiful, beloved Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The next one has the word of Dr. Franz Duck, get Tomaž Lisec ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't have much time, so I'll be in a hurry. Let's touch these facades. You know, I'm a space sociologist. When I come to a country — how quickly do I see that the wrong people are in politics? I'm guessing there's no facades. Trains are running late. Even if you go to see regional differences, I can go to a neighbouring country, because I live in a part of my family in Croatia, you will see very quickly which regions they are doing better, where they are doing worse. They're getting worse where they usually have no facades. If this populism were to be decomposed a little bit, which the proponent was going to do, and Desus also asked himself why it was so – yes, because for a quarter of a century, someone was wrong in this policy. That's why a man can't make a facade. My generation of parents are in some old system, but I'm not as obsessed as SDS with it, building bytes so that maybe after democracy they wouldn't cuddle. I know very well what that is. If we were to have a serious conversation, we should talk: we are in this state because we are a kid, because politics has not dealt with housing policy or public passenger transport policy for more than a quarter of a century. And now somehow on the soul to blow, minimum wages someone with minimum wage can't build a byte. [[…]] Most people in Slovenia can't build a byte if the whole family doesn't shake hands together. Here we had the beginning of the previous mandate of a gentleman who sat here, a university professor, and at that moment he had a byte without a facade. And you who have been sitting here for 20 years are the reason for this, and now you're going into populism. You know, that's the point. And when my premier colleague tells me about the 300,000 byte – I will never build it for 300,000. I agree with Doblekar in front of me, yes, we need education, we need a law on architecture and urbanism. Or I read in Del: they're going to build a residential cooperative, they're going to build apartments in Bar, where the square meter is going to be 2 jury 800. We have the Apartment Fund, which builds apartments in Ljubljana, square meter 3 euros. The president of the country can buy 1 square meter, and he'll run out of time for selfies, you know. It's not funny, it's tragic! That's basically the problem. However, if we are already following the example of Switzerland, Austria, Germany, and we do not need to go to the red Danube, as it is professionally called, because you are going to faint in the SDS, what is the appropriate housing policy, we can go already, I don't know, to the first village of Koroška, a colleague from Koroška can tell. We would need regional spatial planning, including putting into space, sometimes you have some of these problems. Here, I also get turned around by someone from the field, who wants where you have a logical continuation of the place, and they're stuck there with a change of purpose to build something. In the countryside, too, we could solve this through housing cooperatives, and then Cuz was also your member in the previous term, and he whispered that it was socialism. Switzerland has over 5,000 housing cooperatives – then it is more socialism than Venezuela. Let us follow this example. That's right. We're gonna have to get the three in order. Back then, there was a big, vehement SMC, and we were talking together, and Daniel and the only one of you from the previous term that didn't come in, Ljubo, and a colleague of Lach, who I miss, him and his masonry, and me, and also Lisec, who also responded and someone else. That's right, it's gonna have to be tuned. But actually, you know, if we really want to talk about where the heart of the problem is, then this is where politics starts. Beyond his own nose. There is a great deal of truth in what my colleague Reich said. If, as an exact inspector with a license, he came to see a colleague of Chernač, he would probably find something that was a black construction. We really need education. We must also be aware that space is rarely good and that private property is not sacred in that sense, you know, "I can do whatever I want on my own". Here I agree with my colleague Doblekar that we need some extra education. In elementary school, maybe there's a project assignment on this, not something else. Let's go watch Austria in Vorarlberg, how they exploit their wooden processing chain. The problem is that in the countryside it is harder to build a byte – they can still afford it, but the neighbors are cheaper – and I am not nostalgic about the old system, that there was little thought that jobs were also generated, that we would not all drive to Ljubljana. These are things to think about if we want to go seriously, otherwise it's just populism. As for Kemis, 2012, the Fire Protection Act: “In view of the above experience, it is appropriate to issue an agreement on the field of protection against fire to the building permit and the use permit in its entirety,” SDS. That's more of a story. But we better keep quiet about the banks; because I'm from Maribor and I know which one of yours, I hope, even the paravomovites were doing what they were doing there, I was sitting on the committee. But if we are to take these matters seriously, of course, communication will have to be pursued not in the way that Vojko reads to you last time übunga. But actually – why can't people make a facade? Because it's stolen too much in 25 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The motioner has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u126	Populism. If there was a world competition or a populism championship, I have no doubt that Comrade Trček would be the world champion. [[Laughing in the hall]] The government, which government do we have? You were looking over here. This government is ours, look there another time. And you're above the government, you know that. When another government ruled over the renovation of buildings, there were over 150 million Euros of European money – that was in 2012 and then, of course, took place in 2013, 2014, 2015 – with which SMC boasted, above all, that they had been energy-saving over 200 schools, kindergartens and everything else. That government was able to draw European money for energy rehabilitation of public buildings both locally and nationally. Local level – I was in charge of a residential area in the congregation from which I come for many years. When I was in charge of this area, new apartments were built each year, after €950 with VAT per square metre. They've been gone for the last eight years. It's about public transport. 2012 was introduced a single ticket for students and students as an extension for a single ticket, cheaper, on the same model as students and students now have, for all. This year’s year is 2018 – does everyone in this country have it? We could have it in 2014.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u127	Mr Trcek has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u128	My procedural proposal would only be to warn your colleague to use his ears because I criticised the Cerar government in the middle, but he didn't hear that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u129	Thank you for such a procedural proposal, I believe that Mr Montenegro has heard it. We continue the debate. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the following word and Gregor Perič is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u130	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear representatives of the ministry, colleagues, colleagues, everyone, have a nice greeting! I must say that in the first stage I was disappointed at the views of most of these two-thirds of the Members, for whom I feel they have never been in the building of a house or have been built so long ago that they have no idea what it took to get their own paradise called a house. Why is it easier for me to speak in this debate today? Because I was alone in the construction phase and, yes, as my colleague Trček said, I actively cooperated or, above all, opposed all the nonsense that the former Minister brought into the Construction Law and the Law on the Planning of Space. One of the last of my questions in my previous term was, on the basis of the people I know from my own administrative unit in Sevnica, on the basis of colleagues involved in architecture, whether they are supervisors or where there are sub-legal acts. I think it was only necessary for the construction of 11 sub-laws. For half a year, they said to the government, and we're going to need time to accept, and the answer was at the end of June, or at the end of May, I got it to the National Assembly: we've already implemented one, and the rest will be accepted as soon as possible. So much for the seriousness of the former government, which is now in recycled form against the law. You yourself are not capable of adopting a smart law, you are not even able to adopt sub-laws, but you are already opposed to those stupidities that have proved during the implementation of the new law. Now let's do it in a row. Like I said, I'm on my own in the construction phase, and I hope that I'll be under my little piece of heaven, which is called a house for three months. All those who are fortunate enough to get through concepts such as the municipal spatial plan, the municipal detailed spatial plan, the purchase of parcels, the fight with municipal officials, why the municipal spatial plan does not allow construction there, why it allows only a simple house there, God does not give any one-bedroom, God does not give any other stage of performance, after you get to your piece, when it is difficult to convince the municipal officials that someone would like to have it, because the land is almost 50 times cheaper for us than in Ljubljana, why would you prefer to have a thousand square meters, not 500 square meters, so that my children can run around the house without falling into a heat pump than a neighbor, after you get to it, and you get to a bicycle called a country. And then you come to the administrative unit and you come to Gurs, and you come to the notaries, and you come to the electricians, and you come to the utility company, and then to the supervisor, and eventually – and all the time – to the contractor or the contractor. And let's leave a bank here, which is sometimes the biggest factor, why people don't choose to build anything on real estate. And after listening today to how simple this is, how it costs nothing, that there is no new bureaucracy with the new law, that there are no financial implications, allow for the launch of one concrete offer: the development of the project documentation of the PID (this is a project of works carried out for the one-house house), including the DZO documentation (provided the reliability of the facility), which is necessary to obtain the usable permit of the facility, the net square of the 140 sqm facility, which I do not think is the famous number that one four-member family wants or even allows it to do so, a leading map of EUR 285, the architecture of EUR 498, the construction structure of EUR 488, the electrical installation of EUR 493, the permanent installation, the basic, EUR 492. A total of EUR 2 000 260. Useful permit EUR 692. Note: Geodetic video, arranged for us. The price is 600 euros. Where are all of you who say, "Ah, the use permit costs nothing." Once again, EUR 3 000 85, my colleague sent me earlier because I asked him because I know that he screamed at us this weekend if we're crazy in this country, and because I said that he could send me over to the Slovenian public what nonsense they write in the government's opinion, so that this existing law is good, which we suggest, is nothing good. A colleague would save 3,000 euros, and he said, "I have to go to Gurs in addition. I have to go to the administrative unit twice. I have to go to Elektro Celje twice more to get all the data." He said: "It will cost me a circus of €4,000 200 together, and what 3 months will I do after I have given the whole phase through," once again, the OPN, the OPN and so on. If this is the meaning of the life of bureaucrats in ministries and those Members who say, "Oh, there is no new bureaucracy, no new finances are needed," if that's the point, tell my colleague. You can come to me then, I'll give you his contact, he'll be happy to offer you a beer, but believe me, you'll go bad will from him when you see what kind of calvary young investors suffer from the stupidity of officials at the Ministry, which I dare say after I've been monitoring the environment and space since 2005. When I know what Mr. Janez Podobnik was doing there, when the State Secretary told him that within one year all municipalities would have municipal spatial plans. That was June 2005. When I asked the question of how many congregations there are not yet in 2015, 50 municipalities did not have a municipal spatial plan. This is this technocracy, which the new Members especially nod and say, "Yes, officials are right." But people come to you – I hope – in the parliamentary offices and say, if we have fallen on our heads, what stupid things we accept, because someone signs, otherwise, under the opinion of the Government, to oppose the law, it is prepared by officials who have in particular in this area, called environmental issues, a lot of their kindergartens. So as far as finance is concerned, that's not true. Once again, about red tape, I've probably already told you, I'll tell you my case today – the process of connection for households, for electricity. I've been in the construction phase, I think, at least six times, seven times on Elektra Celje. Yesterday I went, they said, "Oh, Mr. Lisec, you need more," what I needed, "consent to project solutions." I come today, I bring, he says, "Oh, Lord, look, we will not go blind again," sheet A4, where exactly 11 things I have to have to join, "in addition to the ones you brought today, two new issues, but one of them must be physically by Gurs, one must even be on the CD." I asked if he could be in the ninth grade, he said, "No, no, no, don't bring anything." But they forgot to say they had one. In short, one young or elderly person, who has little or no finances, alone or with the help of friends, family, or parents who want to build a house, has a million bureaucratic obstacles, at least half of them, I dare say, to be absolutely stupid and huge financial obstacles. 4 000 euros for a license to use and to connect to get a home number, so that a colleague can know where he lives, then he can change his personal document, and then the passport everything else where it will be written, I caricature: Franci Novak, Bosniak so much. This is the nonsense that we are obviously at least denying here because we are listening to bureaucratic mills, which are ruled by those, Mr Trček, in Slovenia for 25 years. Most policies only follow officials, not those of the first-class, but those of the second-class ones that we [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, buddy Duck, if you want to replace one official, it's like you're gonna split up first and you're gonna lose three firms before you get rid of one bad official at the Ministry. Here, at least the Social Democrats, Desus, probably agree with this, who have already had the courage to go to some government, but I hope that this courage will soon be experienced by SMC Members and the LMŠ that they will not only nod officials. Therefore, I am very disturbed when it says that the use of a permit is in the public interest and that the safety of human health and life has been jeopardised by the withdrawal of a license for use. Because someone doesn't have a facade, the safety of human health and life is at stake. Now someone will give 10,000 euros for a facade to get a user-friendly permit, and then his health and life will be threatened because he will watch what he smokes and what his children will eat if I am a little populist. And this is a threat to the health and life of people. But no, first it's got to be a white facade, eat pâté, and you smoke, I don't know, trash that you'll survive. I'm doing a little cartooning again, but apparently some people need a little caricature to listen for once. Dear Mr Secretary of State – and I will leave now that I have heard what you have been doing in life – when you said that construction is contrary to the PGD problem – because PGD is not a problem at all. I got three copies of the PZI, you know, these are the maps that are so thick in Austria. [[shows with gesture]] We get three of these files from the contractor, which you then carry in every car of one, because you never know if your wife's going to have to go to the notary or I'm going to have to go to the electrician or someone else's. PZI is a key and not a usable authorisation. PZI and the inspectors. I just put the basic salary before the marriage, you won't believe who came first, except for my relatives and my two friends, to the plot – the inspector. At first, I asked him who sent him, but he said he had come on duty. And I said to myself, "Here's the hat down." The gentleman's doing his job. And if the problem is that, as you said, people get a PGD for an object, and then they do not know what big objects, it is not a problem of a license. That's the problem with the surveillance services. Even within your own department, where you have quite a few. If there is a problem with hiring anyone else in the field, there is no problem. I don't think there's gonna be any problem here, because if there's a good inspector, he's going to earn his salary at least twice in one week, because he's going to find out, in your opinion, a huge number of irregularities that happen. I have a feeling that we are all prisoners of the third, fourth rank of state officials, who, according to the coalition, are nodding the opposition. We are ruled here by officials who do not even accept the acts of law, and we are guilty of being Members. These public officials or government officials hide behind concepts such as health threats and public interest, but they do just that by doing their work – endangering public interest, endangering human health and life. And that is why such a partial change is absolutely necessary, because I believe that within six months you will find out for yourself what nonsense you have proposed at the Ministry of the Environment and Space and what nonsense the previous coalition, which is similar to the current recycled coalition, has accepted. And here at least the hat down to Desus, that obviously here and there do not get a coalition ticket for, against, but to think about finding out what they confirmed, and at least on such or other issues they stick to their principles. And as one of the predecessors said before, if such a question requires coalition and opposition, then we have a big problem called life in practice and a dictatorship of state officials. That's why I support a solution that would save a lot of people, even my friend, directly, 4 thousand euros, and, I think, a few miles of road roads like this. [[shows with gesture]] new forms, which are only referred to as usable authorisation and permission to obtain a home number. There will be enough of this bureaucratic nonsense that officials are going through, and some of them are proving them without the right arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Before he receives the floor, Mr Perič has the floor to be Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u132	Nicely greeted! There's only one explanation I'd like to give here. Mr Lisec mentioned that his friend had complained that he had to pay 4 000 euros for the project of works and operating documentation. However, I would like to explain a little here because I think there is one significant misunderstanding of this procedure. The building permit shall be issued at the level of the installation of the building in the space. This is very general information that only speaks of whether the intended facility is consistent with the implementing acts, where its position, what its gabarite is and what its size is and so on. This means the investor's relationship to the country, whether he intends to build something that is allowed or not on this land. To even build, he needs a project to carry out. Here inside are defined all the technical characteristics of this, and these constructions and this final building. The project of works carried out is not necessary if the investor is building on a project for execution, but if it is not building on a project for execution, but only those changes that are still in conformity with the building permit are documented in the project of works carried out, which means that they are not in conformity with the rules. These operating documents are not required for individual houses anyway, so I don't know why he ordered them. What does that mean? If this gentleman estimates that he has to pay 4 000 euros to obtain a usable permit, that can only mean two: whether he was building absolutely without documentation, that is, without a project to implement, which is why we can really ask ourselves how this construction was done, or whether the deviations from what he should have built to what he actually built were so great that, I will say, the engineers of the various professions in there have invested 200 hours to detect all these derogations, which means that probably this construction was problematic in this sense and that – we can probably agree here – we need a guarantee that this facility is really safe. That's all I wanted to explain to you is this process of different documentation, which is the stage in which you need the documentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u134	Because I know this colleague of mine who was building a typical house of one of the biggest Slovenian manufacturers of assembly houses, I'm going to mark your vocabulary for making fun of people. Everything was fine, he moved away and went to the administrative unit, what he had to do to get the house number, and he got a customer what he had to get. Useful license and all of this, production of project documentation. And based on the fact that he's already had a front, he's got this offer, 3,000 euros plus everything else he has to do. So do you really, or do you have no idea — with all due respect — whether there is something wrong with the whole system called the Ministry of Environment and Space. Once again, the typical house, on the key, everything was done, just asked the administrative unit what it had to do to get the house number, so it could live, so it could arrange all the documents, and it got the list, and when it got one of these offers, it was as much as I said. So, really, if this is the attitude of officials or even officials at the Ministry of the Environment and the space that some house has been built, then there is really no help for us there. Let's turn off the light and have a nice weekend together.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Since there are very few reported debaters, I will read everything in order. First he gets the word Gregor Perič, then Bojan Podkoršek, Alenka Jeraj and Igor Zorčič. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to everyone again! As is typical, we were able to fight around the facade. Someone's probably laughing at us at the expense of this, but nothing new. If we go back to the debate again. Today we are talking about whether it makes sense or not that we need to obtain a valid permit for one-house buildings, that is, for houses, to move in before moving in, and that we are also using it in some appropriate way in legal traffic, not only by living in or not. We have heard many different comparisons today, as arranged in our immediate or distant surroundings, more distant than the immediate surroundings. Now, so – in our neighborhood, let's say in Italy, for a while there has been such an arrangement that someone who builds a house probably won't be able to fix it in a short time, arrange the facade first, that this object doesn't tell the surrounding area, that it's not ugly, that it's not so that then it disturbs the neighborhood and lowers its value, and then successfully installs the windows and also attempts to regulate the interior. This is a matter of some perspectives, and here I also agree with what Dr. Trček said, is also a matter of our traditions or our culture in this area. As we discussed these issues, the Committee has repeatedly pointed out that the culture in our area in terms of construction, from the point of view of interventions to space, is not very good in terms of the development of spatial legislation. We still have a lot of reserves that we haven't taken advantage of, and certainly some rapid change, some rapid change in the system's legislation in this area has not helped this. Even in my previous service, i.e. in the congregation, when I monitored this area more closely, I have seen that there have been many problems on the part of employees who have been dealing with this sector for decades, because there have been constant changes to the legislation, and this brings a number of problems, many problems both in the administrative sense and in the implementation of all these provisions in practice. So even those who are building don't really know, once they need a document, and the second time they don't need it, the costs, whether they're going to be different, the investor doesn't know how long it's going to take to make some realisation of an object. That is why we are discussing something very specific today. Thus, there was a very specific problem, as soon as this problem was encountered, the Minister gave an express response, issued a directive, and the interpretation of this legal provision is such that those who might be affected may not be affected. At the same time as we have mentioned many times today, and it is no end of the world, the existing legislation of this construction troika is being analysed, namely the Law on the Regulation of Space, the Act on Architecture and Engineering and the Construction Law. The evaluation was made, in, I suppose, a very short time we will also get some results, some referrals, and we will also discuss this very specifically in the National Assembly. So there is absolutely no reason for any panic, for no intimidation, and I think not for any ideological conflicts, for involving such and other recyclings, but from governments to minimum wages. Because I agree here, unfortunately the minimum wage in Slovenia is not such that it allows someone to build a one-bedroom building, but we have many other major problems such as “one facade”. Because we face this problem of gravity in Ljubljana or in larger centres, where there is a great shortage of housing, on the other hand, we have our own village, which is sown with large, I hope to say, huge one-bedroom houses, which are — not to be a pessimist now — half empty or very empty. Some people may live inside, one or two, but it was meant for some extended family where they would live for two or three generations. It was also designed so you can't have two, three apartments inside. Also from the point of view of documentation, this presents some challenge, some problem. These are the real problems and I would like more debate in this house, too, to look for some solutions that we will put into practice today and will be good for the next twenty, thirty years. If we go purely comparatively, the United Kingdom knows the Institute of Applied Authorisation or the so-called certificate and the non-conformity of construction is recorded in a special public register in which every citizen has an insight, and this is recommended in particular before each purchase of the facility. Here again we run into what I mentioned earlier, large rural objects, which are then at some point the subject of some hereditary debate, this splits up, sells ahead, and then there are such legal situations that a lot of people have a fair headache. Germany, a usable permit, has also heard this, Germany's construction legislation does not prescribe, but it has an active inspection service in the field. Today we have heard that our inspectors, even though we say they only deal with red tape, come to the field and check. In short, the German inspection service has extensive powers and I believe that they are inexcusable and orderly in the field in their work. Croatia, even in Croatia, knows the Institute of Applied Authorisation, so Croatians also belong to those who use a usable permit, even though they have recently changed their legislation. Austria also knows the use of the permit, or it knows some exceptions for those facilities that are simpler, but also there know this institution. I would like to point out one more point, which is also pointed out by the Legal and Legal Service. In a decision already in 2005, the Constitutional Court stated that the legislator must have such very strong and reasonable reasons when changing a particular area of legislation in a relatively short time. If we change and change and change an area for a few months or once a year, it certainly is no good for anyone. The effects of such work on spatial regulation are felt virtually every day. At the final stage, however, the very proposals we have on the table, I believe, are good in their purpose. However, since – and this is supported by the proposaler himself – if you have listened carefully at the outset – these perceived anomalies in the field of this very extensive and complex legislation are more, then the assessment that we will receive with regard to the existing three with the ILO, what will lead us forward, and in particular at that time we will be fully engaged in the search for some solutions that will be useful and hopefully effective for the next few decades. Therefore, in the SMC, we do not think that any partial change in this case, when we know that there are still some such issues that need to be settled, makes sense. However, we are looking forward to constructive discussions in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The word has Bojan Podkoršek, to prepare Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u138	Mr. Vice President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! My predecessor initially said that he understood that we were fighting about facades on buildings in Slovenia. I don't think that's true. Speaking of this proposal to supplement the Construction Law, I think that my colleague Zvona Černač has already presented the problems very clearly and clearly before the speaker and now in the House of Representatives. Let me remind you what it was like for those colleagues and colleagues who did not sit in the previous term of office in the National Assembly. My friend Lisec used to talk a lot about bureaucrats, I wouldn't throw them all in the same basket, we also have very positive workers who do a lot for this country, but we also have those who are particularly harmful when marriage is adopted. Let me remind you. If I was happy with any marriage as a member of the National Assembly of the previous reference, it was when he came to the hearing of the Construction Law. We all knew that there were some problems in this area, that it needed to be completed, rebuilt, sent to the National Assembly and, of course, accepted, that it would be easier for all those who deal with construction or housing or larger buildings. Why was I so happy? Because the Minister was then Irena Majcen, who was the 2th mayor and the one who issued the building permits in the Municipality of Slovenska Bistrica. I had no idea that bureaucrats could perform their function. And she was sitting, I remember, a lot of hours, of course a little bit on the right, like you're sitting here today, and she couldn't move a bit. My colleagues, of course, also someone else, actually shouted that some things needed to be changed. She insisted, and here is the big question why she insisted. It hasn't been six months, and there hasn't been a month since this June 1st, when the law came into force, and there are problems. Then I'll tell you two specific cases. It seems to me that at home at the house, because we talk about construction, we do the stairs, and all our neighbors tell us that we are not exactly set, that we will not be able to walk, we insist, they are, according to our own words, because I am from Styria, we concrete, and then we find that everyone else falls on the stairs. So maybe it's a little bit harder for colleagues to understand what we're talking about today – we're not talking about the facade. The facades – if there were any other standard in Slovenia, there would be facades on all houses. Have you even thought through this point of the agenda today, how much does a facade that measures, I don't know, 180 or 200 square feet of surface cost? A facade that, of course, has insulation with all the standards. And when can someone who earns 600 euros or 700 have two or three children afford it? Can you figure out when he can save for this facade so he can finally get his home number? In my municipality, there is an empty building, which has been growing for 15, 20 years, where there are nets, cats who do not have owners, and there are 35 foreigners registered in the administrative unit. Our citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, who goes to work, takes away taxes, works for our country, has a family, because he cannot afford a facade, but unfortunately he cannot get a house number. Another example, because I am from the countryside, in the previous term we have calculated, we have obtained data that in Slovenia falls about 1.7 farms per day. It's like those farms that are big, I don't know, four, five or six acres. I have to admit, the Ministry has managed to get money for invitations to tender so that maybe some of the barns can be renewed by these farmers. These stables cost 20, 30 or 40 years. But look at him, bad guy, we got the money in Brussels, and when this farmer wants to apply for this invitation, the counselor tells him that it is crucial that he get a valid permit. Now I think we all get to know each other so much about construction that we know how much it costs to use a 30-year-old barn license. But he works for animals. I'll be back again, six or eight months ago. We talked a lot to each other. In many segments before this law, we were not heard. I place my trust in you, colleagues and colleagues, and those who work at the Ministry, the Minister has given positive signals – conscience, the steps I mentioned earlier – that the new Minister will come to the Ministry and that the inquiry by all the administrative units, how this matter is going when these findings are made, I fear that you, those who have accepted this, will find it awkward. [[…]] Today, once again, we're not talking about one facade. We are talking about a non-life law that needed a change that has a lot of positive inside, but it has points that burden our citizens and citizens. I've been to a family recently who can't even go to a rental apartment and have a family with children and no bathroom. First, there's one room, and when there's a bathroom, they don't know. When they listen to us We say, look, it will be, because it runs – no problem, nor is it a problem on a trip or on a trip if you have enough money. [[…]] Those people who count each day on how the month will survive cannot afford to give a thousand or 2,000 euros to the administrative unit are afraid of that. How many children today live by two or three in one room! Of course, some have a house in Slovenia where each child has its own floor. These points, which I think were presented by my colleague Chernač, are so that we can all understand them and those who are watching us on television need to be changed. This is the first debate, and I invite you, because I have already tortured myself in the previous term by participating, not for the sake of us, for the benefit of those who have chosen us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Alenka Jeraj has the word to prepare Igor Zorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. Very simply, the building law, which is in force, also contains a few anomalies, and if it is of little good will, they can eliminate you. Our proposal is before you to abolish the acquisition of a usable permit for one-bedroom buildings. The problem also shows that the minister issued a directive to the inspection services to issue only a warning to single-party houses without a valid permit. So he realizes that this is a problem and that we're complicated where it shouldn't be complicated. My friend Trček used to say that if this does not work, then they will be all over Slovenia without facades. Look, then you don't know Slovenians very well. [[advertising from the hall]] You'll fix it if I get it wrong. Slovenians are a little too regular to lose their facade for many years. And not only that, they're also careful, and in order to spend less on chicken, they're going to make a facade as soon as possible, and they're going to make a facade on the property very quickly. But it's true that if they moved in earlier, they'd move in sooner than they had the conditions. I have one case right now. They're building a house, they're moving in in January, but it's gonna be a problem, because the facades aren't there yet, and they're selling the apartment they're living in now. And that's why they're building a house to go there, they've cracked up all the savings, credits and so on, and of course they're having a problem now, because if they don't have a facade, they can't move in by law. The government then writes in its opinion that such a provision is because it would endanger the health and life of people. Something about this has already been said by my colleague Tomaž, but it is important that he writes over and over again: that the result of such legislation was, inter alia, that investors with a building permit for a one-bedroom facility had built a multi-dwelling facility, with no one checking it because the usable permit was not prescribed. Hello?Oh, my God! We will now punish those who make a one-bedroom house because there are some investors who, on the basis of the building permit, do more. We have an inspection. The inspection has to find out. The municipalities know what's happening to them. No, we will, because one of them is in violation, rather punish those who have, say, done things just fine. And again, the minister knows they've done just fine, so he said not to give them an execution, but to give them a warning or a warning. So he knows that's the problem. What were the inspections to make it happen that an investor with a building permit does a multi-housing building? Where's the inspector? Tomaž Lisco comes to the yard on official duty, and he's not going to go look at this. That's the problem. This is a problem — that we control things poorly and then punish all those who do something about it because they are in violation. But those who violate will always be, because that's why we have inspections and let them do their job. My friend Perič said it was necessary to make a facade first, and then put the windows inside and everything. Hello?Oh, my God! I haven't built the house yet, but – but then we'll fix the facade when we install the windows? And it's going to be a little bit bigger around the windows for I mean, let's be a little bit real. [[…]] Maybe that's how he's gonna build it, but first he's gonna make a facade, but I don't think that's how people do it. I can't hear the word completely anymore. You'll take care of everything. Now we were on a committee when we were talking about why we had to adopt one law again after the emergency procedure. Because we wanted to make it whole and we put a hundred and one things in it and then the law enforcement said it wasn't right. And the previous coalition, SMC, Desus and SD, withdrew this marriage because they wanted to make it whole. We don't need to open an entire law for an anomaly like this, which is what we're talking about today. But get rid of this, it won't ruin everything else. But the fact that we constantly do not support your proposal because it does not regulate in its entirety – you know, in its entirety means every time we open an entire law from A to Z. Then we would not have a change of law, then every time we open an entire law will be complete, then we will go from A to Z to see what needs to be done. Nonsense can be dealt with very quickly if there is little will and little understanding. Give us from the Ministry – in this opinion you have not written to the Government how many such cases we are dealing with, how many ministers we are dealing with, that is, the inspection service has given only a warning. Give us this information so that we know what we're talking about and how much we're killing people without a relationship. Do you think the guy who's building his house has the idea that he'll never make a facade? Hello?Oh, my God! Everyone has the idea of making it and having a nice house and surroundings and so on, at least for the Slovenes. I won't talk about anyone else, but I don't know anyone who doesn't plan on making facades any sooner. But it is true that it solves the possible first housing problem and wants to create something as soon as possible so that it can move in and then finish the house with a facade and everything else and garden and surroundings. Our proposal supports and calls for you to think a little bit about what we are saying. Also, look at the cases you have, because people are probably writing to you and asking you, from now on, I'm not going to say stupidities, anomalies that you shouldn't have. This can be resolved very quickly, so no one will be hurt, and we will make it easier for people.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u141	Here's the procedure, Dr. Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. There are such and different populisms, but there are populisms that go wrong. Mrs Jeraj was experienced in politics, a prominent member, and she was lying to me about something. I'm being reasonable enough to make you understand me. Even if you want, from some family stories of my parents, I'm aware of what it means to make a facade, but we're not doing a Ph.D. here now. After all, we are citizens and citizens of Slovenia not only Slovenes, even Slovenes, but also many others, probably me or Grims, whose great-grandmother came from the island, wanted to make a facade, that is constitutional matter. I expect Mrs. Jeraj to apologize to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u143	Thank you very much. What is your procedural proposal now? [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u144	I would just like to remind my colleague Trček what he said – that Slovenia is one of those countries that we know where we are going, because it is known for its facades and trains that are late.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Here's the procedure, Dr. Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u146	I suggest that the session be suspended and read. I said it was an indicator when you see it's a wrong policy. Listen, buddy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u148	This is an indicator, even as far as the authorities are concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I suggest we move on. Igor Zorčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u150	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Colleagues, colleagues! Debate, I have a feeling she's turned into some sort of reckoning. However, the topic we are dealing with is quite interesting. I remember that we have dealt with it once this year, this is when we adopt this law. I think there's a lot of deception here. It is nice to hear that with the proposal of the law the situation in the use of the facility debirocratises, but we have to be aware of something, the use permit was not invented in Slovenia. I think they have it in many countries, they have it, they call it in different words. Sometimes it was heard that they were giving as some kind of notification of the completion of works and similar in Italy, but I don't know what all these translations are, but it's actually about one thing and the same thing. Finally, our legislation also provides that this application, which is necessary for the issue of a usable permit, must include a declaration by the designer, supervisor and contractor that the works are completed in accordance with the building permit and that the essential requirements laid down are met. Therefore, the substantive same requirement also contains legislation from other countries and I think that this requirement is fully understandable. I do not agree with this debate in the sense that this is just another bureaucratic achievement that prevents young families from moving into their homes. I agree with this reference to this case as very non-lifelike when it was impossible to obtain a usable permit because of the failure to build a facade. I also agree with the Minister's action that he has instructed the inspectors not to sanction this and that this must eventually be resolved, but I do not agree with the need to resolve the legislation in such a way that there is no need for any further verification of the facility which has been rebuilt. Let us remember some historical events in Slovenia, in neighbouring countries, especially the various natural disasters, most of all earthquakes – we have two major earthquakes in Upper Soča in 1998, 4 thousand 55 different objects damaged, in 2004 about a thousand 800 objects damaged. I wouldn't hope as someone who decides whether or not we need certain standards for building buildings, saying that they're unnecessary, that they're an expression of some unnecessary bureaucracy. On the contrary, I think that, in fact, in the past centuries, this construction has shown that red tape is still necessary in setting some standards that provide security for all citizens. This is not just about young families, but about those who have less money, who have more money, it is simply about common public interest. In 2016, in central Italy there was a severe earthquake with a magnitude of 6.2 and our experts wrote: Such an earthquake would destroy 2 000 750 buildings in Ljubljana, where 43,000 people live, 40,000 buildings would be moderately damaged, temporary accommodation would require 135 thousand people. We're talking about this, we're talking about security, that is, documents that require safe construction and not any unnecessary bureaucracy. If the annex to the application for a usable permit is a declaration by the designer, supervisor and contractor that the works are completed and in conformity with the building permit, then I am confident that at least in some basic or at least some basic dimensions we will satisfy our public interest after we build safely. And I don't hope to say to anyone: "Well, look, we don't need these papers, it's all over because they used to build great and nice houses." If this building is on its own — let us leave the cases where buildings are even in twin or rowed houses, where the poor construction of one part of a row, or one of the buildings within a row of buildings may collapse even next door — if we say that the building is alone and does not endanger any other building. I don't think we can be satisfied there, either, that this building is beyond some basic guidelines that require safe construction. Because of this, as I mentioned, natural disasters, other similar things are happening, and not least, we are witnessing in a number of countries that have a much less regulated legislative area of construction, so that the buildings are also falling apart. In short, here, in this legislation I see a fundamental public interest. I think building a building, despite the fact that I agree to stay in the individual domain somehow, that they have the opportunity to build their own home, but we have to pursue some common interest, which is first of all, based on the fact that these buildings are staticly safe even in the event of earthquakes. Then, as an upgrade, they are, say, environmentally acceptable with suitable facades. But for some basic stay, it's probably enough if the building has all these basic elements and maybe some later facades. In short, I agree with the Ministry's view that legislation is relatively fresh, that it needs its assessment after it receives some information from the territory in which the legislation is poor, and that it is right that legislation then changes throughout the law. Last but not least, it is often heard that we have a flood of laws – I think that in the flood of laws we can also consider such very partial laws, where only one article is regulated. I think it is right that if it turns out that this legislation is problematic to resolve itself through the entire law, but not to solve one article today – possibly in a way that just excludes all requirements for verification of construction legislation – and then one month from now the next article. I don't think that provides any legal certainty. The debate was also about whether we should confirm this law in the first reading and then amend it on the committee. I am convinced that such an important topic cannot be changed on the committee – since we only have an open article 6 if I am not mistaken – because if we want to maintain that basic purpose of the usable permit, we should also open the other articles and tell them when to be issued; so what is what is considered a building that is already suitable for living. So, is it just a building that has a roof, a window, whether there's something else to do in there, whether it's a facade or not? We're probably going to go into a lot of details in the end, I don't know, a detailed technical inspection of every facility. But I think it's best that we get a proposal, a solution from the ministry that gets all the data from the field, from the administrative units, from the inspections, so that we can also have a solution that will be as long-term. For the time being, however, we cannot support this law for the reasons described. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We come to the conclusion of the general debate in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. A representative of the Government, Mr Aleš Prijon, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Perhaps all of this debate would have added only that this building trinity, as it is called, means the Construction Act, the Act on Architecture and Engineering and the Law on Spatial Planning, is quite fresh and were also relatively radical – it changed the existing regime. That is why, of course, it is necessary and correct, as the Minister has decided, to make an evaluation immediately in the beginning, to assess which solutions are good, which are less good and what could be improved here. We have already received a number of responses from both users, citizens, designers, various institutions and have already analysed them. Some suggestions are very good, so we will take this work seriously. Of course, I also thank all today's debaters for these useful suggestions, which we will also take into account and somehow incorporate into these improvements of this legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u154	First, a few words about the last debater. Mr Zorčič discussed things that were not the subject of this novel law. We do not change the construction standards, we do not change the notices, we do not abolish the building permit, although many countries, as I mentioned earlier, could only be subject to notification, in this case to one-bedroom buildings. None of this changes, as a result of this talk of buildings being demolished — I don’t know — being unserious if there is no usable permit. Or do you think the official will check the statement signed by the designer about how many fittings were installed in the panel? Probably no one will verify this, so that what you have discussed has absolutely nothing to do with this change, which is only a change in the fact that one administrative burden is being eliminated, which is entirely self-intention and unnecessary. With respect to Article 6. In my opening remarks, I said that, in view of the position of the Desus Group, where it was expressed that this law could be supported, if it were to be amended in the future, that it would remain a useful permit in the case of market construction also for one-house facilities, so that we do not have problems, but that we would facilitate the situation for all those who build for their own needs. We have no problem with that. Under the line. I think that the most plastic idea of how inappropriate this legislation is, not only in this article, but in general and in what strange country – including the wrong one – we live, was given by our colleague Bojan Podkoršek. I don't know if you heard him say what he said, but I'm going to repeat it like he said. We have a rubble that has a house number that has dozens of people on it, and on the other hand, we have a new building that has been built with all the standards and has no house number, because it has not yet been built, and it cannot be registered by a family that is formerly so that it can build this house, sell the apartment and move out of it. We live in a country like this! Is this the country we want to live in? Are we proud to live in a country like this? Is it right that we adopt and create such laws? Is it right to remove these anomalies? And this one, I repeat, is just one of the little ones. There are dozens of them; dozens that heat people's daily lives and do nothing to help them, in a particular case, to make them more secure. It was said that the utility permit was because the safety of human health and life would otherwise be compromised. So if there is no use permit for a house, the people who live in it will be threatened, their health and life will be threatened. Remember, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Shempeter ER at Gorica. Did she have a license? She had it? Did she have all the signed statements? Did she have it? Were the lives of the people who came to this hospital really safe? Did they take someone from this ER to the cemetery? Probably not just one. And they were all valid permits. All the papers. So please, such comparisons, I don't think they're appropriate, and they don't help to eliminate bad solutions. In my opening remarks, and once again, in this novel, which entered into force on 1 June, there are also some good solutions. One of those people where you're not asking about safety, and I believe that a few years ago, you would have, is the abolition of the building permit for the demolition of the facility. Isn't that dangerous? For so many years, this was dangerous, and a building permit had to be obtained if you wanted to destroy an old facility. Now he doesn't have to! Why? Because one of the clerks is obviously a little small, I'd say, looking ahead, and he realized that this was a piece of paper that wasn't needed. Which is unnecessary. When we're talking about a family house permit, one-bedroom buildings, where it's mostly floor buildings, floor buildings with mansards or one-floor buildings, there's something similar. It was mentioned that the minister solved the matter with some mandatory instruction. Look, I repeat, he didn't save anything. He put the problem down. And the extra work is red tape, in which case an inspection. And people still have a problem, because they still have to work things out, because they have a case hanging over their heads with a delay. What for? By reaching out, he acknowledged that the problem existed and that it needed to be addressed. You are not prepared to settle it simply because the opposition has proposed it; just for that, let us be honest. In this review of our legislation, where the government has gone very far back to the former country – I don't know what – and of course the last novel of 2012, there is a lack of regulation – if you have gone so far back. Given that you have announced that, on the basis of the evaluation made by the Ministry, this new legislation will need to be amended. That means the marriage isn't entirely okay, which is why you admit it. Given that this change will be necessary, it would be good to follow the arrangements that have long been in force in this country. A long time ago. There was once an Austro-Hungarian in this territory. The buildings that were built at the time are still an example of architecture, static stability, quality construction, not to mention that they were also urbanized in an appropriate sense put into space. So this Austro-Hungarian country, part of which we were, obviously had this area very well regulated. Even though it is now almost 150 years from this period, I think that when you write a novel of this law, it would be good to be – a respected Secretary of State and Minister who is not here today, and I suggest that you pass on these words to him – look at the arrangements that were in force at the time. Because it was very simple and everyone understood it. Here I have Bauordnung, the Construction Order of the Vojvodina Kranjska, 25 October 1875 is dated, is in Slovenian, so there will be no problems, otherwise as they knew it then, but understandable enough to translate it into an appropriate current bureaucrat Slovenian. 98 paragraphs contain and everything in this document is described in a very simple way. And once again, if at the time of Austro-Hungarian times things were arranged, they had no programs, it was order, the space was protected, the buildings were lined up, the cities had trees, public surfaces and so on, people could build normally, then why bother. Given that we are concluding the debate, Mr Secretary of State, I will hand over this document. I especially like paragraph 93, which reads: “A hasty solution to building matters. It is the duty of the building authorities to resolve all building matters by speeding up.” There were no days, no deadlines, no interpretations, whether 15 days are 15 working days or 15 calendar days, or 30 days may be once or 30 days can be twice, or any administrative authority can only give a supplement once or twice. In one sentence it was all written and, of course, the authorities that supervised it. As a result of this arrangement, which is known in some countries around us, when people are burdening administrative procedures in the notification of smaller buildings, and on the other hand they have effective control, substantive control, there are good arrangements. It is said, on one side of the building notification, that we know when it will start and where, the appropriate inspection which supervises these procedures, and at the end of the notification of the conclusion. And people don't have all these license problems anymore, one, two, ten. Only if the administrative authority finds that there are derogations, then they're in trouble and they're right to have them. As we now have these things prescribed, however, all people are burdened by these procedures because of a few percent of those who do not adhere to these procedures, which is wrong in the world. It is said that the story must be turned upside down, and some of it is also in this building’s order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The time for discussion has not yet come and the interest in time-sharing has been shown, so let me say that if you would like to discuss also the representative of the proposalr, Zvonko Černač, and the representative of the government, please sign in by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case, they will get the word as the last, namely, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Each debater has 5 minutes of time available. First up is Franci Kepa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u156	Thank you for your word! As the predecessor said, Mr Cernač, the procedures in the past have been much simpler and this use permit is only one of the things we should simplify. Projects in neighbouring countries are much cheaper than in Slovenia. I have some experience with Croatia, they are three times cheaper in Austria than we are in Austria. I don't know why there must be some unnecessary elaborates in our house, or this usable permit for a simple object — these are houses, simple objects according to the criterion — and there should be no need to reintroduce a usable permit. He was gone for a while and he was, too, and now it just burdens people, as the predecessors said. Façade, this is a very big kick that has suggested this problem, and it would have to be eliminated, not for a year, because of the execution that people can't go to a built-in apartment house, because probably no one, as the predecessors said, does not exactly have a facade made, but probably because it is financially exhausted. If someone made the house, perhaps everyone would like to make it in the end before going in and should be put out or extended — not for a year, but for ten years. As has been said, in construction or in construction for the market, there is a need for control everywhere, and the main control is a supervisor, which has not been mentioned here in the past. The main three are: the contractor, the supervisor and the investor. The supervisor has to control the building and the inspection. The inspection is coming or not coming. The main one who controls the construction under the building permit is the construction supervisor and he responds to work by the rules to install the right material, to install the fitting, to build properly. I would have touched it, I said earlier that building documentation would have been simplified as well. Recycle this because it is unnecessary for simple objects to have such documentation, that it is, according to the local word spies, five centimeters thick, for a building and an economic building also for the house. That's not necessary. So it was said 100 years ago, in Austro-Hungarian, the projects were drawn in two drawings of A3, along with a static assessment, and static calculation of some of the permits for copies, for delivery to the facility. It was all very simple, very simple. That's how it could be with us. This is also the way the neighbouring countries have arranged. This is just one piece of this, and other things should be simplified. That's it. Thank you for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Igor Zorčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that. My friend, the fact that we're not talking about a building permit today is not true. If the purpose of the usable permit is to verify through some administrative procedure, through the declaration of the designer, supervisor and contractor that the works are completed and in conformity with the building permit and that the essential requirements are met, then we are discussing the building permit. Now, whether we are satisfied with the building permit being issued, the house is built the way it is — and we all know how to build it with us, and we all know how to build it with us, and we are happy with it, and we are happy with it, and we are happy with it, or not. And when you say, mate, where's the inspection procedure? This is some kind of administrative review if they give a designer, a supervisor and a contractor a document up there that it's done and that it's in line with regulations similar to those of inspection. Well, you don't have to have someone from the state administration, an inspector, on the ground, but it's checked in the office and issued this utility license. I agree, however, that sometimes – perhaps even in these cases – the ministry will assess – it takes too long, too many documents, too much costs and the like, but of course we can always talk about this and make the situation as friendly as possible for all citizens. However, I do not agree with this debate that everything was fine in Austro-Hungarian, but nothing was necessary. This Austro-Hungarian was Austria-Hungarian only so long ago, and probably there was no I don't know of such construction companies as today, but there was no such way of building, but there was no need to build anti-shock and similar. But today we have all these requirements, the population today is different, the number of people living on a square mile is higher, the consequences of natural disasters are greater. I agree that the country takes all this into account in its spatial planning and in providing some building standards. Now, if the state takes this into account, it must also monitor or — the one who built the facility — it also satisfies all these regulations and standards. And that's all we're talking about here is whether we're up for as much safe building as we are. I agree with everyone, if someone builds in their own direct and then lives in their own direction, it is his fault if anything happens to this object, but the objects are on the market, then the sale goes ahead and it is right that, through these standards, which apply all the same, we satisfy this common interest. I think it is important here to discuss the situations described earlier, the natural disasters in our country, abroad, that these are some experiences that we need to learn from and from which we need to conclude what our common interest is when we build objects. Is it now an interest that what can be built is, whether it is also an interest, that it is as safe, first for the one who lives inside and then for all the others and for those who stay close, or who just walk past such an object. So this is a debate that is in place in all this red tape and which we will probably get in the future, but because this solution is too simple, it simply does not solve what it is supposed to solve, it merely excludes one important part of some control in the construction of buildings without focusing on very specific cases that can be very problematic. I can't support this marriage. If it were in writing, but it can't be written in this law, even if we put it through the committee, that the case we witnessed in the media with the facade is really unnecessary, then I have no reservations to adopt such a law. But that can't be solved here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. First of all, we are not much of an expert on facades, nor in the history of Austro-Hungarian history, for which colleague Reich is an expert. I am now feeling populism, but here we have now heard everything alive, until the Italian earthquake and so on. Let's touch the facade first. Yeah, well, people don't build bytes to the end like that because they're running out of money. Someone mentioned the banks earlier, Comrade Chernach. If Slovenian politics were to be taken seriously, we would have a state-owned bank and a credit line to finance – not in the way that you smothered my generation with Swiss francs – and these people could build facades. First story. Second story: carrot bat. Apparently, you all love inspections. Maybe you'd like to be inspectors. There'll never be enough inspections if we don't have some basic culture. Even about construction. We don't really have this culture. Of course, we are some kind of society, sometimes jokingly I say that the shortest definition of Slovenia is “not an excessively large dysfunctional family”. Then there's always someone who's making a few bucks, one-third makes a lot of money, one-third doesn't look at it, and one-third pulls it short. My friend Beznik will talk to me. He's got a lot of experience, but I'm not kidding. It is very clear there that if you and the gabarit are going to shoot out, if you make the roof any different than it should be, you will, according to your own words, be struck. If we talk about costs and administrations, that's what SMC likes to talk about, we'll debirocratize, up, down. What my colleague Lisec was talking about, that's what he's holding, and I'll sign it. I'm afraid that's true. And we need to ask ourselves which administration we need to be safe, and we need to ask ourselves where the costs may be too high. But when we were changing this three-way, I was hanging out with SDS at the time that it was a half-facile child, which unfortunately was very much the same, and there was a lot of lobbying, especially architects and so on. Of course, we urgently need some kind of advisory offices, as we have them for energy renovation in construction. You know, all these things, they're all policies you didn't make. And then to refer to Austro-Hungarians, we could watch before the empire split into Austro-Hungarians. In the right hand you would like to boast, here is Mr Janša, then you have presided over the EU, but I do not remember that at the time you would have wandered through Slovenia, there is too much complicated legislation, which is often true, let us look back in Austro-Hungarian. One thing he forgets about us, and I have repeatedly warned him that we have an extremely scattered settlement. If you add a scattered construction to this, if you add that we don't have a reform of local self-government, it's too expensive. You'll have to build more together in the village. Sometimes, for example, in the Istrian region or on the coast, they understood this more because they had to protect the agricultural land. You know, we should start talking about these things, too. And you mentioned Austria up, down, we'd have to start talking about it. I always say that the happiest person in the universe would be if I never had to own a property and a means of transport more expensive than a bicycle for 200, 300 euros. You'll say so, but the Slovenians aren't like that, and they're not. Yeah, we didn't, because you didn't politically allow it! In the village, too, it could be built in the way of housing cooperatives. A lot depends, of course, on bureaucrats. I believe that colleague Cernač was a good bureaucrat in the congregation. I also have no problem commending the good SDS mayors. After all, I have one hole in Ivančna Gorica, mostly past, unfortunately, I do not take it during the week, which is often where I actually sleep. There's all this square circle. The key problem with you in the SDS is also when you have a good suggestion that then you shake so hard that we're all total idiots, and then even if we support something, we think: Go somewhere! Ask yourself that question a little bit earlier. This is what my colleague Vojko has already explained to you at one of the last sessions – now I am not on this committee – I don't know why you didn't accept on the committee that it doesn't apply to some construction that goes on the market, and it would be easy to burn this down now and not have any problem with it. From the executive authority, if it comes to the meeting, I expect it to be more clear whether this needs to be changed or not, that there is no problem at the moment. And I didn't hear that answer clearly enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Franz Breznik has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u162	Thank you very much. If I've ever flogged a fellow here, I'm sorry. I don't think you're going to find this video, but I could ask you, within the framework, to say citizens, in the framework of young families, in the context of people who have had difficulty getting to a house, but maybe some money for that facade has run out. Thank you for commending me on my experience, but look, abroad, in Austria, for example – from country to country differently – this regulates possible property tax. Someone who doesn't have a facade, I don't know, in Slovenia, could pay 10 euros a year or 20 euros more until the moment he doesn't make that facade. Look, in ten or five years, if this facade doesn't end, this house won't be constantly questionable. As my colleague Chernač said today, we are entering into a law or a law supplement or an amendment in the direction of debirocratisation. I find that word very easy because I have a literal allergy to bureaucracy. And bureaucratic thinking. When I listen today – and I apologize again – see, a large number of colleagues and colleagues live here in a box, some bureaucratic thinking, no logic, beyond the living conditions that are on the ground, and everything that followed today. So, we don't change construction standards, we don't change building permits, we change someone who eventually so again comes from people who work on administrative units – an example of exactly what we invested was an example of quite a few people. [[…]] I can tell you, a acquaintance comes after 15 years when he lives in his house, which is perfectly built with all the standards that he wants to get his license now. Do you know what a man, literally, administrative unit — can I say — in Lenart? You know what he said to him? He said, wait a minute, this is insane! Wait a minute. He said, look at the designer you're going to go, you're going to have to call him, it's going to cost a thousand euros, because now the designers will be able to place prices spatially 15 years ago. I'd say yes, if that's what you want, and then after 15 years, I'll find it, I'll prepare it, we'll look at it, and so on. With regard to safety, continuation – safety. Earlier, you mentioned the Secretary of State, I think, that case with Rogle in front of 2012 of the unfortunate three young people who died in that weekend or the mountain house. There's a typical case where someone didn't control these chimney systems. So, death occurred due to increased carbon monoxide concentrations. It was demonstrated that the gas furnace was working on one side, on the other side of the fireplace, which was subsequently installed. Both had some concentration of elevated monoxide, and this affected the death of these three people in that long night. This has nothing to do with the use permit. A useful permit in earthquake situations. Look, colleague Zorčič can super explain how bureaucrats think – this is a typical example of bureaucratic thinking. His discussions about that registration bike with the auxiliary engine are, I think, the world phenomenon is famous. Today and yesterday – a sad story – I talked to Slovenian farmers. They begged me, literally crying about your cash registers on the farmers. Now, when they go to these markets at minus 10, in the rain, in the mist, they squeeze on those cash registers at 500, 600 euros; women who sell some carrots, some salads and so on. This is a typical nonlife, total bureaucratic thinking of people who have never done anything clever in practice in their lives. Look, I'm going to use a new term, colleague Zorčič – we don't need any more in Slovenia, and I also have a party president here, Vice-President, we will no longer use this concept in SDS demobilization because I see that this concept does not depend. Or maybe people will remember a new term, a new term “disorctisation”. That would be a great expression against this mentality that's going on here. The use permit will not reduce any danger, because if we continue to do so, respected colleagues and colleagues, then we will slowly need a special technical review for the baths – some individuals, a citizen falls in the bathtub and kills himself. We have a whole series of fatalities when people fall in May, June from cherry in Slovenia. I also think that technical checks as well as usable licences for cherries should be needed. They can also fall down the stairs in their own houses. I would recommend that, in addition to the usable permit, we do a special technical review and look at the standards of these steps, and so on and so on, and then everyone will move out. There will remain only bureaucrats who will deal with other bureaucrats and so on and this bureaucracy will achieve this culmination of its zenith. In the Slovenian Democratic Party we are a party that comes from the people, deals with the real problems of people and, see, today is a typical example of a very simple solution. So we're talking about simple objects and we're talking about one-bedroom facilities, and for these facilities, I don't think we need a usable permit, and citizens and citizens don't need new costs. Let them give these expenses at this time for Christmas gifts or let them and their children go on some well - deserved vacation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Please proceed procedurally, Mr. Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u164	Dear Vice President. My friend Beznik once trusted me that he was full of irrelevant information, and I can see that he was consistently moving them here, but he's also insulting. I'd like to ask that in these exhibits of his that I don't say idiotic, that you calm him down a little bit, and that you don't let him go to any personal level. I'm not on his, either, and I'm telling you I could talk about it here now for ten minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u165	Thank you very much, but I haven't found any procedural proposals here. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u166	Thank you for your word. I also have to say that I listened to my colleague Zorčič when he was talking about how houses could be subdued, something in that sense, but I was wondering if it was possible for the house to break down if it didn't have a facade. Then she's really badly built, if that's why she's capable of falling. Today we have heard many life stories, and when we hear what is happening to people because of such a nonlife marriage, we should no longer be interested in who suggested it, but in what he proposed and why he proposed it. The OECD November reports say that Slovenia is second in line with when young people move home. We all know that this is a problem because they don't have jobs, they don't have apartments, they're expensive, we know that prices go to the sky and they don't have enough money in Ljubljana, and they just don't have low wages. If they already have an apartment, they sell it as soon as possible and buy a house or build a house they'll move into as soon as possible. So that they can live in the house, the facade is not a condition or the most important. And I like to look at a beautiful house with a nice facade, and I know it's warmer if it has a facade – because we all know that. Everyone would probably want to buy a house with a key, a facade, a garden, grass, and move in. And I know we live in situations and many of them, or most people don't have that kind of money. However, they want to live in their house as soon as possible so that they do not have to pay the rent, pay the loan, and so on; instead, they pay off the loan. These are life things that we should understand and Members are not at the service of the government, but we are at the service of the people. If this is the first consideration, I think we have every opportunity to adopt the law in the first reading, to complement it with all the things we think we should complement and actually do something concrete for people. Earlier, when I mentioned the OECD report, 76.4 percent of young people still live at home between the ages of 15 and 29, only Italy has a higher percentage, it has more than 80 percent, and in Canada and Scandinavian countries, between 30 percent and 40 percent of young people at that age still live at home. But the main reason is because they can't afford an apartment, a house, and so on. If we are stalling by allowing them to move into a house that is probably difficult to build, then we do bad things for people or we do not hear them. We can't hear them in their troubles. And maybe there's something else about bureaucracy that we've talked about today. When we discussed the Public Sector Wages Act at the beginning of the session – where was the government's main savings? That we have cut off our work or froze! And then we have bureaucrats; some are more good, some are less, some are more workable, others are less workable — but why should we bother if we are all paid the same?? I think that's a mistake. This institute may have been abused, but these performances were not exactly shared, but I think they would be necessary and necessary. It is right that those who do well, effectively, take responsibility are well paid. Those who go only to work should also be properly paid. Then we will also have faster permits and different consents and so on. It makes sense for us to look, not at who proposed it, but at the purpose of this law, the reason, in particular, that we will help people.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Aleš Prijon, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u168	Thank you very much. A user authorisation is needed primarily because it provides user safety. At the Ministry of Environment and Space, we are thinking about solving the problem, as the proposaler put it, in terms of living and reducing administrative barriers. However, more issues need to be addressed. In particular, it is a matter of facilitating only one-bedroom construction owned by non-market-oriented investors, making it possible to use it in a transitional period to the final state and so on. As a result, several articles of the law must be opened. We therefore propose that the National Assembly, as proposed today, reject the law and address the issue comprehensively, including in terms of resolving the issue of equality before the law, take into account the social aspect and in particular the safety of facilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u169	Thank you very much. A representative of the proposer shall have the floor, Mr Zvonko Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Some, I see you took the case of Austro-Hungarian too literally. Of course, we have fresher cases in our immediate circumstances because I believe that this legislation is also translated and can be used and does not need to invent hot water. In my previous presentation, I said that, for example, an example — because the Austrians have this arranged by country — is an example of an Austrian Styria good example. We could follow that example. I said that in the case of Austria's Styria, even in the case of buildings that are in three floors and up to 600 square metres of area, it is a notification, not a building permit and so on. The Czech Republic and many other countries have a similar case. There are huge examples around us. They should be used because I think they are good cases; good cases for both people and officials on the other hand, because they mean a decommissioning, facilitate the way and procedures to obtain useful permits, building permits and everything else; and, on the other hand, they also provide legal certainty because they give a great deal of emphasis to supervision in all these countries. But this burden is reversed and not passed on to an investor or an individual. Otherwise, Austro-Hungarian was known for its quality construction. There are also many buildings in Slovenia, which are over 100 years old and still operate. Schools are mostly in them, elementary schools, high schools. On the other hand, we know that many buildings that were built 50 years ago or 70 years ago in our country no longer stand. It doesn't stand anymore. That's how I think this building policy doesn't have to make a fool of you. I think they knew how and what to do. Finally, the route from Vienna to Trieste was built before the Republic of Slovenia obtained a construction permit for 27 kilometres of single line that will not save anything between Divaca and Kopro. About Mr. Runk. My friend Runk. Let me tell him because he said he believed that Chernač was a good bureaucrat in the congregation — Black was never a bureaucrat. However, I can tell my colleague Trček that this proposal that he made here today is that some credit lines should allow people to improve their building conditions through the restoration of facades do not drink water. We know examples of good practice, we even have an institution in this country – because it was already about the facades of speech, although it is not the main topic today – which could do much more to help people sort things out. It's the Eco Fund. I'm afraid he's too bureaucratic. He's been bírocratic until he gets here. With procedures, with papers, with procedure. But I can give an example from this particular practice of mine if you want to because you challenged me. During the five years in the congregation where I worked, both of the apartment’s main neighbourhoods, which were built in the 1970’s and 1980s, were energy-saving multi-family buildings, not credit lines, but because the municipality found that some incentive needed to be given and around 20% of these costs were reimbursed. In doing so, she encouraged people to do so and to do so. During the 5 years, she gained a completely different image, and something similar applies to the old city centre of Milont, where incentives were given in a similar way through the decree, budgetaryly not high, but substantively significant due to the improvement of the image, the quality of stay, including the energy balance you were talking about, improved. We did something similar when we had this opportunity in 2012, when more than 200 schools, kindergartens and other public buildings were energy-efficient and recovered from European money. The use permit, as provided for in the law, is not required for one-bedroom buildings, for 6 years it was not available, between 2012 and 2018 this authorisation was not required. Excesses that have occurred are a matter of inappropriate operation of inspection services. They are the ones who should make sure that these excesses do not happen, but not that now the burden of this, because it has happened, is borne by all those who are building according to the building permit and who are now facing some big, big problem because there are a lot of people who are actually moving into the apartment house, and then they finish this facade in a year or two. And now they cannot do so without being sanctioned, because then the inspection procedure, which will now be temporarily, as we see on the basis of the Minister's instructions, remains frozen, but the burden remains. It is inappropriate to expose people to unnecessary burdens, unnecessary administrative procedures, of having a certain inspection procedure with some fines over their heads. The solution that we have proposed is simple, short, concise, without great effort, it could be implemented. And I don't believe that with some systemic solution you will come to the National Assembly sooner than in a year, but the question is also what it will be, and the question is whether it will actually address those problems that need to be addressed. So I suggest you reconsider and confirm this novel in the first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. On the day-to-day basis, this is firstly a proposal for a law supplementing the law on corporate income tax. The draft law was tabled by a group of seven Members and Members with first-signed Joseph Horvat. With regard to this bill, the Group of 11 Members and Members with the first-signed Joseph Horvat requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to complement the explanation of the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u172	Dear Members and Members! I have to start with a very good conscience. About an hour or two ago, our Slovenian hockey players in the U20 group, in Division 1B, became champions, for which, of course, we sincerely congratulate them and want everything good. Today's correction of the Law on the Income of Legal Persons is talking about how to create an interesting tax environment so that companies can make more intensive, more cost-effective donations and support Slovenian sports industries. We are convinced that sport needs resources, that various sports industries need resources to develop, that infrastructure is being built and that it enables successful athletes to advance and pursue their goals. We certainly have great athletes. If we compare how many medal bearers we have to the number of inhabitants, we are certainly at the top. In times of economic crisis, there are certainly companies that can afford support in sport. Of course, this tax system must be such that it is interesting for businesses as well. What does New Slovenia specifically propose with this amendment of the law? We propose that the donations given by companies to individual sports companies and clubs represent the amount multiplied by two, and tax relief is reduced for that amount. If I say a little more domestically, transparently, I would say the following: if an enterprise gives a sports club or a society a thousand euros, it is considered to be a cost, or if I give a concrete example of what this means for an enterprise that has 10,000 euros in present profits, and if, of these 10,000 euros, it gives exactly a thousand euros to a sports club or society, that means that the state loses 380 euros in taxes, but at the same time, the sports club gets 1,000 euros on the other side. So, we come up with a concrete formula where the state would cancel 380 euros in tax, on the other hand, sports clubs and societies would acquire an additional thousand euros. It's definitely a multiplier effect. The fuses. Why are we only talking about donations and not sponsoring contracts? Sponsorship contracts are already considered among the costs and sports and sports sectors with sponsoring contracts, of course they are of exceptional market interest and can also come to this sponsorship money. That is why we are exclusively talking about donations; donations, especially to clubs and sports companies, which are not yet so marketable today, that with some advertising, this could be a big addition to some companies, so we are talking about donations, not sponsorship contracts. We also foresee in the law that these donations can be used exclusively on purpose. This means that the money given by the company to sport and sports clubs can only be used for the organisation of sports events and for the construction of infrastructure. Homely speaking, for the organisation of state, municipal and European competitions and at the same time for the construction of playgrounds and other sports infrastructure. By doing so, we make an important contribution to allowing young people to engage in sports. At the same time, we also prevent manipulation because we provide that these grants can only be given to clubs that implement an annual sport programme at local or national level, which implement the annual sport programme of the Sport Foundation or which operate in the public interest, so that no one can see that a company has set up its own company to be tax-optimised. In this way, with such a positive tax approach, we can help Slovenian sport, Slovenian young athletes, in a tax-effective way. The country is cancelling its share of taxes and the economy is making a significant contribution to the continuing success of sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u173	Thank you very much! I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Natalija Kovac Jereb, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u174	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on corporate tax provides for a new tax relief. It is proposed to facilitate donations to companies acting in the public interest in the field of sport. On the basis of a proposal from the applicants, the taxable person shall be entitled, under certain conditions, to a reduction of the tax base by twice the amount of the grant paid if that company uses the grant to organise or participate in sports events or to invest in the basic assets and equipment required by the company for its operation. The government is aware of the positive effects of sport and it is therefore important to note the actions of the various policies already under way. In preparation, legislative acts and other activities are important for providing a favourable framework for sport. Tax measures may pursue targeted objectives, but at the same time ensuring fair and effective taxation. All of this means that individual proposals need to be addressed in a comprehensive way, not just in terms of one measure, one group and one area. The applicable Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons already provides for a benefit for grants, for so-called non-profit purposes, including sports purposes. In order to ensure compliance with European Union legislation, it may also be applied to grants to Member States in the European Union and to the European Economic Area. According to the 2017 corporate income tax, this relief was imposed by 10 000 338 taxpayers, it is said that 9.9% of all corporate income tax debtors cannot be excluded from the debtors who have only made it easier to grant for sport purposes, but this is an information for all non-profit purposes. By facilitating donations, the taxpayers reduced the tax base by €23 million, which means reducing corporate income tax revenues by about €4 million. If those undertakings had taken full advantage of this relief, they could have reduced the tax base by around EUR 196 million. The Income Act also provides relief for natural persons who carry out activities. In addition, the Income Act for the purpose of financing general benefits and purposes for sport also establishes an institution for part-time income of up to 0,5 %. The Government points out that these measures are not fully exploited, but also points to other measures which constitute favourable tax treatment for the debtors. Thus, for example, the Law on corporate income tax provides for the possibility of carrying losses and other general relief, including a favourable tax rate. Taxpayers engaged in a non-profit activity shall also be exempt from the tax on income from the management of that activity. Tax relief must be provided for in such a way as to make their application easy. Additional conditions, such as the use of donations in a sports society only for precisely defined investments or for organising and participating in sports events, further linking to public interest and the like, require specific verification and proof, which is linked to costs, administrative burden and legal certainty. The proposal for a law is not designed in such a way as to clearly and unequivocally establish the delimitation to the applicable tax relief for grants and, in terms of height, it is disproportionate to the overall benefit for grants. It should also be noted that it ignores other non-profit objectives such as generally beneficial, charitable, religious, disabled, humanitarian and others. The government considers that only a combination of appropriate measures in the tax area, while ensuring a sound and progressive fiscal consolidation, can lead to a sustainable and appropriate environment for the operation and development of sport. The proposal for that law does not follow that objective. In the light of all the above, the Government does not support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u175	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, who will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u176	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. The main objective of this law, as proposed by the New Slovenia Group, is to encourage the financing of companies operating in the public interest in the field of sport and sports companies, which are selected in the implementation of the annual programme for sport. The key solutions to this law are, above all, to introduce a new relief for the donation to sports companies acting in the public interest. A taxable person who makes a donation to a company falling within those categories shall be entitled to a reduction in the tax base by a double amount of the grant paid. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that athletes and sports clubs are the best promoters for Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the proposal proposed by the New Slovenia Group allows for further growth and further development of sport in the field of the Republic of Slovenia. Above all, the proposed solution would allow for higher development in the younger categories of sports clubs, which are of course very important for the future functioning of sports clubs in Slovenia. Given that this is the first reading, we will support the draft law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, we expect support from other parliamentary groups as well. We are convinced that this law can certainly be improved in the next legislative procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca, will be presented by Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. Vice President, Madam Secretary, colleague and colleague! The proposer in the proposed Proposal for a Law on Complementation of the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons proposes a new relief for donations for the purpose of investing in companies acting in the public interest in the field of sport. The proposal, which has already been tabled and rejected in the National Assembly in the past, would encourage the financing of societies acting in the public interest in the field of sport and creating a link between economic operators and sports companies with a view to having a positive impact on both sides. It would make it easier for the company donor to justify a reduction of the tax base by a double amount of the grant. Your Honor! The proposed new relief sounds good, but the existing Law on corporate income tax has a wide open door for various reliefs. reduction of the tax base on investment investments, investment in research and development, employment and, of course, relief for grants governed by Articles 142 of the Income Act and 59 of today's Act. It may be applied up to a value of 0,3 % of income tax and additionally after the second paragraph by 0,2 % if the purpose of action is in the public interest. With such facilities there are many companies in Slovenia that have virtually no tax on the tax base for many years, or in Slovenia there is an effective tax rate for corporate income tax among the lowest in the European Union. The second fact is based on an analysis highlighting the surprisingly low use of legal persons' benefits in the area of donations. Before this, we must note that donations of gifts which are granted without a return benefit and are not considered as a tax-recognised expenditure and can only be considered as a tax relief. A more detailed analysis shows that in 2017 legal persons were granted relief for the whole area of non-governmental organisations if they were given as donations for humanitarian, disability, social protection, charitable, scientific, educational, health and, of course, sports as well as cultural, ecological and religious purposes, only at a level of slightly less than 10%. It follows that NGOs, as of course sports societies in this area, still have a lot of space to take advantage of. The government has set specific objectives in the coalition area of sport promotion and development. We want sport in Slovenia to remain a quality movement of all generations and an incentive for the quality life of every individual. We are aware that we need regionally evenly distributed and modern sports infrastructure and greater investment in sport. We have also set ourselves specific tasks in the field of tax relief, which will be systematically regulated by amendments and additions to legislation, taking into account the financial sustainability of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, we will follow effective practices in the world that have proved to be effective and, above all, have returned long-term positive effects through a healthier population of all citizens of Slovenia. The National Institute for Public Health constantly reminds us of the deterioration of the lifestyle of the current population, and especially of children who, through an epidemic of excessive weight and obesity in children and adolescents, show irreparable health consequences. In later years, this leads to a number of chronic diseases, such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease and a number of serious complications resulting from this. NEI points out that new forms of obesity and consequently the deterioration of health resulting from unhealthy lifestyles — especially the lack of movement. Here, however, we need to draw attention to the problem of health care or the enormous increase in treatment costs. So, respectable, it is an approach to preventive action that will ensure, through immediate and proper measures, interdepartmental insurmountable savings and improvements in the quality of life. If we do not take preventive action correctly, we lose miles and then by millimeters and by great effort and, of course, we save the situation. It will therefore be necessary to take immediate action to improve the lifestyle, especially in schools, which is certainly a good seed for future customs in all life periods of us people on this planet. The NIJ therefore advocates the implementation of the system measures of the various sectors enshrined in the Resolution on the National Food and Physical Activity Programme 2015-2025, which has been adopted, which enables children to live in environments where they can develop healthy eating and, of course, movemental habits. So more sports in preschool education, in primary education, in secondary school, in higher education programmes, in jobs than in the third life period. Such approaches will come back to us by increasing productivity, reducing the cost of treatment and admitting, even through a positive attitude towards life and relations between us. With that approach, we would like to explain why we do not support the proposal of the proposal of the non-delivery proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Jani Prednik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u180	Vice President, thank you. Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! Again, we have before us a proposal for a law designed to provide greater financing for sports and sports organisations acting in the public interest. Its key solution is based on the proposal to introduce tax relief for companies and organisations investing in sports activities and organisations. In particular, it is proposed that the grant given to a sport society acting in the public interest or as an operator of the annual sports programmes should double the amount of the donor's tax relief. A company that, for example, would donate 500 euros could reduce its tax base by a thousand euros. There is certainly a need to welcome efforts to ensure more stable financing of sports and other programmes in the public interest. Incentives to ensure greater flow of private resources could be an additional way to finance such programmes. Regardless of the good purpose, we ask ourselves again whether solutions are good and feasible. There are many questions and the public financial consequences are only one of them. We should point out that the proponents have not clearly identified the negative financial implications. Last year, they avoided these issues by withdrawing the date of entry into force of the law for one year. This year, dear proponents, you haven't even worked so hard. The proposal provides for the entry into force of 1 January 2019. 1 January 2019! In your explanation, however, this will give the government sufficient time to prepare. No last year or now this was not a good trip to a well-intentioned proposal. It is also unclear whether such donations should be limited in any way, for example by a total amount, since otherwise there could be misuse and artificially spilling of funds in order to avoid tax obligations. In addition to the exposure, there are other issues related to such a sport financing model. In particular, the verification of the use of funds and the prevention of abuse should be mentioned, as the law does not provide for ways to detect them. In the event of non-indemnity of funds, this should be recovered and the donor should also pay the tax liability as it would have lost the already granted relief. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are concerned that this part of the law is not complete, and we believe that it would be difficult to complement it in this work so that it can also be feasible in practice. With regard to purposeful spending, an additional question is raised, to what extent the donor may request and verify how the funds have been used. Donation usually constitutes a contribution without the expectation of concrete benefit or action, and it would therefore be necessary to verify the constitutional consistency of the proposed regime when considering the law. In doing so, let us stress that private resources in sport and other activities in the public interest are, of course, desirable for the Social Democrats, but this cannot become a substitute for the urgent role of public funds, which are indispensable mainly in sport accessibility programmes, the promotion of healthy and active lifestyles and the education of children and young people. This part of sport will always remain in the public interest and hence also the important responsibility of the State and the municipalities. Only stable public resources can ensure that programmes are implemented qualitatively and remain accessible to all. In the Group of Social Democrats, we find that we have raised all these issues in the course of the previous consideration of this bill. We have not received satisfactory answers, nor has the proposer of his proposal improved with anything. Therefore, Members and Members of the Social Democrats will unanimously oppose the proposal for a decision that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Matey Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u182	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The draft law on the supplementation of the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Nova Slovenija. The proposal provides for the implementation of new grants to companies acting in the public interest in the field of sport and to sports companies selected for the implementation of the annual sport programme at national or local level. The same should also apply to companies selected for the implementation of the annual programme of the Sport Foundation. According to the proposal, the taxable person making a donation to such a company is entitled to a reduction of the tax base by a double amount of the grant paid. However, such funds could only be used to organise or participate in sports events or to invest in the basic assets and equipment for the operation of societies. With regard to the proposed law, I would first mention that the benefit for grants for sports purposes is already provided for in Article 66 of the Income Act and Article 59 of the Law on corporate income tax. Under these provisions, the taxable person may apply a reduction in the tax base for the amount of payments in cash and in kind for sports, humanitarian, social security, charitable, cultural or other general useful purposes. The Law on corporate income tax in Article 9 provides for exemption from income tax from non-profit activities of so-called non-profit organisations, including societies. Donations shall represent income for non-profit companies and shall not be included in their tax base. Article 9 of the Law on corporate income tax also covers sports companies. I certainly understand the proposaler's intention to increase funding in the field of sport, but increasing the incentives or additional incentives for sport grants does not yet mean that there would be more grants for sport. Measures in the field of sport should be taken in full. The data show that only a few taxpayers are eligible for donations and even that they do not make full use of it. We certainly cannot conclude that the main motivation for donations is tax relief. It is also necessary to look at the promotion of sports activities from the point of view of state budget measures. In 2018, the funds for sport amount to EUR 20.5 million, of which EUR 2.8 million for sports infrastructure. In view of 2017, the funds increased by 27 %, mainly at the expense of the integrated funds. In this way, the Government will support the development of high-quality sport through the co-financing of team preparation and individuals at the largest international competitions in 2018 and 2019. It will promote sport of children and youth as well as sports recreation, will also co-finance the development and professional tasks of sport and various sports programmes to enhance health and well-being. It is important for sport that two top sports facilities were opened during the term of the government of Dr. Mir Cerar, namely the Nordic Centre of Planica and the Gymnastic Center of Ljubljana. It should also be mentioned that in May 2017 the Sports Act was adopted which has a significant impact on the development of sport. The law provides conditions for the citizens of Slovenia to engage more and better in sports and movement activities to maintain health. The law increases accessibility to sport and motor activities and improves the quality of professional work. At the same time, the law allows free participation in competition sport for all amateur athletes. The law also brings a number of other comprehensive measures in the field of sport. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we support such comprehensive measures that will promote sports activities. In the present proposal for the Law on Complementation of the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, we will vote in the Group of the Modern Centre Party on account of all the above-mentioned facts against the fact that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. My colleagues and colleagues, once again a nice greeting! Arbitration interference with tax policy is not the objective we are pursuing. This proposal has more in common with accounting books than with hockey or basketball, which the applicant initially recognises. We already have a well-ordered area of donations. We are not talking about comprehensive financing of the health of beneficial leisure activities, but about giving work to income-generating activities that are socially beneficial. The system exists and is used annually for about 10 000 and 10% of all taxpayers. It does not discriminate between different sectors and interests for donations of selected areas, including sports, nor does it seek to exploit the tax exemption system. Unfortunately, this cannot be said for a proposal we have before us again. This proposes to reduce the tax base by twice the amount of the grant paid and, on the other hand, is in a patronizing relationship to sport as any activity through which the tax base can be reduced. The circle between the provision of mutual benefit between the sport society and the donor is in fact too narrow, which could in practice involve direct implementation of pressure and favouring certain sports associations or activities. For example, there is no reference to the ceiling for grants that can be received by a sports company, so these companies could be placed in very unequal situations with regard to rescue companies or slaves. Control options are limited, if not zero, because they open up the anger of possible abuses and unfair tax practices of legal persons and societies. Moreover, the fragmentation of the tax policy, which this proposal falls under at the same time and does not – as Schrödinger's cat – creates a dangerous precedent for preferential treatment of certain areas that are, or to someone at the same time, a favourite or permanent public number. The mere idolisation of sport and the simultaneous ignorance of the precarnation of athletes show an eternal hypocrisy in this area. Of course, for sports activities in organized or free, recreational or professional form, we cheer loudly, but at the final stage, this proposal takes authority to take it elsewhere. The deficit in the public budget, which on the one hand is unpredictable and on the other hand inconceivable, in any case means less for culture, less for health, less for education, less for social and less-decent sports activities. We have not supported this proposal in the past and we will not support it this time either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues, athletes and athletes, cheerleaders and fans! That's what we're all all about. This item of the agenda deals with the proposal of the New Slovenia Act, which in its form belongs to the field of finance, and according to its content or the problem it solves, the law falls within the area of sport. The implementation of sports activities is often associated with high costs. With the undisputed positive effects of sport in various areas in New Slovenia, we note that we need to strengthen the incentive to finance societies that care to a large extent about sports activities and the development of sport culture. Tax incentives for grants in sport are certainly a good way to improve their financial capacity and consequently to strengthen the positive role of sport in Slovenian society. In Novi Slovenija, we follow the national sport programme, which states that, I quote, "the state is pursuing public interest by guiding an encouraging tax policy for the development of sport". End of quote. The bill introduces a new relief for companies that donate to sports companies. The company which makes a donation to the company is entitled to a reduction of the tax base by twice the amount paid. In order to prevent abuse by establishing, for example, new fictitious sports societies, it is easy to apply only to societies that, for the first time, act in the public interest in the field of sport, – secondly – are chosen to implement the annual sport programme at both national and local level or – thirdly – are chosen for the implementation of the annual sport programme of the Sport Foundation. In order to prevent abuse, the intention of the donation is also determined. The donation may be intended only for the organisation or participation in sports events or for the investment in fixed assets and equipment that society needs for its operation. The new facilitation bill introduces a system of symbiosis between economic operators and defined sports companies, which has positive effects both in the field of the economy and in the field of sport. The mechanisms introduced by the bill strengthen the principle of subsidiarity in financing sports activities. This means that, through a proposal for legal solutions, we will allow the financing of sport activities to be carried out automatically as far as possible in the civil sphere by limiting the involvement of state authorities in these processes. We believe that both entrepreneurs and defined sports companies are social entities that can achieve significant shifts in the development of Slovenian sport by working together and encouraging tax reliefs. For a slightly more plastic picture of what our proposal brings, we can take a look at the case of a particular company. I repeat what the mag has already presented. Tonin as a proponent, but repetition is the mother of learning, is the mother of knowledge – “Repetitio est mother studiorum”. If a company with a profit of EUR 10,000 to a sports company had allocated thousands of euros, the tax liability would have been reduced by EUR 380. If a company with a profit of EUR 10 000 to a sports company had allocated EUR 2 000, the tax liability would have been reduced by EUR 760. So, in the case of a donation of thousands of euros, the state would give up 380 euros in tax, but Slovenian sport would receive as much as a thousand euros of support. Is that clear to everyone, I hope? We Christian Democrats believe that the citizens of Parliament expect us to listen to the problems and needs of sport and to society in obtaining the resources necessary for their operation, to enable us to use new instruments in the form of tax reliefs. Since in New Slovenia we allow Slovenian sport to improve the conditions for their operation, of course we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party of Alenka Bratušek will be transferred by Franz Kramar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u188	Chairman, thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At first glance, the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on corporate income tax is quite welcome. The main solution is the introduction of a new relief for companies acting in the public interest in the field of sport. Thus, a taxable person who would grant a grant to a sports company acting in the public interest would be entitled to a reduction of the tax base by a double amount of the grant paid. We are all aware that sport is one of the most important segments of a healthy way of life and that, also in the framework of legislation and tax policy, we need to seek to create better conditions for the functioning of societies in this area. However, we cannot overlook the fact that the proposed amendment is a partial arrangement; sport is only one of the areas of the so-called non-profit sector. This also covers the areas of culture, education and the like. Each such proposal, however, means a fragmentation of the single tax treatment – the proposaler obviously forgets that. It should be noted that the legislation already in force allows for the application of grants to sports companies. This is already provided for in Article 59 of the Law on Taxes on the Income of Legal Persons and in the Law on Income. Thus, it is possible for the taxpayers to reduce their tax base by making a donation for this purpose. In addition, the current regulation provides for the enforcement of relief for payments to other Member States of the European Union and to the European Economic Area, which is not provided for in the proposal for a law. In fact, the applicants are in contravention of European legislation to the conditions of registration of society or association in the Republic of Slovenia. The government has also highlighted the problem of control over the use of donations. The proposal lays down the conditions for the company to spend the donation for specific purposes and does not define the control over the use itself and the authority to carry it out. Therefore, in the Alenka Bratušek Party, we agree with the Government's position and the proposal for a law will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u189	Thank you, Member, for your position. Mr Robert Polnar, Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Mr. Ambassador, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u190	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The purpose of the tax relief proposed by supplementing the Law on corporate income tax is to encourage the financing of companies operating in the public interest in the field of sport. The tax base would be reduced to the donor by twice the amount paid to the sports company, which is obliged to spend money for specific purposes. The key question raised in this matter is whether modifying tax legislation can stimulate enhanced co-financing of sports activities. As regards tax reliefs, it is necessary to state that the Law on corporate income tax already allows in its 59th Article that the taxable person may apply a reduction of the tax base for the amount of payments in money or in kind for humanitarian, disability, social security, charitable, scientific, educational, health, sports, cultural, ecological, religious and generally beneficial purposes up to an amount corresponding to 0,3 % of the taxable income of the taxable person in the tax year. The number of economic operators who decide to apply these allowances is very low. What causes this situation, or what causes it, is, in fact, difficult for us to answer. The most credible responses could be provided by key decision makers in companies. The assumption that the main cause is inadequate tax legislation is considered by the Desus Group to be excessive. We are convinced that, above all, donations should be encouraged in all areas covered by this facilitation. Moreover, it is not possible to overlook the possibility of providing funds for generally beneficial purposes for the purpose of half a percentage of the income under the Income Act. The Law on corporate income tax also provides for exemption from non-profit income tax for all companies, including sports. Thus, donations to the companies receiving them are not included in the tax base. Here I have now listed three potential tax reliefs that potential sports donors can benefit from. However, they obviously do not benefit in sufficient quantities, which is also illustrated by the numerical values of the Secretary of State. In the Desus Group, we estimate that existing tax reliefs can sufficiently encourage grants for sport purposes, so we will not support the proposed legislative additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u191	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jani Ivanuša on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u192	Once again a nice greeting to all present. To the President, Madam Secretary of State, all others present! A new law under Article 59 of the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons further encourages investment in sport. Pursuant to Article 59(1) of the Law on the Income of Legal Persons, a taxable person may impose a reduction in the tax base for the amount of payments in cash and in kind for humanitarian, disability, social security, charitable, scientific, educational, health, sports, cultural, ecological, religious and general useful purposes, only for such payments to residents of Slovenia and residents of a non-Slovenia Member State, except for business units of residents of an EU Member State located outside the EU Member State, provided that they are established under specific rules to carry out those activities as non-profit activities up to an amount corresponding to 0,3 % of the taxable income of the taxable period of the taxpayer, but up to a maximum of the tax base of the tax period. However, Article 59a of the Law on corporate income tax provides that a taxable person may impose a reduction of the tax base by a double amount of the grant paid to a sports company acting in the public interest in the field of sport. We believe that as a result of the additional tax advantage, the number and the amount of donations to companies acting in the public interest will be even higher in this area of sport. We hope that, if the law is amended, sufficient time will be allowed to adapt the change in tax accounts to determine control over the use of donated funds, as it is proposed that the law enters into force with 1. 1. 2019. We also wish that the financial management, with its supervision of sports companies, will no longer cause administrative costs in relation to the accepted grant, but that societies will benefit from the grant. In order to avoid abuses, such as money laundering, all donations should be transferred from the Slovenian account to the Slovenian account. Transfers to foreign companies, to those who do not have a seat in Slovenia, should be prohibited. As far as I have heard from the positions of the coalition's parliamentary groups, the fact that we have athletes in Slovenia is only in opposition parties. In our Slovenian National Party Group, we will, of course, support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u193	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We have thus concluded our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the proposer, Mr Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u194	I am truly and truly happy today – our young hockey players, which is, of course, another reason more for us to do as much in this house as possible so that young athletes can develop and also make great progress in the membership categories. I had a feeling when I listened to the views of the parliamentary groups, because the money is enough, the state is making a huge effort to sport, then that the existing reliefs are not fully exploited and similar things. But whoever, I had this opportunity to run some local sports society, there is certainly also someone in this house who ran some local sports society or club, and always the same story – fencing for money. Always writing requests, donors and others if companies and other benefactors can contribute money to organising sports events and competitions, not to building infrastructure. Many people will be able to say that the construction of infrastructure in Slovenia may be quite well arranged because it is done by municipalities. I might even agree with that. But societies have a difficult problem of how to finance this thing, and those who say that money is enough, you simply have no contact with reality. Why don't you go take a look in the field and ask some friends? Perhaps only our addresses come with requests for donations to various societies in the organization of various competitions. These are the facts. Some sports are very expensive. Slovenia was once very good in winter sports, and ask your parents how glad it is today to have someone compete in Alpine disciplines. Ask them. There are some sports, such as hockey, where we have been in the past and we are still very good today, and they are also very difficult from an infrastructure point of view because they require ice rooms and similar things. It is clear to me and everyone in New Slovenia that the country does not have money to give to everyone, so it shares money and gives it to everyone. When we are repeatedly accused on the left hand side, when we make proposals, marriages that are supposed to have major financial consequences; today we come with a law where we literally expect the economy to do something to sport; and we want to do it in a taxly interesting way, again, the problem is again. We want to create the conditions for the real economy to be able to donate and support sport. Sports industries and athletes, which are all Slovenian-recognizable, have no major problems because they receive fairly good sponsorship contracts, at least some. The problem is with smaller sports clubs in the second, third and fourth leagues and other leagues; the problem is with sports categories and industries that are not media-wide interesting, and these are areas that need money bloodyly. We want to provide money to these areas, not from the state, from the economy. What the Ministry of Finance has said is that, as far as they have said, 14% of taxpayers only benefit from the current tax relief. Again what economists and entrepreneurs say on the ground. This is how they interpret it at the Ministry, since 80% of all companies benefit from this tax relief. Do you know how many economists and businesses have said that if we were to invest in these things, we would invest if we could. Thus, legislation from the point of view of donations is so unincentived that it is simply not worth doing. Now I'm going to come up with one very similar thing where you need to use a little healthy farmer's brain. Who can donate and help sports from the economy? Yes, those who have money, those who have some gain. And it is clear that they will choose whom they will give the money to. I don't know what's bothering Levi, and then the company can just decide who it's going to donate the money to. Those with a slightly more social conscience are already doing so. But there are others who do, and they need slightly more tax incentives. It seems to me that if we had at least listened to this, one important point in this proposal is that, in such a way, Slovenian companies with money to help sport would have been able to optimise themselves taxly in a way that would be useful for this society and for sport. Today, Slovenian companies are tax-optimising Cyprus, Luxembourg and some other countries where tax legislation is much more favourable. To pay less taxes. No one can blame them. They're trying to be tax-optimised. This proposal goes in the direction that businesses should not have to make some difficult collisions and move their companies or exhibits to Luxembourg, Cyprus and elsewhere, but simply by helping Slovenian sport to help young Slovenian athletes – in this way they could be tax-optimised. Isn't that smart with a useful one? That if we already have companies moving out to pay less tax, or it would not be wiser to use a healthy farm of intelligence and say that we in Slovenia will make such a system here so that you can be tax-optimised, but it will be useful for our society, for Slovenia. Not for Cyprus, not for Luxembourg, but for our young Slovenian athletes. So, we're demanding a very small effort from the country. All we ask of the country is that part of the tax is cancelled in exchange for sports to gain much more. Perhaps things need to be very specific and explained in numbers that things will be very clear. For example, there is a successful company in Slovenia today with 10 000 euros in profits. Of these 10,000 Euros of profits will be paid 19% of the profit tax. With 10,000 euros, this will amount to a thousand Euros tax to the state. If we applied our law, that means that if this company, which has 10,000 euros in profits, would give a thousand euros to the sports club, this sports club would get a thousand euros. However, in the case of a tax settlement, the amount by which the tax base is reduced would be doubled. This means that with these 10,000 euros taxed, because he has given a thousand euros, two thousand euros would go down and there would be a profit that would be taxed, eight thousand. Of these 8,000 would pay a 19% tax and that's a thousand 520. The difference between the previous thousand 900 and a thousand 520 is, say and write, 380 euros. So we are speaking very specifically that if the state gave up 380 Euros of tax, on the other hand, sports would receive a thousand Euros. I hope that we all understand the multiplier and positive effects here. Instead of giving the country a thousand euros, it's much cheaper and better for it to say, "Okay, I don't take 380 euros tax so that some sports club gets a thousand euros." This is some point of cooperation between the economy and between a country which does not cause great costs to the country, but can make a significant contribution to sport. In this way, let me reassure those who are concerned about these financial consequences of our legislation. Believe me, if more money were to flow into sports clubs, this would also increase consumption in some way, but at the same time the demands of sports clubs to the country would be lower. There's one thing I need to comment on. Some of you see why it's just sports, why not other areas. Because we've estimated that sport is one of the industries that needs special attention and help, and once again, because you can't practice it all over again, but you have to go through the branches because you have to get the guards in. Because if we were to make this a general suggestion, then someone could justifiably tell us that a company that would want to be tax-optimised would simply set up a sport despite the fact that it would transfer money to reduce its taxes. We don't want that. That's why we wrote in the law very clear guardians, to which sports clubs and societies can afford this money. Those who act in the public interest who carry out a public or state sport programme or a sport programme of the Sports Foundation. Moreover, this money cannot be used for the salaries of sports officials, but for the construction of playgrounds or sports infrastructure; and, on the other hand, for the organisation of sports events, which are sometimes very expensive, especially when it comes to European or even global rankings. That is why we have only engaged in sport, because we have made it very clear, in cooperation with the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, that we have foreseen all the guards so that this law is not abused. However, New Slovenia will also be supported by a coalition or any other proposed law, which will do the same in any other area, and we will introduce similar safeguards that will not be misused. We certainly support the approach where the country gives up a small share of money because people, societies and similar organisations get money to work. So we do not have an approach like the Left, where everything needs to be taxed in full, so that we can then share everything from the budget; but on the contrary, it is better that some things the State gives up, that the economy can also give money to these areas. Those who accompany these meetings may think that this is amazing how the coalition of six parties is looking for reasons not to support opposition laws. Things are really amazing. I think that we and also the people would be more honest if one on behalf of your coalition of six came to the floor and said, "We have only one problem, this problem is that the opposition's candidate is." As long as he's the opposition's proponent, the law has no support. Pika. In fifteen seconds, we all know what time it is and what the situation is; the matter would be resolved. And sometimes it's funny to listen to all of your reasons why you oppose this law. People do not know that you, as a coalition, have the opportunity to adapt this law in future with amendments to your wishes, according to your framework, to supplement it; but you do not want this, you do not want any serious dialogue. If the opposition's a candidate, that's a problem for you. Social Democrats say that this law is not granted. It could be added with amendments, no problem. They point out that an error is foreseen with effect from 1. 1. 2019. This is the simplest and easiest amendment to make this mistake go away, which we acknowledge has been made. I don't have a problem admitting mistakes. The left says we're going to arbitrarily interfere with some tax system. Please. We're going to intervene arbitrarily. When they arbitrarily intervene in a number of other areas, that's fine. Here I would really expect a little more intellectual consistency and fairness in such explanations. Then they're worried about the ceiling on the donation. Every company will donate as much as it can. As much money as he has at his disposal. But we're probably talking about the amount of profits he's making. It's probably not going to donate something that would cause a minus in the company, but if you create some kind of profit that you can socially benefit from, this thing will donate. Preferential treatment of sports industries – logical. If I'm an entrepreneur, if I have 10,000 euros in profits and if I want to give someone 2,000 euros, of course I'll decide who to give it to. I think it's some healthy farming logic. And it's hard to understand that this is a problem at all. I wish — and I guess these are the dreams that I can write to Santa Claus — that we sometimes listen to each other in this room and find some compromise, common solutions to move things forward. Because it's really hard to listen to an argument that has nothing to do with real life. Like I said, whoever's running society knows the situation, knows the situation in sports. And that is the easiest way to do it, we have the most burdensome support for sport. And here would be something concrete made for our athletes to continue to cheer us up, connect us, and promote Slovenia in some way.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u195	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. This brings us to the general debate of Members and Members. The first word is Mrs. Ludmila Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u196	I'll be back in a moment to discuss the previous marriage. We talked long and wide about the Construction Law, which just depicted a series of problems regarding facades needed to obtain a usable permit. And that law had no financial implications. He was just solving people's problems. And you decided to turn him down. The financial implications of this law are a problem. And then you really wonder if you're really just looking for a way to avoid the support of some law proposed by the opposition. We all know that sport is useful. We all know that children are under-involved in sports, recreation, and that is why in the country we also have a problem of being overweight in children. If we want to have successful athletes, there must be a mass of athletes, young people who are involved in some sport, so that they can really come the best out of this, at least some of the best. Tina Maze doesn't just come out like that, and Peter Prevc doesn't. Or Ilka Stuhec. But Donic. But I don't know who. We know that in the beginning, parents finance huge amounts of money, drive them to training, support that they are most on the shoulders of parents who insist on spending time with that child, young ones, so that we can finally enjoy ourselves. And we are proud of some achievements and boast about how successful the sports country is Slovenia. Thank God we have them. And I remember last year when Slovenia became the European basketball champion, how we all went mad, how we rejoiced, how we cheered, how pleased we were. When I had to go on TV, I went on the way to a reception that was on the Congress Square. At this reception, which I do not know who organised, was also the then Minister of Education and Sport. And you know what happened when they announced it? It was whistled by people. And what do they tell us, politicians? You want to take pictures with us, but do not provide enough resources so that we can train Slovenian athletes to be more successful. And also on the basis of such perceptions, this law was created because we want to help Slovenian sports and Slovenian athletes. And if we look forward to medals and successes, it is also our duty to help with our sentient powers. Of course, someone must also be motivated to devote funds for such purposes. And if someone has a profit, they have to give the country a tax on that profit. Or is it not right that he can also decide by his will and purpose and that to someone, that is, to a sports society, to whom he has chosen? Of course, there must be some motivation for that. Motivation is, for example, that I support because I am a passionate, self-absorbed fan or because maybe my children participate there, but if there is a tax incentive, I think that this is also the motivation of a country that renounces some income, that more income will have some company and more young people will be able to achieve excellent sports results. So let's not just look here at the financial consequences that the state will have because it will lose some money; we can do a lot for human health, including by supporting societies, by involving a wide range of people, from which a handful of very successful athletes will come, and by doing something for our health.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u197	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. I see the present Mr. Joseph Horvath. But get ready, Mrs. Monica Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u198	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I'll be back on the previous agenda for a moment, too, when we were talking about the facade. Some family who built their own house and doesn't have money and doesn't have an apartment because she sold it because she built the house, can't go into this house right now because this house doesn't have a facade. That's the arrangement. But this facade is a very good parable. You, colleagues and colleagues, at least the ones who said you wouldn't support it, this moment and this evening you showed your facade – it's red, it's red. Of course it's red, it's normal to blush if you don't support Slovenian sports, it's perfectly normal. I'm sure the minister, who was very sorry for me, was proud when she was whistled in the Congress Square, as my colleague Ludmila had already said. We are only following, ladies and gentlemen, the National Sport Programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2014-2023, which was adopted by the National Assembly at its meeting on 2 April, not on 1, 2 April 2014. We did not oppose him; the then coalition supported him and it was right to support him. Who was already in the coalition at the time? What, though, is included in the chapter Financing? I know no one has read this except New Slovenia. Among other things, in the section Financing a very good text, I suggest that you read it, on page 60, so that you do not read everything: “In addition to the local communities, the ministry responsible for sport, and the Sports Foundation will be required to implement the sport programme”, that is, “there is still a need for budgetary resources to implement measures that are carried out by other regional ministries and private resources.” Private sources. That's what we're talking about today. How to stimulate us, the National Assembly, how to stimulate economic operators, legal persons to give more to Slovenian sport. Some of you, I believe, have a problem with who's first-signed. The fact that I'm first-signed is fake news. The first to be signed is one of the leaders of the coalition's parliamentary group. Fake news. You have somehow anchored yourself in your views in Article 59, which makes all this possible and so on. Unfortunately, this article doesn't work, unfortunately. You also talked about the numbers on how many taxpayers are being paid tax reliefs under Article 59. But you don't tell me how many sports donors there are. Because parts and other legal entities donate to sports companies, but it is also often so that the director or owner of the share opens the wallet and gives the company president a cash receipt and so on. But it is such a problem that the state gives up 380 euros if someone, some d.o.o., gives a thousand euros to a sports society. And you say there will be abuse. What abuses? We write exactly which societies are eligible, which companies are on the list that can get these thousands of euros. If we have not carefully written, let us tighten these criteria in the second reading. Besides, colleagues and colleagues, were you any kind of presidents or were you company presidents? I hope that in the future we will have another citizen, a citizen who will even want to become or want to become president of a society operating under the Social Act. Article 6 of the Social Act makes a very serious provision. For any scumbags, excuse the expression, he's responsible for simplifying, the president of society with all his assets, with all his assets. So don't just say that society's gonna be like I don't know how to handle this money. I know roughly how, at least in the countryside, sports societies work; very fair. And now they're gonna come back with calendars and this way, just like firemen are collecting money. That's okay, too. But we don't tell the economy to give more money. We used to say a socially responsible company. Let us stimulate him to be even more socially responsible. I fear for such a country that cannot give up 380 euros if the donor gives a thousand euros to a sports society. Of course, it is nice to hear that the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, opened the Nordi center of Planica. Great, congratulations to him, maybe even more so to those who started building this Nordic center. There's not much memory to have here. It is usually so that the government that starts an investment because elections are not a Thanksgiving, so it is not rewarded. And then someone else comes along or even a third, fourth government to cut the tape. I have noticed, dear colleagues, that you have somehow squeezed your teeth and slowly left this hall behind. I believe it is not easy for you to say that this law is wrong, that this law harms Slovenian sport and that this law harms Slovenia. That was the message. This was some sort of joint message we heard from the coalition. You said why not culture. Come on. If we call sports, you say why not culture? If we call it culture, you say why not sport? This is where we focused only on sports. However, I am deeply disappointed that this ministerial apparatus or government apparatus was not more innovative in its opinion. And this is a fantastic non-innovation that we could hear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u199	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs. Monica Gregorčič has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u200	Thank you very much. For the beginning of this debate, I would first point out the entire legal regime applicable to the corporate tax. This is one of the key systemic laws governing capital taxation and, as such, has a significant impact on the strategic decisions of companies to attract new domestic and foreign investments. The current law has been in force since 2007 and to date, that is, in 12 years of application, it has been amended 15 times. This fact already has much to say about the stability and predictability of our business environment. As regards the additional financing of sport addressed to fellow Members from New Slovenia, I certainly agree that this is a very important social area and needs additional financial resources. Sport has a positive impact on the mental, physical and mental condition and health of people, as well as the achievements of our top athletes give us pride when we monitor their really good results when they promote our country in this way. Therefore, in the past mandate period, the sports industry has also paid more attention to financial resources after the multi-annual crisis period. Members' fellow Members, in the positions of the members of the groups, pointed out almost all of them in the order of article 59 of the Law on Taxation on the Profit of Legal Persons, which already makes it possible to finance sports activities as well as humanitarian, disability, scientific, cultural organisations. However, the facilities provided by this Article are limited. They are limited to 0,3 % of the total annual turnover of the company. I agree that this is some low-level border, but there must be a limit to avoid possible abuses, bad practices, the spillover of profits, possibly even money laundering. You have focused your colleagues in Novi Slovenije mainly on the sport area. I want to know why and what criteria have led you to this, because also humanitarian organisations, educational activities, cultural organisations, all need additional resources. It is difficult to say that sport has priority over the needs of people who fight for existence; rather than humanitarian activities. This law, which you have proposed, also has an impact on the budget. As a result of the proposed higher tax incentives, the tax inflows to the budget will be reduced. However, you have not even assessed the level of these financial consequences, nor have you proposed any compensatory measures, and I would say that you have not even proposed the abolition of any other, perhaps less necessary relief. Unfortunately, because of this very partial approach to this law, we cannot support it; not because it would be proposed by you, colleagues from New Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u201	Mag. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u202	First of all, why sports? Because the sports area needs money. We do not say that other areas do not need this, but things need to be solved in segments just because there is no abuse of the system, because each area is its own. Therefore, the reason why sport; and because sport has recently had significant difficulties in obtaining adequate resources. With regard to budget cuts, this thing is very insurmountable, because I don't know how much an entrepreneur will be, how much the economy will donate to sport. He may be; he may not be. I am sure it will be much more than it is today, because the tax will be much more interesting. I also imagine that this will not cause any public and budgetary crisis, for at least two reasons. The first reason is because many companies, which are well-standing and have enough money, would encourage this law to be tax-optimised in Slovenia, not abroad. This is a very important thing that many overlook. The second key is that many entrepreneurs are also looking for innovative solutions to tax optimization in Slovenia. With this law, these innovative solutions would simply be abandoned and would be used by this law because they would in a perfectly good way lead to a reduction in the tax base and at the same time do something good for the community. And also about the current law. You all point out that the current law already provides for tax reliefs, but these reliefs are miserable. If you don't believe me, ask the craftsmen, entrepreneurs, businessmen who deal with these things; and everyone will tell you the same. Given how bureaucraticly complicated this is, they prefer to put it out of their pocket and the request is concluded. This system, which we propose, would be fiscally interesting, is an essential difference. Today we have a tax-free system for donations, under this law we would have a tax-interesting system; and this is a significant difference. And once again, this money would not go to tax havens, but it would be spent here, for our youth, for our athletes, for this sports infrastructure that would remain in Slovenia, would not move to Cyprus. These are the main features and points of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u203	Thank you for your position. Now he's got the word "magic." Andrey Shircelj. But get ready for Mr Blaž Pavlin.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u204	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! In this debate on the amendment of one Article of one tax law, we can speak from different perspectives. One can talk about an accounting issue, a minor financial matter, the other can talk about how this big fiscal impact on the state budget will almost collapse and so on. There is nothing clear here as far as this can be done, a third on an effective tax rate and so on. But it can be said otherwise. These positions of the parliamentary groups actually represent the attitude of the parliamentary groups towards sport and sport regulation. In particular, the relationship to whether sport should be governed primarily by the State or whether sport should also be regulated by the private sector, the economy and so on. Yes, there are also state-owned companies in the economy, I know that, but it would certainly give us more power, a greater role for the private sector to find a link between the private sector of the economy and sport. I can't talk very much about what multiple effects this can have for the country, because athletes are actually representing a country that is a promoter of the country and can also promote the economy. And here it shows, ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental relationship of the coalition to regulating sport, which has always been a very important story in history. Here we have different ways of financing sport today in the world. One is based more on private relations to put private people into sport, especially in capitalist economies, but if you look at a little history, you will see that in the most solid socialist societies, the state has always taken care of sport and youth. And in most of these views it was said: No, it is not necessary for individuals to do so, for the state will arrange it. We have the Sports Act, we have the Ministry, and there are 20 million reserved for sport and the state already knows who, how, and why and what to give to sport. The country is the one to handle everything, to the last detail. On this basis, the philosophy of all these opinions is based on the strengthening of state interventionism in sport as well. This is a matter of state interventionism and it is easy to prevent the private sector, with its entrepreneurship role, from actually allowing greater financing of sport and for the economy and sport to be more connected. And you will all say that economy and sport should be connected, economy and science, economy and culture and so on. However, when it comes to a minor, accounting financial matter in some article of the law; not here. But the philosophy is: No, we will know that the country is the one who knows the most who to finance and how to finance. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, your views actually point to this philosophy. But history has overtaken this philosophy. History has thrown away, put such philosophy and the role of the state in sport at the dump. These views may seem a little bit like reading them 50 years ago. From this point of view it's really a little bit questionable whether you're going to give a little bit more importance to a private initiative or not. That's what this is about, that's the question. In several opinions of the parliamentary group, it was said: Systemically, we will arrange this. Who's us? Yes, once again, the country will be the one that will systematically regulate something on some criteria and stifle private encouragement, because the country is once again almighty. As much as possible, it should be strengthened and extended to the last sports society, what and how and who should actually get the money there. This philosophy is what this is all about. I'm sorry, but history has overtaken this philosophy, and I think it's a little archaic, kind of archaic. Another thing that's important here is how it's going to affect the fiscus. Ladies and gentlemen, our finances are such that this will have no effect on the fiscus. Nothing, not even the promiscuity, will affect the fiscus. And the multiplicity of such solutions can be much greater. However, do not think that the country always has the “best” nose to know who to encourage in sport. Today, too, it is likely that if the state financed Tina Maze, there would probably not be as many gold, silver, and Olympic medals. It's a typical case, and there's a lot of them. But no, this has to be choked, it doesn't have to be encouraged. It doesn't have to be encouraged because it's the country that knows it most. And with regard to the financial effects, ladies and gentlemen, public finances will not collapse completely and nothing will actually happen. I did not specifically mention any group of Members here, but one said that this should even be given to a constitutional opinion. Be serious. Because someone's going to make a donation, it's a matter of constitutional review. If there is a debate, I will tell which parliamentary group has said so. What you read, give a little rational, read a little bit earlier, not everything someone writes, indeed. The next thing I want to talk about is abuse. There is no authority to control all possible and impossible abuses. Here again is the basic philosophy of all these coalitions, which is that the private sector will abuse every matter and that the entrepreneur is the one who is the enemy of this society, this country, and will abuse at any moment, which will be possible to do anywhere in fact. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to entrepreneurs we have employment today, because of entrepreneurs we have people working today. And it's not the other way around. And what worries me most is that here I would actually ask the Madam Secretary of State to explain the following. Among other things, the Government's opinion says – the opinion is not marked on the sides; secondly, I would ask if the Government could also write that we would be able to communicate more easily – and at the end of the fourth page is a sentence that says: “This verification” is the right verification of this donation, “does not fall within the scope of the control of the tax authority, but the condition itself does not fall within tax law. There is also no sanction for violating any of the conditions required.” This means the conditions for money to be used differently. Madam Secretary of State, this law does not impose sanctions because it is a tax-material law. But we also have a procedural law, if I may tell you, like the Tax Procedure Act. You probably know or you don't know, so I'm explaining to you if you don't know that we also have the Tax Procedure Act; you're covering the tax area at the Ministry of Finance. In addition, we have the Tax Service Act, which has a provision in Article 23 concerning the tax procedure. And now tell me how and on the basis of which provisions, in substance, do not need articles, the tax authority will supervise this law in accordance with the Tax Procedure Act. In other words, does this law and the provisions of this law not fall under the Tax Procedure Act? Because if you say they don't belong, then I'll ask you the following. In this Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, we have a 100 % relief for research and development. And I take the example that company X enforces a 100 % R & D relief by ordering you to make one patent product to Institute Jožef Stefan. Can the tax authority verify this or not? Because you, when you say that the tax authority is not responsible for this matter, also say that it is not competent to control the money they spend on and for which companies apply research and development benefits. In this case, when I told you to order the Institute to make a patent. If you say that, dear Government, then I don't know what all those provisions are that are extremely aggressive towards taxpayers, on the basis of which, by the way, taxpayers pay thousands of euros in fines because they sell mushrooms on the road or petersils on the market. Then what happens in this country if the Government or the Ministry of Finance says that this does not apply. And I assure you that under the Tax Procedure Act, the tax authority has all the powers to see this. I'm not talking about whether it's economical or not, I'm saying whether it has jurisdiction or not. Because you say in your opinion that he doesn't. Then there's not much else to do. Why, then, lays down such difficult administrative conditions for the enforcement of R & D relief? He doesn't have the right to watch where the taxpayer gave that money, or to really give it to relief and development. This worries here, I hope it's a simple mistake here, a typist's mistake or whatever. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is a fundamental relationship, for the first time, to how the state is supposed to work towards sport, and, secondly, to the fact that the Government and the Ministry of Finance have said, "No, we will not do this." It's non-systematic, and we're going to do it systemically. Ladies and gentlemen, such things are not regulated systematically, however you wish. This is about whether you want to do something. And if you want to do something, you'll have a motive. And since you will have a motive, then it will be possible to do so. Or you'll say, "We don't want that." And really say, "We won't do it." And without these arguments, because with these arguments, which they actually don't hold, you're only giving the opposition a chance to discuss. Because all of this, most of the stuff you've said here, why don't you support it, it's a bit of a hair draw. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u205	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You challenged the government's representative. It'll be interesting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u206	Thank you for the questions. First of all, I would like to answer about the criminal procedure and control when companies or legal persons invest or invest part of their profits in relief. The infringement procedure shall be governed by a tax procedure by the tax authority. They are perfectly clear provisions. The provisions are set out in the tax procedure and this is a clear provision. There are no other provisions here.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u207	Thank you for your position. Mr Blaž Pavlin has the floor. But get ready, Mr. Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u208	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. One of the rare things about which Slovenians are united is definitely sport. In the success of our athletes, let us forget about ideological and political divisions, because our athletes are our best ambassadors. With pride and Slovenian flag we cheer for them. What about the country's contribution to the development of sport? Do we properly repay successful athletes for their success? I don't think so. Let us quickly forget the promises made with the success of our athletes. Here I am not referring to the most successful athletes and large clubs, which have largely adequate infrastructure, enough sponsors; but I am thinking mainly of smaller societies, clubs and individuals that come from smaller environments and represent a base for top sports success. More must be invested in recreational sports, more needs to be done to improve the conditions for younger selections. By confirming the New Slovenia proposal that we are considering today, we would encourage local entrepreneurs and craftsmen to have a greater interest in investing money in local societies and clubs, and in particular in local sports infrastructure. In New Slovenia we are convinced that the adoption of our law would make an important contribution to the development of sport with us. I'm sure Slovenian athletes deserve it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u209	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Member Alexander Reberšek has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Jernej Vrtovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u210	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I always thought sports was one of the rare things that unites us, and today I see that's obviously not the case. For I support the efforts of all sports companies to get as many people involved in sport as possible, and in particular I support the involvement of children in different sports societies as possible. When I listened to all your reasons for not supporting our proposal today, I spoke to the sports club coach, who is in the fourth league, and I can also give you specific information. And the most worrying thing is that a club in the fourth league can't survive without sponsors and donors, while most of the money it collects from the local community and from the drills paid by parents of children in these societies. Most of the expenditure is intended for connection and for renting halls, travel costs, material costs for jerseys, balls and something small also to pay the costs of coaches. For this very reason, we have proposed a bill in New Slovenia that introduces a new relief for companies that donate to all these sports companies. It offers a reduction of the tax base by the double amount of the grant paid. Such a proposal of the law before us helps these societies to continue training and rearing their children in a sports spirit with their money. And most importantly, children get used to working habits and get pulled off the streets. I wish that we would not only be a nation that will cheer on the couch, which on Facebook will like the publications of our athletes and rightly also enjoy our good results; but I want our children and as many of our citizens to engage in sports – a healthy spirit in a healthy body. It surprises me, however, what a proposal for a law should be prepared to be supported by coalition Members. What would be okay? The problem is again and only in one letter – in the letter M and in the letter V, I have already talked about it. If you had suggested it, you would have supported it; because we did, and you wouldn't. Tell all our citizens that coalition Members do not support sport in our country. And it's only right that this nation knows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u211	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor. But get ready, Mr. Victory Jelinčič Noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u212	Good evening, everybody! Ladies and gentlemen, in Novi Slovenija we love sport, we like to participate in sports and we want to do the same, so that we do not go to Prešeren's market, to the Golden Fox in Kranjsko Gora, to the Stožice or to the Human Garden only when our athletes reap success, but that we can do something concrete as a policy. And if ever, today is the opportunity. The Ministry of Finance has in no way convinced me that this law should be rejected. And even all the coalition's arguments about why this law is not appropriate do not convince. So this is about the attitude towards sport, as we are prepared as a country to make our sport progress. Well, not just that. We all want — as a nation — a strong, successful sport, successes, medals, medals, we all look forward to it. But in spite of all this, one crucial time before success comes. Mr. Gregor Jewn will know that very well. It's nice to play for Maribor because you're a virtuoso and you have Maribor Insurance for a sponsor, you're in the championship league, you're in the team, you're good, and you can live well. But before you become one, you have to give a bunch of selections, don't you, Mr. Jew.? A bunch of selections, from younger boys, older boys, cadets, young people, and no one's sponsoring you except your parents. In football, Mr. Jew, it's cheap because you need shoes, short pants and a short shirt; it's different when skiing. Where we need more demanding infrastructure, it is even more expensive when parents have to invest large financial resources in their children's recreation; not that they are addicted to television or playing computer games. And now we are talking about whether we want to have as a perspective that children are training to be successful athletes; or whether they are in front of television. And if anyone does, today, Mr Židan will be the one who pushes the button to support this law proposed by New Slovenia, because we also want to support the fact that our youngest sports players are making progress in order to develop. And what does New Slovenia propose? Due to financial undernutrition, Slovenian sport is certainly in a great deal of trouble today. Even after we give the awards, when we make the receptions, remember the problems of Tina Maze, Ilke Štuč, a little less, remember the problems with all the sponsors, how athletes who are successful fight for their own survival; not to talk about younger selections or those who will never succeed. Sport is financially highly nourished and in fact in a very large spasm, and according to our proposal, companies that would donate to sports companies, sports institutions, would receive so-called tax relief. This tax relief would encourage companies to donate more money to sport. And another important element is here, we have clear rules in the law, to whom and how. On the left hand side, it was mentioned that we do not have up to the limit. I'm asking you as much as the company can. But there is also one significant difference. On the one hand, if I understand the government correctly, you want to regulate for yourself how to share, companies put money out and you want to continue on various calls, which means that the country is still a regulator. Why not allow entrepreneurs, businesses, companies to determine for themselves who, how and how? And here's the difference in our concepts. We want to limit the State's impact on donations here and the state would collect less taxes and sport would remain more on our proposal. How many times? Three times as many. We have mentioned many times how this system would go if a company with a profit of EUR 10 000 to a sports company donated thousands of euros, such a company would be subject to a tax reduction of EUR 360. The country would give up 360 Euros of tax, and Slovenian sport would receive as many as 1,000 Euros of additional support. Do you care when we compare these numbers? Believe me, there's a thousand euros worth of money for NK Vipava. Isn't that right, Matjaž German? For NK Bilje there is a thousand euros, Mr Vice President, a lot of money. And why would they restrict me to why the state needs this money? I see no reason, therefore I expect responsibility for the future of Slovenian sport by the ruling coalition. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that by introducing such a mechanism into the Slovenian tax system, we would contribute significantly to the development of sport in our country, and in particular to burden our parents with the youngest ones for whom sponsorship companies have no interest in advertising on their jerseys, to encourage them to continue doing so. To at least go a little bit against the companies that give donations to small clubs in villages, allowing them to still operate there and allow younger selections to participate in this way. Before a large picture of sports successes is always behind, this is the involvement of younger people when they climb the ladder and once become Tina Maze 2, Ilka Štuhec or NK Maribor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u213	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I assume you were talking about that Jew who grows football, and not the other one who grows Nordic walking. Mr. Tonin, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u214	I hope that there will be as many of these Jews in Slovenia as possible who will cultivate such or other sport. Of course, this will depend primarily on us here, what tax environment we will create for this sport to survive. Nordic walking is financially less difficult than some hockey, curling or other sports industries, and no sports industry is bad. In the course of this debate, which is accompanied today by some representatives of various sports associations, I received a very interesting email that says about – when some were afraid of possible abuses under our law – the following: From the presentation of the parliamentary groups, it is clear that they are not exactly aware of these elements that you are exposing. They do not know how companies acquire the status of operation in the public interest, they do not know how and which companies can participate in the co-financing calls they call on local communities, namely municipalities, they do not know the calls of the Sport Foundation and what conditions they must fulfil for companies to be successful in obtaining funds. And that's why they don't understand that abuse is virtually impossible. That's not what I told you. That's what someone who's known in sports for years. This is a key reason why we have laid down the law in such a way that this law would not really be used for wrong purposes. If you have a problem with our suggestions, then I ask you what your systemic solution is. How can sport get more money if you don't want to enable sport to get at least what you can? At a time when there is some economic growth, when it is a conjuncture, companies could donate, of course, under appropriate tax frameworks. And once again, I hope that we all understand what our proposal is, I will say it again at home. If a company donates thousands of Euros, it will be worth 2,000 Euros to the company. I think everyone understands how things work. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u215	Thank you. Mr. Victory Jelinčič has the floor. As the last one, Mr. Franz Kramar should be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u216	Thank you very much. The law is ready to help young and small sports companies and amateur athletes. The Slovenian young population is in extremely poor physical condition. Huge is obesity, reduced mobility, lower muscle development, lower levels of physical resistance, resistance to disease, and consequently weakened mental development. And against the insidious functioning of the coalition. It seems that the coalition doesn't care what happens to our young generation; after all, it's not about state money. The country wants to collect every hundred; even at the expense of children and youth. Furs is very cruel here and is essentially carrying out tax terrorism in Slovenia. But at least it'll be different for the kids. Let it be a little less fossy with some coalition partners who don't care what happens to children, only that there will be a little more money in their tax box, so they can share with their new secretary of state, who also comes from sports circles. I think it is high time for people to overlook what this coalition wants and how difficult it is to provide children and young people with normal development.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u217	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Franz Kramar, it's your last. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u218	Thank you very much, President. In today's debate on sport, I think there has been a lot of demagogism, a lot of populism, and this is something I can't accept. The fact is that the matter is serious, that it is a tax relief in the field of sport and that it is necessary to talk about it. We forget too much that there are not many big sponsors in Slovenia. I could count them on my fingers maybe two hands. Most are based on relationships, not on companies or clubs. From my experience, I know how difficult it is for sports companies on the periphery, which are only closely linked to community grants, well, some are happier, they also have grants from the Sports Foundation. If I focus on the Hockey Club Jesenice, it is a club with one of the longest traditions in Slovenia, a club with a number of national titles. Regardless of the fact that Gorenjska is supposed to be developed, entrepreneurship is supposed to be stronger than in other parts of Slovenia, this club fights every year whether it will participate or not, whether it will survive or not. In the past, this was quite different. She was the Iron Jesenice, who was the main sponsor, and she was a big help in making this club a good life. However good the intention of the proposer was to help the sponsors, I personally think that if the proposal came with the idea that the whole donation would be taken into account as the cost of the company, it would be recognised and not additionally taxed. This may be one of the things that needs to be considered in the future and also defined. We are all for sport, we all know the success of sport, Slovenia is in third place, as far as the number of inhabitants and winners of the Olympic medals is concerned. That's amazing. And such results suggest that sport should be treated, my cousin Bučar would say, with a shaking hand; not just sports, but culture. Where are the sponsors for cultural activities and other activities in this country? It seems to me that sport has been favored here as the most popular one, reaching the most people in Slovenia, is the most touching. I think we'll talk about sports in the future. And I am sure that then someone will lead us together to try to find a way to get sponsors; although I stress once again, there are relatively few large sponsors in Slovenia, not on the periphery because everyone is rounding it up. Even if tax relief is in the way proposed by the proposer, the situation will not be any better, because if you are willing to play sports, you will contribute under such tax conditions; even if they change, you will not contribute if you have not contributed under the previous conditions. I think the sport debate is still going on. I think we all support sports to look at it. In the end, I think that the "red facade" is a compliment and thanks for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u219	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your word. Mag. Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u220	Ambassador Kramar, I appreciate that you have come to this debate today and that you have debated because many of your coalition colleagues have failed to do so, but they are sitting and laughing at us a little. That's why I appreciate you coming forward to the debate. Unfortunately, I have to find out that you haven't read the law. But it's okay. I can explain the essentials one more time. You said that this law would be supported if this donation were already counted as the basic costs of the company. This is exactly what the law states in article 59a, which we are correcting, states that what the company is donating is considered to be a reduced tax base, according to domestically, this is considered to be a cost, in this entrepreneurial language. And since this is considered a cost, he will end up paying less tax than profit. What you said you would support, if that were the case, is exactly what the law says. That's one thing. That's another thing. I agree with you when you say there are no big sponsors. Large sponsors are these large state-owned companies, such as the Triglav Insurance Company, Petrol, which is not entirely state-owned and some major Slovenian companies. But these large Slovenian companies are mainly sponsoring prominent Slovenian athletes and successful Slovenian sports industries. And they sponsor them through a sponsoring contract that is considered to be a cost to companies in one way or another, according to their own words. And we're talking about donations in this law. Donations. This means that the company does not expect anything in return for its donation, except for this tax deduction. That's the big change. And these donations would primarily support sports clubs, societies that are less recognizable, even because of their commercial unattractiveness, cannot afford to get money from large companies; they can also get donations from small local entrepreneurs, those who donate not 100 000 euros, but they donate 500 euros, 1,000 euros, 2,000 euros. Believe me, if what you have said, Mr Kramar, has been put into practice – and this would be done by our law, that if an entrepreneur donated to a sports club, a football club, a thousand euros, and that would cost him 2,000 euros, it would be extremely interesting for him. And back to the part I told you about earlier that this law would allow Slovenian companies to be tax-optimised on Slovenian soil and for the common social benefit. It seems to me something fantastic and very good, not to fly to Cyprus and other tax havens. And that is why our law is absolutely in support of sport, and especially in terms of creating some context where donations will take place. Now that donations are tax-free, we all know what's going on. When you beg for various local sports companies, you go to those entrepreneurs you know. And he donates this money to a sports club or society not because he expects any benefit from it, but because he may know you because he wants to help a sports club and society. And believe me, with this law, the willingness would be much greater. And that's the point. Not from the state budget, but from accounts of successful companies that can afford it. The country would go against them only in the part where they would be willing to give up the work of taxes. Not entirely, part of the taxes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u221	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Since you were mentioned, you have the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u222	Thank you very much. I don't think Mr. Tonin and I obviously didn't get along. I'm talking about what we've been talking about, the whole discussion that the entrepreneur decides from the company's profits to give a thousand euros in donations. And then that's taken into account. However, I have talked about the contribution of donorism from its activities; and this is the cost that it imposes as the costs of the company. And here's the difference, because so far it's not that recognized. It's taxed. But if this were to be taken into account as the company's income, if I were to express it, then the company's profits would be lower for the grant, but this donation did not have the tax burden it now has.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u223	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u224	Ambassador Kramar, I really can't imagine a company donating to its loss or to its damage. It seems logical and normal to me that an entity must first create some profit so that this profit can then be shared through donations. I can't imagine anything else.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u225	Thank you very much for your position. Dear Members, in the first round, when there is no time-sharing, we have concluded the list. The word is from a representative of the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u226	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to stress once again that the taxpayers announced 65 million EUR 248,000 in revenue in 2017. Of this, 0.3% of the relief was only worth 23 million; however, they could draw for 196 million. The debtors do not even benefit from this relief to the full. Then we did the analysis for three more years. And this analysis for the first paragraph of Article 59 for three years. The rate of relief in relation to the total reduction of the tax base and tax reliefs over the last three years is only 1.3 % under Article 59, paragraph 1. Taxpayers do not benefit from this relief at all or benefit from it to such a small extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u227	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. The word has magic. Tonin as a representative of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u228	Secretary of State, just one thing. The current relief is untapped because it is simply not interesting for companies. Uninteresting, however, is the fact that it is absolutely too easy to deal with these things.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u229	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, all those of you who wish to do so have your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Yeah. Then we're going to share time. Thank you very much. We've got seven applicants. The first one has the word Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u230	Your Honor! Thank you so much for saying that. The show that NSI is offering us today, but it's really beneath the level, I'm sorry. I come from the periphery, I play football my whole life in small clubs in villages. What you've presented to us today is more than anything that could help us there. I'm speechless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u231	You are one of the few debaters who will officially find that you are speechless. Thank you very much. Mr. Gregor Jewn has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u232	Good-bye! Finally, a footballer called. I'll use your trick today, and I'll say I won't vote against it. I know it's okay, but it's not moral. I'm supposed to support this law, but we're doing discrimination between small and big clubs. Sorry, Maribor and Olympia are doing the biggest propaganda in football in Slovenia. Is it true? This is also said to be sponsored, donated, and also made it possible for those entrepreneurs to make some profit out of it. Next thing. I was also a small sponsor to Matthew Ferrian, sadly the late speedster. I did it with my heart. Just because I wanted to, I didn't want any bonification in my company. Next thing we know, the biggest sponsors in the clubs are parents. It used to be. In my time as I grew up, the state paid for everything — coaches, travels and jerseys. And the sponsors were just sweets or donors, as you'd like to call them. One more thing really bothers me. According to your great ambassadors, they won't be able to be financed under this law of yours. This is the goal of Slovenia to finance Peter Prevac as well. Sometimes Matthew the World, NK Maribor, NK Olympia. We've got Domžal, we've got Krško. There are other clubs, including basketball, other sports, Jesenice. And that is why I will oppose because not all clubs are the same We are aware that we are working the future with young people, but today we are living in today's world and we also need to give something to those who give to ambassadors. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u233	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u234	Thank you, President, for your word. I was just checking with the proponents to see if we were reading the same law regarding small and large clubs and obviously also small and large sponsors. And I didn't see the difference. Allow all those in the coalition who oppose this law to read your coalition contract, which you apparently throw too many times in the trash. Challenge: ensuring stable and development-oriented financing of sport comparable to other countries. Measures: We will create a more favourable tax environment for investing in sport. And today we have a proposal from the New Slovenia Group saying: We will create a more favourable tax environment for investing in sport. And the same coalition is now against. In 2020, you will probably be bragging about how the previous government was the one that finally established the Nordic centre of Planica. But I admit that I expected a coalition against it. Not only because people from the Ministry of Finance are usually against taking money from them and giving money to someone else; but also because we are experiencing a mantra from the previous and also the current mandate; when the opposition proposes, the coalition does not even think, nor does it speak, but it is automatically against. But look what this coalition did in the previous term and what a recycled coalition in the current term has done for Slovenian sport. You have passed the Sport Act, which is announced by at least two constitutional complaints, because it is unconstitutional and is in minus Slovenian sport and Slovenian athletes. You've reduced the funds to the Sports Foundation. You haven't done anything for the sports infrastructure. No amendment or even one of mine you've accepted for $2 million, you haven't done anything else. Under the dictatorship of the current Minister for Foreign Affairs in the re-vote, the law on gambling submitted by the former SMC Member has been put to the basket. Although you say you have nothing to do with this, SDH made a recommendation – a cap on sponsorship and donations where the annual amount of state-owned enterprises can only be 0.1% of their profits in the past year for sport. I know what I'm saying because I know people in state-owned companies. And now let's go to this – big or small clubs. I come from a municipality where we have clubs in the first and second leagues, handball, football, and we also have clubs in the Medo-Chinese recreational league, which remains in small and large football and basketball. And I am also a municipal councillor from this area, where I propose to raise at least €10,000 each year more investment in sport. In the municipality of Sevnica, because the state does not support the economy to give more to sport, the municipality, i.e. citizens and citizens, has to contribute more to sport, in addition to parents. But the municipalities are obviously still following this pace, the economy is no longer following this pace, the need for more investment in sport, because the state does not support sport and the state does not support economists. Why did I stop by? Last week, I sat with four sports local officials who asked me if I could find a way to smaller sponsors, including 300 euros, to organize a football game in the first state league, the first state league, they would like it very much; to those who ask if they might find any sponsors for thousands or 2,000 euros at the annual level we talked about. I am not as strong as some individuals, politicians, even in this Chamber, who easily provide 200 000 euros to a sports club or society with one call, what some mayors, especially the largest cities, are doing, but they can enjoy 200 000 euros. It is sad to say, however, that we are talking about aiding sports in amounts such as thousands, 2,000, 5,000 euros. If there is at least little interest in giving at least a little to encourage Slovenian sport, we should support the proposal of the New Slovenia Group. It is not about any matters under the belt, as said the left-hand man who plays football, but it is about very serious matters to help Slovenian sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u235	Thank you. You have a procedure, Mr. Jew.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u236	I would only point out that a thousand Euros and an NK Olympia to Maribor mean a lot to NK Maribor because they work with children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u237	Where's the motion? I warn you, as well as the other Members, that they do not violate the rules of procedure. Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u238	Thank you for your word. The President, colleagues and colleagues, I will support the law on my own because I believe that it provides more funding for societies at local level. We know that all of the top athletes we know today have, as a rule, been mutilated primarily in these societies. I will also support it because I know how difficult it is for societies to raise financial resources; I am now the third term as municipal councilor; I have always been in the Committee on Education, Culture, Education and Sport, where we have allocated the financial resources allocated to the budget of the municipality for the current year. I know that the main financial resources that companies receive and then use for their activities continue to come from donations, voluntary contributions, from members' own financial resources and from the various activities that members of society do, ranging from directing to lending some kind of benches, equipment. In the Committee on Sport itself, we have always had problems with how to allocate resources according to the annual sport programme that each municipality can continue to adopt each year and which is then the basis for the allocation of funds under clear criteria, since there are several items in this annual sport programme or more dedicated funds, several categories. Some would put more into the free sports education of children and young people, others would spend more money on quality sport, again on top sports, then we also have an area for sports recreation where there are some opinions that there should not be so much money for recreation because the municipality or the state is not in charge of financing the leisure activities of citizens or in this case of citizens. We must always find some compromise where we will direct the financial resources. And I can say we're quite pleased. For example, in the Poljanska Valley we have two of the best ski jumpers in Slovenia, Emma Klinec and Nika Križnar. Surely these two ladies could also help with this law, for we all know how financial funds are raised in the countryside. In a rural municipality where there are 7 000 and 600 of us, virtually everyone knows each other, those who are in clubs are related to local entrepreneurs, are acquaintances of local entrepreneurs. Companies that are socially responsible – or if I do not use your language, the language of some: those who are in national interest – themselves also finance these social activities of sports and other societies; and so. However, if we can help Members to make this happen more, I don't know why we wouldn't do it. Today we have an excellent opportunity to do this because I think that people don't resent politicians so much that we want to do this, you want to take pictures with athletes, and you want to take pictures with athletes, and you want nothing done, so that they can stand there justly. The awards received by our Olympics are, according to all the effort and all the financial resources that have been invested in recent years to achieve such a result, somewhat bizarre. As regards sport, in the previous mandate, co-financing for the construction and reconstruction of sport infrastructure has also been well demonstrated. In four years, only EUR 5 million has been allocated to this area. In Gorenje village, we are currently completing the construction of a gym that will cost little less than €4 million. We didn't get the euro from the invitation to tender. Half a million came from the Eco Fund, about EUR 200 000 from the Sport Foundation, and everything else had to be provided from around EUR 10 million worth of budget, which is a pretty good amount for the municipality with 7 000 600 inhabitants. I will support this marriage; but I cannot agree to it. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u239	Just a minute. There's been a mistake. He's been counting for the next five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u240	There's only half a minute left.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u241	No, it's not. Half a minute. How did you manage to count on a new one?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u242	The microphone's off.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u243	Then you must also learn to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u244	The microphone went off. I think there was a mistake on your side.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u245	I respect every innovation, you still have 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u246	That's all I'm going to conclude is that I don't agree to these arguments, why just sports. In the previous mandate, there was a proposal for a cultural euro and then I can return with the question why the cultural euro, why not the sports euro, why not the humanitarian euro. In short, I'll back it up.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Lenart has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u248	Thank you for your word, President. I got out of the debate before, but no harm done, there's plenty of time left. Personally, I am a longtime sportsman and also an athlete. Besides, I was also a financier, accountant and today's topic very close to me. You don't have to laugh, but I'll be honest with you. It's very simple for me to say a few things today. I've made my point before, but now I can do it more in person. I assure you that it is not a problem in the opposition's proposal, your proposal, but there are problems elsewhere, at least in my opinion. In the first place, we followed the expert opinion of the government, the ministry, which today has also given its position; and as an accountant, as an analyst, I will give much to this opinion. Professional distribution of money for societies, especially for societies, because today it is important – for sport, it is shared at local level, and professionally, based on their good programmes, based on work. As a longtime sports worker, I think this is very important and right, this is the professional division of how someone works, what is crowds, from these perspectives, so that they do not explain here for a long time. I've been working hard on this fencing myself, believe me, for 40 years when I'm working on this area, and I'm very clear. What you are talking about today has also been discussed with entrepreneurs what would have been the effect if these reliefs had been greater. Believe me, I've been working on this a lot, they said it was almost nothing. That's why I used to give that opinion the way I did. And as has already been said today, more than tax relief is the criterion of this belonging, this is what parents' contributions and the permeability of sports workers are called to acquire these funds. These are the main facts because we are now talking about reliefs on donations, on gifts; not on other matters. But that big money is shared or turned in these sports clubs, in these big things, in professional sports. Here are those sponsors who also have their own form of work, that's what they say they're sponsoring. I remember the Mercator case as well as others, and I will not mention all of them, who then, by small printing in their contracts, require suppliers to be a whole chain of suppliers, which must then be donors. That's the big money. But today we're talking about that very little work. I assure you that practically the almost zero effect would be from all of this, purely from practice I am telling you. But believe me or not, it's your area. Today, in my position, if anyone remembers what I was saying, I wanted to point out the broader importance of sports, recreation, these active activities when I was talking about children, health, obesity and what comes out of it. This area, however, is one that, at great cost, affects health, this unhealthy life from children onward. There's a lot going on here, and if we don't get to them right now, we're gonna get a headache. To work preventively, we lose miles here, then with great effort and great resources, we gain miles back. Such a debate as it is today should go this way. Once again, I personally don't believe this effect that you've been talking about today, and all the recognition that we want good sport, that's not the right form. Believe me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u249	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear and esteemed colleague Jože, I very much appreciate you. If this isn't the right solution, which one is it? If you say that you would otherwise support this law, you would not be interested in whether the opposition is a candidate. Wait, how many opposition proposals has the coalition already accepted? Nothing, okay. We are just following what you wrote in the coalition agreement and what the National Assembly adopted on 2, not 1, 2 April 2014, and this is the National Sport Programme in the Republic of Slovenia 2014-2023, which says that tax policy will have to be changed in a way that will stimulate the private sector to finance sport. But after this discussion, I have a feeling that private money isn't good if it goes into the sports sphere. Who's sponsoring, but now we're not talking about sponsors, or who's already funded our top athletes, Tina Maze, and so on? Private money or state money? That's why I was talking about the red facade, not the red political view, but the rustling. Normally, I felt sorry for the minister when she was whistled here. I'm sorry, I really regret that when you're discussing this, you don't read the laws. I think there was at least about half a speech about sponsoring and donating. The law doesn't talk about sponsorship, it's something else. If we're talking about sponsorship, we're talking about a sponsoring contract. Speaking of donating, there's no contract. And I really regret that. My friend Kramar is not here right now, so I'm not even gonna answer him. If the problem is, it's probably a problem because we suggested that the law be valid with 1. 1. 2019. In the second reading, it should be easily corrected and said to be valid on the 15th day following its publication in the Official Journal. Now, if this double is too small or too much, let's write that it's three times. If it's too much, let's say it's 1.5 times. But I think he had a great discussion of mags. Width, which touched on one very complex issue that somehow hovers over this country. Do we want the state to regulate everything, including sports, even once how we will dress, what we will eat, to be a society of equal plates and so on? Or perhaps we will allow more freedom, ladies and gentlemen? Once again, we slipped for two cities, as far as the freedom of citizens and citizens is concerned. Read the media. I don't want to talk about economic freedom, but when I look at the economic freedom scale for this year, we are 146th out of 162 countries with regard to the presence of a state or a para-state. So we're on a world tail. Why? Because we have too many countries in the economy and, of course, too wide. And here we really wanted to genuinely good Slovenian sport and to engage more private capital. Look, this is gonna have to be a stop. Even in health care, there will have to be more private capital, including in education, because the simple state budget will not be able to because of demographics and so on, I will not explain now because this is another topic again. But how do you hire private capital? So you're tax-stimulating him. It is written in documents adopted by the National Assembly and prepared by this, former or any government. We'll need resources if we want more sport. And I agree, our lives are changing. Our young people sit too much, too much for computers, not sports. And there's no more work on farmers where young people move. Here, however, the country has to have obedience and through tax incentives activate more private capital, promote sport, in some way reward those who invest their money in sport. Or do you rather see it being taken to tax havens?Oh, my God! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u251	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u252	I am observing Mr Han, the informal head of the coalition, who is mocking us a little bit, in the meantime, commenting a little while, if you are doing your best, what you are saying; we have already agreed in the coalition that we will oppose this law. It's the procedure and the work of this coalition. Why am I exposing this thing? Just because you have been talking all the time before the elections about how you will enter into this space a new policy, a new cooperation and a new dialogue. All that's left is a dead letter on paper. And that's what the results are talking about. Nothing, no opposition law has been passed. Not even an attempt at dialogue to try to harmonise it in another law. So much for your truthfulness. The law we have proposed has two articles and six paragraphs. I believe that some find it difficult to find reasons why they oppose this law. They did not try hard to read this law, and then their arguments are on the ground. I believe it's hard for a former football player, Ambassador Jedhan. In previous mandates, former sportsman Wilfan was still a member of the athletes that, when the vote was taken, at least he left this hall without voting against sport. I respect you, Member of the Jews, that you have donated and that you have done so with your heart — gratefully, certainly. I believe that in the past, the state has taken care of everything. But things have changed significantly today. I'm sorry. It's not our fault, it's not you, it's nobody's fault. That's the way it is. And these new circumstances need to be adapted. Surely there are entrepreneurs and craftsmen who give from the heart and are socially responsible. But there are also those who could give if it were worth it. And we want to promise this money to get money from those who could invest in sport, not in tax havens. That's the key point. Read article 59, paragraph 6, of the Bible, article 59a, because you said that you had problems with this, because we distinguish between donors; there is no difference, anyone who can afford it can donate. To distinguish between large and small clubs; there is no difference between large and small clubs, no criterion that if the club is such or different, these donations may be received or should not be received. The same rules apply to small and large ones, namely that sport society, sports association or club should be registered in the Republic of Slovenia and that it must be selected for the implementation of the annual sport programme at national or local level or for the implementation of the annual sport programme of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. It is only that there is no difference between the small and the large, but these provisions prevent this law from being misused for unfair tax optimisation, in order for an entrepreneur to make himself a sports club and transfuse it to reduce his tax base. That's what we wanted to stop. But there's no difference. And you probably know better than I do whether Olympia and Maribor are part of the implementation of the local, municipal annual sports program and if they are implementing the annual sports program of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organizations. You know better than that. And even if you do not know, I believe that Maribor and Olympia are so successful that it is easier to find donors and sponsors on the market than some small local clubs and companies that are not interesting from a commercial point of view. I believe that Olympics have their problems, too, but it seems important to me that we also look at those small societies that can't even afford it. And with this law we could get at least a few thousand euros from those who can still afford to donate to sport. And if there was some genuine willingness on your part, then we would let this marriage go on, and we would seriously discuss it; not by simply being a sport. In the past, a law was passed in which it was written, how many works of art must have a public institution, a cultural center and so on. There's a lot of that.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u253	Thanks, mag. Tonin. With this, honourable Members and honourable Members, I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide in half an hour, in accordance with the time frame of the assembly, in the framework of the votes. I interrupt this item on the agenda of the National Assembly, which we will continue by vote at 7.30 p.m. in half an hour. (The sitting was suspended at 7 p.m. and resumed at 7.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-14-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u254	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue our adjourned meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to a vote on the proposals for decisions, with the assembly voting on the following order: paragraphs 3, 5, 2, 15 and 13 of the agenda. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the developmental restructuring of the region, the urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 6. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplementation to the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, an urgent procedure. Since the amendments to the amended law were not tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interrupted 2nd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Revision Act, the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by the Amendments of 14. 12. 2018, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SMC, Desus and SAB to Article 2. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 19. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the members of the LMŠ, SMC, Desus and SAB for a new Article 103a. We vote 73 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 19. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly adopted the amendment to Article 2 and to Article 103a of the amended law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. Please, you have the floor. No, no, no. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 25. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Complementation of the Construction Law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Construction Law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 26 votes against 48. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 48.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on corporate tax is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 49. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 49.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I conclude the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly, to be resumed on Monday 17 December at 12 noon. Goodbye!
