ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-03-SDZ8-Izredna-01.ana.u1	Dear Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 1st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58(2) and Article 60(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Boris Doblekar, Alenka Jeraj, Zvonko Černač, Jan Mahnic, Marko Bandelli and Dušan Šiško. I welcome everyone else here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 1st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 29 June 2018, with reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting devices. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 1st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-03-SDZ8-Izredna-01.ana.u2	Thank you for your words, President-in-Office, so-called Temporary President of the National Assembly. Look, we're a constitutional parliamentary democracy. Article 3 of the Constitution states what you, Comrade Tonin, as a master of political science know very well: “Slovenia is a state of all its citizens and citizens.” Article 7 of the Constitution states: “The State and religious communities are separate. Religious communities are equal, their operation is free.” Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly! In conclusion, you violated both Article 7 and Article 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia when you were elected. You also violated Articles 14, 19, 34, 35 and 41 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. There's a constitution above us. We are a constitutional parliamentary democracy. You have also offended a number of people who in one way or another solve the issue of numinous. That is why I expect from you, Mr President of the National Assembly, this is a procedural proposal to apologize and to place my trust in you in the future, as your predecessor, Dr Milan Brglez, has often warned you that in fact one of the best interests of democracy is self-restraint. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-03-SDZ8-Izredna-01.ana.u3	My speech is an integral part of freedom of speech in this country, so we proceed. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision setting up and the tasks of the working bodies of the national assembly. The draft decree was tabled by the College of the President of the National Assembly. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. The word is "Victory" by the Elinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-03-SDZ8-Izredna-01.ana.u4	Hello, everybody! Today we are deciding on three committees for the Committee on European Union Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Policy and the General Committee. It is high time that we were united and selected these committees so that we could start working. The fact is, in the field of foreign policy, we are being squeezed by Croats at every turn. In the last ten days, we've had at least three heads. First, lex Agrokor became part of the acquis communautaire, then the European Commission's decision not to interfere with matters concerning the borders between Slovenia and Croatia, and thirdly, Croatia already intervenes in Slovenian territory – what I have already said a long time ago – and they do a schoolyard in Slovenian territorial waters if we take into account the final award. The fact is that it is high time for the National Assembly to adopt firm positions against the Croats. Without these three committees being formed, we will not be able to do so. As regards other matters, financial matters, it is essential that we begin to discuss all matters within the General Committee. The fact is, Western financiers are already thinking about burdening our bonds. Thus, the return on bonds should be higher than it is now, which means that the state will have to give another billion euros if no government is formed or if it tries to form a strange government of four, five, six, seven, fifteen parties. This is a bad trip for the state. From this we can only get a head and a year, a year and a half of early elections. I don't think we're gonna run out of work on these committees. It's going to be huge, it's going to be a whole series of meetings, and I hope we all work for our own country. I can say that for my client and for some. Some parties, however, find this questionable. So let's pick it up, confirm it, and get to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-03-SDZ8-Izredna-01.ana.u5	We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the Group of Members. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision. I am voting on the proposal for a decree on the establishment and tasks of the working bodies of the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda. We're moving to 2. Point of agenda, this is the proposal for a decision on the appointment of the presidents and vice-presidents of the working bodies of the State assembly and on the discharge of the Vice-President and the appointment of the Vice-President of the Management Board. In accordance with the fifth indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 21 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the College of the President of the National Assembly, at its 1st meeting on 29 June 2018, decided that the Chair of the Committee on European Union Affairs shall belong to the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre and to the Vice-Presidents of the Group of New Slovenia, the Christian Democrats and the Group of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Policy shall be the Group of the Social Democrats and the Vice-Presidents shall be the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and the Group of the Slovenian National Party. The Chair of the Joint Committee shall belong to the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca and the Vice-President of the Group of the Left. The College also decided that the Vice-President’s post of Vice-President of the Commission should be replaced by that of the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca. In accordance with the decision of the College, the groups of Members have made proposals for the presidents and vice-presidents of those working bodies, on the basis of which a proposal for a decision has been drawn up which you have received. The panellists are not present, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly's working bodies and on the discharge of the Vice-President and the appointment of the Vice-President of the Electoral Commission. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This concludes item 2 of the agenda. I conclude the first extraordinary session of the National Assembly. Thank you so much and good luck. The meeting was closed on 3 July 2018 at 12.10.
