ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 54th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Iva Dimic, mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar from 15.30 p.m. on, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik from 17.30 p.m. on, Mrs Anita Koleša, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, Miha Kordiš, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Ivan Hršak from 16 p.m. on, mag. Branislav Rajić, Mr Ivan Škodnik from 15.45 to 17:00, Mr Igor Zorčič from 16:00 on, Dr Vinko Gorenak from 16:00 on, Mrs Nada Brinovšek from 16:00 on and Mrs Suzana Lepi Šimenko from 16:00 on, and I will be absent from 18:00 on my own. I say hello to everyone who's here! We continue with item 1 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the situation in the Slovenian Army and the requirements for the opinion of the President of the Republic of Slovenia on this matter. On 5 March 2018, the National Assembly adopted a decision to deliver an opinion within 24 hours on the state of readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces. In accordance with the decision taken by Mr Borut Pahor, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 107 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, sent an opinion to the National Assembly on 6 March which I forwarded to all Members and Members, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 223 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I invite the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, to address the National Assembly and further explain his opinion. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u2	Dear Mr President, honourable Members and Members, Ministers and Ministers, Commissioner, a nice greeting to all! Ladies and gentlemen! Slovenia has found itself in a position where it has to make a deliberate, but without delay update the entire security system. This includes modernisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which is the military pillar of the national security system. Slovenia is not directly under military threat. It is justifiable for a safe country, but the international environment has become significantly more unpredictable and less stable than it was. New safety risks have arisen. Security has become less reliable and security needs to be invested more. In such a situation, in my view, the State must take strategic and, of course, financially sustainable measures to modernise the entire system of national security, not just the military, of course, as one of its pillars. My assessment of the need to modernise the entire national security system – and not just the necessary higher expenditure for the military – is therefore not new for the National Assembly. I introduced her to the National Assembly two years ago in May. The essence of this assessment is that we need a common approach while updating all institutions of the national security system: the military, police, intelligence and civil protection. High choir! The new opinion you requested today is my proposal to do so by law. I propose to the Government and the National Assembly that, on the basis of some other comparable countries, we adopt a law on systemic long-term financing of national security. I understand that such a difficult law cannot be drawn up and adopted in this reference to the National Assembly. Perhaps in these months until this year's parliamentary elections, this will be your best assessment, the opportunity to conclude the debate on the Defence Act and perhaps the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. Both laws are incorporated into the parliamentary procedure. If this were to be successful, I think both would benefit from the needs of the Slovenian Army. In any case, however, the time to form a new government can be useful, including today's debate, to form a necessary political consensus on the fundamental principles of the law that I am advocating, namely the law on systemic long-term financing of national security. High choir! We need political consensus on three things: on current and future security risks – this assessment that we do not have is very important – on conceptual, institutional, material and, of course, human resources modernisation, and – and this is essential – on financial investment in the modernisation of all these institutions. I think we are in a situation where national security is no longer a matter of individual ministries or services, but requires a common and comprehensive approach by the political authorities and all institutions of the national security system. Due to the changed risk factors, demographic changes, changes in the labour market and financial constraints, competition between individual government resources and finance needs to be overcome, and coordinated joint prioritisation and sustained financial support should be ensured. In my opinion, the law would provide a legal basis for a deliberate modernisation of all institutions of the national security system, including the provision of competitive, comparable payments to employees, their quality training, suitable equipment, their sustainable, long-term training and, of course, the financial basis for this. High choir! In the National Assembly, you asked me to give an opinion on the state of readiness in the Slovenian Army. I will receive an annual report on this from the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the Minister at the end of this month. In view of my behaviour on the situation in the Slovenian Army, I do not expect any significant differences from last year's report, but we will hear the exact report when it is prepared by the General Staff by the end of this month and will be completed by the end of the month – I think 29. – mediated by the Minister and Chief of Staff. In any event, I remain in my assessment and I ask you to speak of it — if you consider it to be worth it — that only an increase in the budget for the needs of the Slovenian Armed Forces is not sufficient, and in particular not a comprehensive approach to the strategic security of the State. That is why I have suggested that we reconsider – it will take some time, a few months, maybe a year – and maybe harmonise and draft a law and adopt a law that, for example, France or Poland would essentially ensure the security of the country and its financing in the long term. Slovenia, for all institutions of the national security system – military, police, both intelligence services, civil protection – is now all committed to around 1.8% of gross domestic product. In the next 10 years, I believe that, without a more severe rejection of the other development needs of the country, around 2.5% of the gross domestic product could be allocated for security, provided that the international security situation does not deteriorate significantly. In this case, if, what no one would want, if it were, emergency measures would be necessary. However, Slovenia will, I think it is right for the President of the Republic to say this on this occasion, with her foreign and security policy, to seek to resolve all issues, regional and international, globally on a peaceful path and to avoid any use of force to resolve disputes in the international community. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Slovenian army has about as long a tradition as our country has. The time and conditions in which the Slovenian Army was formed were different from those of today. It seems, however, that this is my very subjective assessment, but it seems that all this time, in various ways, in some way indirectly, the question arises directly, whether we really need the Slovenian Army. At the time of preparation for independence, both the thinking of demilitarised Slovenia on the one hand and the thinking of professional Slovenian troops on the other. In time, I think, there was some sort of separate mood that we needed an army, but there's no vitality for the country. This has led us to a situation where we have a professional army, but it is not ready to act in war situations. High choir! I would like to point out that, now because of our poor and good domestic experience, with the development and stagnation of our army, we must accept some lesson in this for our future actions. We need an army. It is vital for the defence and security of our independence. But the only thing that makes sense is if it's working. There can't be anything in this. If there is a long time in between, then it is only in the end that the cost of the state, but not an effective tool to defend it. That is why we need an army and need an updated Slovenian army. Every country, much richer than ours, must always economicise its public finances, act economically. Over and over again, every government, every call of the National Assembly, will deal with the question of how much to devote to the development and defence security needs of the country. It's nothing new. It's about questions about our existence and our development. Science, education, health, social security; all of these are areas of public interest that require expensive financial resources if we are to live in a country as our people deserve. And this is partly true for defence, but also on the basis of my experience, the good and the bad with these decisions, I would say that, however, defence, security in this sense is something special. The defence funds fell during the crisis, and this was reduced by three governments in a row: my first, next President Janša and President Bratuška. We have economicised with expenditure, we have estimated that other measures are more important in times of crisis, we have reduced funds for the military. The crisis has calmed down, Slovenia is recovering, and now it has the opportunity to fully, carefully assess how to go forward so that if the circumstances were to repeat themselves, they would be in such a situation. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Unfortunately, in recent years, the situation in the international community has also deteriorated during the cuts in defence spending. We share new security risks and, in the light of all this, we must find ourselves at some point when we need to think smartly about how we will set up a security system so that we and the citizens can fully rely on it. The whole range of other areas that the country is concerned about is such that a citizen can take care of himself in the last phase of the country. For security, it is different; it is almost entirely dependent on the state's actions, so the country has an irreplaceable role here to provide such conditions in the long term and, above all, for such a concept of security that will be suitable for it, compatible with our NATO membership and will respond to the key security challenges and risks it faces over the next 10, 15 years. Many comparable countries have a hazard assessment; we do not have one to be accepted by the Government or the National Assembly. I appreciate, for the sake of this debate, that we need it. The threat assessment will show which old and new risk factors are and will provide a good basis for us to take appropriate action on the basis of what we will assess as a source of threats to our country if we decide on the law or if you decide to take any other action. Personally at this point, but I'm not an expert, and I'm not called to do that, and I estimate that we are not in the classic sense of military danger. At this point — if there is no change — we are very exposed to a hybrid type of war or cyber attack in terms of equipment and protection; we are very few protected from this. In view of all this, I propose that the Government and later the National Assembly may for the first time, after independence, also accept the threat assessment and, in essence, lay the groundwork for the adoption of other measures, I hope, perhaps, the Law on Systemic Long-term Financing of National Security. Dear Mr. President, the High Council! At the time of independence, at the end of all the ends of this hall, we correctly assessed that we needed an army. There have been discussions, but in the end, most of them need to find that we need an army and have made the right decision. We also made the right decision 15 years ago to link our security to NATO's alliance Even then, there were different opinions, different opinions and yet we made the most right decision; Slovenia is today a country that has its military and provides security together with allies in the western part of the world in the NATO alliance. And today, perhaps after 15 years, we are again in a crucial time when I think we need some long-term, well-thought-out but ambitious decisions again. Before and before the next National Assembly, the question arises how with security – not only how with the military, the military is its military pillar, but how with security – will Slovenia continue to be, as it is, a secure state. The fact that Slovenia is considered a safe country creates some impression that there is no need to invest in security. This impression is harmful because it leads us to make wrong decisions so that no investment and updating of the complete security system is necessary. With everyone – not only the Slovenian state, all European countries, as you can see, also witnessing new decisions on joint defence efforts, not to mention the new strategic decisions concerning NATO, as far as I have had the opportunity to come to know on my last visit to NATO headquarters – preparing for the new situation in which we are going. And no one knows what's gonna happen, none of us. We can only guess, we can only use all our minds and experiences to anticipate and prepare ourselves so that none of us will regret that he may have left or overlooked something important, which is essential for the safety of all our citizens and citizens. As President of the Republic and Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces, I am prepared with the Government, with the National Assembly in this and other composition, with all the parliamentary parties in this and the next composition to participate in this important project. In the end, let me put it this way. Experience teaches us that we knew Slovenians about important issues — including security — to fight hard among ourselves, but in the end we were able to make the right decision and protect our safety in time. In the belief that we will also discuss and discuss this very important issue of how to ensure that Slovenia continues, as now a safe country, I recommend cooperation. Have a good day and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u3	I thank the President of the Republic, Mr Borut Pahor, for his words. In order to further explain the proposal, I would like to give the floor first to the representative of the proposalr, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, President. Dear fellow Members and Members, Minister, Commissioner General Alan Geder! In 2010, the week Mladina began with the petition "Cancel the Slovenian Army". And you could say that with this petition, the week drew up a defence policy. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u5	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u6	the parties that led the defence area under the left governments. [[…]] A consistent follow-up to this plan has led to the possibility that 14 days ago the responsible editor of Mladina Gregor Repovš said that we do not need Slovenia to be a small country that does not need an army. In short, a carefully drawn-up plan, which began in January 2010, confirmed that it was running successfully or that it was in its final phase. That's true, the numbers that are the most eloquent in themselves. Any strategic document adopted by the Government and later made known to it by the National Assembly or even confirmed it – here I am talking about the Resolution on the National Security Strategy, the Defence Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, the long-term plan for equipping and development of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2025, the Central Defence Programme of the Republic of Slovenia 2016-2020 – is one of the main emphasis on staff. Staff, who must be competent, quality, well trained, and, above all, as the defence strategy says, adequately numbered. And what are the personnel, which are adequately numerical, clearly mapped out the strategy for the long-term equipping and development of the Slovenian Army. We need 8,000 members of the professional team and 2,000 members of the contractual reserve. In short, this is the number needed to enable the Slovenian Armed Forces to carry out all the tasks assigned to the Defence Act. What is the situation today? Of the 8,000 soldiers, as far as they should have permanent compositions, on 1 March it is number 6 000 761. And of the 2,000 members of the contractual reserve, the number 956 is 1 March. At least as far as the reserve is concerned, we will soon see how many reserves we actually have; not only on paper, but what will be the response to the call made by the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces. And one of the reasons why the situation is like this is that it's more of a soldier's departure than a arrival. Under this government, the Slovenian Army's staff deficit increased by one battalion. About one troop of soldiers leaves the Slovenian Army annually – due to salaries, inadequate personnel policies, especially career policies, due to inadequate equipment, because there is no motivation because there is no desire to feel any desire to improve the situation and progress. And here I agree with the Commander-in-Chief of Defense. The army makes sense if it's working. Ladies and gentlemen, we haven't had an active army in four years. Whoever was accompanying General Alan Geder's press conference today at 12. could see what the real situation was. And as the general said, due to the human resources deficit and because of the fact that this human resources deficit is in a state like today - and I am talking about the salaries, benefits and other things that the soldiers have under the current legislation, in the legal, sub-law and other acts - it will not improve in the next two years, that means that the Slovenian Army will not be able to carry out its primary tasks. The primary task of the Slovenian Army, the one and only one for which the army is also established, we have it, we finance it, we need it, and it is the carrying out of an armed struggle in the event of an attack on the country; alone or together with the allies. And a particularly important part of the sentence is “together with the allies”. Slovenia is a member of the NATO Alliance. We are now joining or joining PESCO. And what is expected of us is to fulfill our commitments. We can't just expect benefits, we can't just expect benefits, and we wouldn't give anything for it. And here, of course, is a good opportunity for the populace to say, we're buying two middle battalion groups for NATO. No, it's not true, ladies and gentlemen. We are buying two medium-sized battalion fighting groups because the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, on the basis of professionally justified decisions, decided that we need two medium-sized battalion fighting groups for the national defence of the Republic of Slovenia. And a billion 200 for the 2nd Battalion Battle Group is the amount that Slovenia will give in ten years. Now, let's see what the Act on the Implementation of the Slovenian Armed Forces' Basic Development Programmes 2008-2015 adopted during the first Janšev government in 2006. “For the implementation of the basic development programmes in the years 2008 to 2015 referred to in the previous Article, the Republic of Slovenia will provide a total of up to €710 million in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia.” And then the next paragraph states that the volume should not exceed EUR 105 million per year. In short, what the President of the Republic of Slovenia presented today, Mr Borut Pahor, that we need a law that will determine the financing of national security, we can say more specifically, the Slovenian Armed Forces, we have already had in the past. And the president didn't find any hot water with what he said today. That's what I mentioned last year. And the minister also said that we would need a permanent source of funding. But we missed, unfortunately, never did she and the Ministry of Finance come with a law that would give words some validity in practice. And until we adopt such a law, it all makes no sense, for each government, of course, can create a defence policy in its own way. However, security and within it, the defence system is certainly a matter that we must agree that it is supra-party and that it is in the interests of each individual citizen. The train park is 60 percent complete. The units of the Slovenian Armed Forces are 60 % complete. The main equipment, one of the main equipment, we can talk about tanks, we can talk about helicopters – their life span runs out within two, three years. So not only do we have an army that doesn't work, but we don't see any signals that could make things better. What's the solution? Surely one of the solutions that should be done immediately is what we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party and in Novi Slovenija in the recommendation to the Government – to exempt the Slovenian Army from the single pay system. The Slovenian Army should not be subject to the same rules, the same laws as those applicable to public servants. We cannot impose on us the commanding officer of the regiment, the commander of the platoon, the commander of the platoon to ask the soldier not to enforce a law that allows him to stay home for a small child. We can't, ladies and gentlemen, because this makes the army ineffective. Commanders cannot and must not deal with such things. However, in order to deprive members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, as other citizens have, of certain rights, this needs to be financially replaced and we do not detect warm water in this area, but we propose doing what foreign countries do. And here I support the idea of General Geder, who said: "The soldier's salary should start with the average gross wage as it is in the Republic of Slovenia." This should be the starting point for today's debate to be our recommendations, the starting point for discussion should be the words spoken in his opinion by the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, and the starting points should be the words and concrete proposals made at today's press conference by the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, General Alan Geder.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u7	In order to further explain the proposal, I also give the floor to the representative of the proposalr, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u8	Mr President of the National Assembly, Madam Minister, Commissioner-in-Office of the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, dear colleague and colleague! We are all aware that the security of our country and its citizens is the highest on the scoreboard, but we are all obviously unaware that the country must take care of its national security in the first place with sufficient financial resources, proper staffing and a high moral awareness that we need the military for our safety and for the fulfilment of international commitments. Let us not forget that Slovenia is a member of NATO, to which it has entered on the basis of the citizens' referendum decision, and that it has to devote 2% of the gross domestic defence product by 2024, in accordance with its commitments. We have a very clear position on the Slovenian Army in Novi Slovenija. We know that without its own military capabilities, high technological equipment and without a highly trained military, Slovenia loses its own compared to the other Member States of the European Union. We are the only NATO Member State that has reduced the defence budget for this year by two hundred percentage points of gross domestic product, so this government has not reversed or halted the downward trend in the defence budget. Since we have been in a vicious circle for several years now, today's recommendations to the government are logical and self-sustaining. Unfortunately, only parts of the opposition have not been supported by members of the coalition at the home committee. Their only argument was that policy should solve these problems behind closed doors. You have power, colleagues and colleagues, close the door. But obviously interest is not for this kind of work, but interest should be, in view of the fact that the Government, in its opinion — interesting and attentive — attaches to our findings that we need comprehensive systemic solutions. In the same breath, he says that our solutions do not offer such solutions. Of course they are. Our proposals would in a very short time bring more interest in the profession of soldiers among young people, and the number of soldiers would increase. This would maintain a permanent professional composition and would also have a hybrid reserve consisting of a voluntary contractual reserve and a selective military obligation. The profession of soldiers is very difficult to compare with other professions in the public sector, since it is a very specific matter – from retirement age to psychophysical requirements, employment for a certain period of time. All of this affects the loss of interest in this profession. From this point of view, it is logical to exclude the Slovenian Army from the single wage system of the public sector as well as an increase of 30%. It sounds great, but such an increase in the basic gross salary of the 927 euro soldiers means only their survival and nothing else. It is also unacceptable that among the 6 000 826 members we have 16% of the officers, almost 30% of the officers and only 40% of the soldiers. We need at least an additional 700 regulars. Among professional armies, our oldest is also ours. The average age is about 40 years, while in other professional armies this figure is 10 years lower. The decline in budget resources for the Slovenian Army from 2010 to now for dramatic 40% can only be partly justified by the economic crisis, but we cannot understand that the current government of Mira Cerar, which is so boasting about economic growth, does not stop this negative trend more decisively, but with concrete measures that mean short-term solutions, although they are not entirely comprehensive. Today, the most important thing would be to provide sufficient resources, equip the soldiers with the best equipment that would last longer in the worst weather conditions, and ensure apolitical recruitment and advancement. All of this means an alarm for action and not just for the beautiful amendments to the Law on Service in the Slovenian Army and the Law on Defence, which our government does. We have done our duty with proposals for very concrete solutions, and it is the coalition's task to implement them. Together with this, we would show that our awareness of the importance of a highly trained army is our advantage and our great dot. I'm afraid he's over the power argument again and not the power of the argument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u9	The proposal for a recommendation is 28. 2. 2018 discussed by the Defence Committee. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Jean Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u10	Thank you, President. At its 61st urgent meeting, on 28 February, the Defence Committee considered the proposal for a recommendation by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the situation in the Slovenian Army and the request for an opinion by the President of the Republic of Slovenia on the matter submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank. In his supplementary explanation, the president of the Committee, Jean Mahnic, pointed out that the Slovenian Armed Forces had been in line for the fourth year in a row at the lowest level of operational capacity, which is worrying. As a result of this situation, the proposers proposed an extraordinary meeting where they propose three concrete recommendations on how to improve the situation in the Slovenian Army. From 2010 until now, this has lost more than 40% of the funding. The consequences of the budget cuts are: lower skill, technological backlog, low maintenance, obsolete protective equipment and also rolling stock. He pointed out that, due to the situation in the Slovenian Army, proponents recommend that the Slovenian Army should be exempted from the single payroll system, that the salary should be raised by 30% and that the Slovenian Armed Forces should be reorganised in order to maintain a permanent professional composition and that the reserve should be modified in a manner that creates a hybrid reserve consisting of a voluntary contractual reserve and a selective military obligation. The representative of the President of the Republic of Uroš Krek strongly and directly rejected the constant demonstration and the refoulement of guilt for the situation in the Slovenian Army against the President of the Republic of that time and said that he also presented some specific information on the expenditure for the Slovenian Army in the budgets from 2009 to the end of 2013. Minister of Defence Andrej Katič pointed out that the defence sector was carrying one of the biggest burdens of the economic crisis between 2010 and 2015, with defence spending falling by 40 per cent, which also had an impact on the development of the planned capabilities of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the implementation of the commitments made in NATO and the ability to carry out the statutory tasks of the Slovenian Army. In this mandate, the Government, as one of the key measures in the area of state defence, managed to halt the trend of reducing the defence budget and gradually increase it; the government decided, at the conclusion of the strategic defence review, that the defence budget should be increased by at least EUR 30 million per year. The increase in the defence budget has already been partially implemented under the 2017 budget, and this will be taken into account even more by the 2018 and 2019 budgets. This will also enable the Slovenian Armed Forces to establish priority capacities, first for national needs, as well as the capacities agreed within the framework of the Alliance. In the debate, opposition Members pointed out that the Slovenian Armed Forces had been one of the most trusted institutions for a long time, and in the measurements of the Slovenian public opinion in the last few years, it has been declining intensely on this scale. One of the things that's happening is the situation in the military. But the other thing that worries soldiers is the sense of hopelessness, that it's all going down and there's no solution. All of this is largely due to the fact that in the past almost half of the resources have been taken away from the Defence Department. The withdrawal of funds meant poorer equipment, poorer training, inability to progress and the inability to introduce new techniques. They expressed the view that the military has brought the entire political apparatus into the current situation from 2008 until now and that the current minister is the most responsible for the change in the situation. Members of the coalition drew attention to the consensus needed in politics to achieve an acceptable level of the Slovenian Army. They recalled the opinion of the former and current chief that it was important to discuss the issue behind closed doors in order to preserve the credibility of the Slovenian Army. They also expressed the view that the Slovenian Armed Forces also received the highest criticism on the basis of non-objective reporting. The Committee then voted on all points of the proposal together and did not adopt them, and therefore, on the basis of the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second paragraph of Article 61 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of 9 December 2009, the Chairman of the Committee found that the Proposal for a Recommendation by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the situation in the Slovenian Army and the requirements for the opinion of the President of the Republic on the matter on the home working body had been completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u11	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister of Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u12	Your Honor! Over the past two, three years, the strategic security environment has changed. In 2015, in the year of my mandate, Slovenia, together with the other Central European Member States, faced a major migration crisis. Last December, 24 Member States joined PESCO, i.e. permanent structural cooperation, including Slovenia, to strengthen European security and defence policy. Slovenia is also building its national security and defence capabilities within the framework of collective security as a member of NATO and the EU. In the future, in addition to conventional forms of threat – such as terrorism, hybrid activity, organised crime – climate change, natural and other strategic resources, unfavourable demographic, financial, economic and social movements, deepening the differences between the rich and the poor in the world will also have an impact on changing the international security environment. Why am I stressing this situation? Because the defence system of the Republic of Slovenia is part of the national security system and that security threat will be required, they are in fact already demanding a rapid, decisive and, above all, coordinated response of all actors within the entire national security system. Both the defence system and the Slovenian Armed Forces within it were not in an enviable position at the time of this government's appearance. Multi-annual non-critical cuts in financial resources, lack of investment in basic equipment, maintenance of available technology, reduced training, non-critical savings in salaries and the rights of soldiers were only some of the consequences we have faced and are still visible today. According to 2010 the Ministry lost more than 40% of its funding, which is nominally more than a billion euros. There was no specific law implementing the Slovenian Armed Forces' core development programmes in 2008-2015, which allowed the provision of EUR 710 million during this period. Only $121.8 million was realized. Unlike the applicants for such a situation, I would not like to blame an individual minister or government in the past. The question is, however, whether the austerity measures in the defence system were proportionate to measures in other areas and whether we did not go to a reduction in funding across the limits. The situation must have dictated such measures, as is the case today with the gradual growth of defence expenditure. We must agree, however, that this deficit — one billion — is difficult to make up for in the course of two or three years, when the crisis is a relief when we have great economic growth and its effects are not yet felt by all people and all the resources. We have talked several times about the situation in the Slovenian Army and the measures we are taking in the defence sector. I'd like to point out three of the most crucial circuits. Firstly, in 2016 we carried out the Strategic Review of Defence. Secondly, the government stopped the trend of reducing the defence budget and ensured a gradual increase. Thirdly, the Government proposed a renewed defence legislation in September last year for adoption by the National Assembly. My ambition has been, and I have also repeatedly presented that the strategic review is being done for the entire national security system, so that we can propose more comprehensive and balanced measures between the subsystems. A coordinated operation, the cooperation of all three subsystems of national security, is urgently needed to deal effectively with modern challenges. Therefore, as a reckless measure, I assess the intervention in only one of the subsystems, such as the exemption of only employees in the Slovenian public sector, but not employees, for example, in the police and other rescue systems. Unfortunately, the objective circumstances related in particular to the migration crisis were not favourable to the proposal. In December 2016, the Government addressed the Strategic Review of Defence and adopted the relevant conclusions. These relate to, for the first time, the increase in defence expenditure, the modernisation of the Slovenian Army and investment in personnel, secondly, the renovation of normative bases and strategic documents, and thirdly, the development of quality leadership in the Slovenian Army. Firstly, the government has already concluded that the defence budget must be increased annually for an additional EUR 30 million. This will enable the Slovenian Armed Forces to establish priority capacities, first for national needs, as well as the capacities agreed within the framework of the Alliance. If I touch wages in the Slovenian Army. The lowest mass was €200 million in 2015. In 2017, it reached EUR 222 million, which undoubtedly means that wages did not stagnate during this period. We have also settled past obligations, such as compensation for unallocated hours and unused mission leave of €9.5 million and payment of €369 thousand 117 overtime of € 4.6 million. Over the past three years, almost €21 million has been dedicated to providing basic equipment such as purchase of uniforms, protective equipment for soldiers, thus gradually eliminating the critical situation in this area. At the same time, I am particularly saddened by the fact that we have witnessed scenes that have appeared in public in the event of a verification by the battalion fighting group at Poček. I believe that the entire command line in the Slovenian Army must do more to ensure that there is no irresponsible attitude towards equipping soldiers with basic equipment in the future. In the case of damaged equipment, its replacement should be ensured. However, the government's expectations are that increased funding will gradually have to be reflected in the better readiness of the Slovenian Army. The larger investment cycle is also starting in 2018. The Government has adopted a decision to initiate procedures for Slovenia's accession to the international organisation of mutual cooperation in the field of arms of the OCCAR, the primary purpose of which is to manage military programmes and equipment throughout the life cycle. For the construction project of the Central Battalion Battle Group is an interesting programme of the BOXER, where Germany, the Netherlands and Lithuania are already involved. In this way, Slovenia will also fulfil several commitments to cooperate within the framework of the European Union's continued structural cooperation in the field of defence. Prices are fixed and equal for all Member States and do not deviate substantially from the prices of other producers. Therefore, corruption risks are being eliminated and membership in the OCCAR is also an opportunity for the Slovenian economy. Under another area, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepared a package of revised legislation and sent it to the National Assembly. The purpose of the new Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army is to update the defence system, allow for changes in the organisation and mode of action, and enable the development of the army to continue within the collective defence system. As one of the most important objectives, the Government has pursued an increase in the interest in military employment, a better regulation of the status of members and an improvement of their social status, for which systematic measures are proposed. It is also essential to upgrade the rights of members after the age of 45. Let me also mention that the Ministry of Defence was the carrier of the government strategic project Crisis Management and Management, which we have successfully concluded that the National Assembly has adopted the Critical Infrastructure Act. In line with the planned strategic review measures, we have also prepared a review of other strategic documents. The Government took note of information on the review of the Resolution on the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia. The medium-term defence programme 2018-2023 is ready, we are still waiting for the spring forecast of Umarje and the updated higher projection of defence expenditure. A proposal for amendments to the Defence Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia and to the Resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2025, which, due to the fact that we are still waiting for the adoption of both new laws, has not yet been put into procedure. And thirdly, as far as improving leadership is concerned, the Slovenian Army will have to do the most alone. I would, however, like to point out that the decline in morale and the rise in the apathy of the members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, mentioned by you, is also undoubtedly due to the constant problem of some of the procedures in the past, with which the applicants are also manipulated in this case into material. With names and surnames, you point out individual commanders, politically assess their suitability and expertise, and thereby promote unnecessary division in the Slovenian Army. If there were any reasons why some could not join the then Territorial Defence in 1991, then the then Minister of Defence had every opportunity to prevent this and not conclude employment contracts. After more than 25 years of successful careers in the Slovenian Army, when they have built their careers under all the ministers so far, these individuals are now being labeled and questioned about their abilities. The expertise, belonging and commitment of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces are the criteria that I advocate, and certainly not such or other political suitability. Let me briefly touch on the recommendations that you have proposed and are rejected by the Government. The exemption of the Slovenian Army from the salary system of public servants and the suspension of the salaries of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces are undoubtedly very populism proposals which any Minister of Defence would be pleased to make if such proposals were realistic and acceptable in all respects. One of the key reasons for the delay in the drafting of both laws concerns precisely the opposition to some of the solutions that we have proposed to improve the situation of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces by other professional groups in the public sector. The implementation of your recommendations would have a demonstration effect on other professional groups and would probably result in a breakdown of the single public sector wage system. Taking into account the proposed reports – as explicitly stated by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly – is only possible by law, which is impossible from a time-consuming point of view in this mandate and, according to our assessment, would require the amendment of at least the Law on Defence, the Law on Service in the Slovenian Army, the Law on Military Duty, the Law on Public Servants, the Law on the System of Salaries in the Public Sector and probably any other law. And let us not forget that they should be aligned with all other professional groups. It is also possible to change the composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces not only by implementing the reorganisation, but first and foremost by amending the legislation. In the framework of the proposals for both laws, we have already proposed additional options for the so-called increase of forces, for voluntary training of citizens, as well as for the possibility of reintroducing individual elements of military duty. Of course, as Minister, I would immediately welcome an intervention increase in the salaries of all employees in the Slovenian Army. The proposed measures taken by the Government through both laws are designed in a way that neither destroys the single pay system nor interferes with the hierarchical system in the military. With departures and reduced entry we meet both in the Slovenian Army and in the Slovenian police, and the proposed measures of the Government are targeted at those groups in the Slovenian Army where the shortage of personnel is the largest, namely soldiers and groups with fixed-term contracts. In doing so, it would be a financial impact for the lowest-paid soldiers – if I look at Private II – at a comparable level as proposed in the recommendation, that is about EUR 3,000 per year. With regard to wage increases, I would also point out that the negotiations with the unions on the further abolition of wage anomalies and austerity measures introduced with Zujf are ongoing. Your Honor! In the Ministry we have prepared a revised defence legislation through which we have proposed solutions that would improve the situation in the Slovenian Army. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like once again to urge you to ensure that both laws are dealt with as quickly as possible, and once again I invite you to try to make further improvements with constructive proposals, as they can be accepted within the mandate of this Assembly. I believe that this is how we will first take that first step for the Slovenian Army, to improve its position, to improve the social status of members and members of the Slovenian Army. I also find it inappropriate to call on the Defence Committee to vote for or against recommendations. I trust General Geder, and I also expect him to contribute with his experience and dedication to the improvement of the situation and to propose appropriate real solutions. I also expect that the new commander, with the personal example and example of subordinate commanders, will raise the leadership to the level that the military expects and deserves. Of course, there remains a normative and financial framework in which we all move together. And as the President of the Republic said in the introduction, there is no need to put such a dilemma on him and the Slovenian Army under additional political pressure. Once again, honourable Members and Members, please support the proposals of both laws and let us do something together for the Slovenian Army in this mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u13	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens and citizens, respected President of the Republic, respected veterans and veterans of the war for Slovenia, respected comrades of war in the victorious war for Slovenia in 1991! Today, before, we can say, a session where we will discuss, speak, perhaps seal the fate of one of our country's most important systems. The system that allowed us in the battlefield of the Slovenian state, the system that we call the Slovenian Army today, which won against the 4th strongest armies in Europe, the system where David defeated Goliath and the system which, during the most fateful days of the creation of the Slovenian state in 1990, had to reorganise the Territorial Defence and from the continuity with the previous regime to prepare discontinuity and put this system on new foundations. The importance or, we can say, the pragmatism of the then authority – we are talking about Demos, we are also talking about the Ministry of Defence, then the Republic Secretariat for Defence – meant a great reunion of all patriots in Slovenia, of all the Slovenia and abroad, of all the resources and of all the good people who have carried the centuries of Slovenia in their hearts, that it is now a fate – whether we will also win in the battlefield, or whether we will win with new forces, by pooling into this new force that has emerged, this Slovenian army, or we will do so. That's when we did it. Everyone else is history. And the Slovenske army therefore began to be joined together, and to be joined together, and to be divided into ours and yours. Regardless of political affiliation, it was not first- and second-class, but we were all first-class and all of us fought for the greatest, first-class goal of Slovenia, that was the Slovenian state. The Slovenian army has experienced in its operations over the last two decades of creation, operation, integration – that is, with regard to NATO – many periods under many ministers; many smaller falls, rises. And what the Minister has also said today, and the chief General Staff will most likely be – that is a 40% reduction. So, Slovenian soldiers, officers and subordinates, including military personnel and also civilians in the Slovenian Army, who are often ignored by you, are those who were the least guilty of this crisis. They were always professional. In the Slovenian Army, we did not have any accidents at home or in foreign missions. So far, the Slovenian Army, we can say, has also emerged from foreign missions without a death victim, which ensures that this Slovenian army has acted extremely professionally and knowingly. Unfortunately, I spent 14 years in this system as a former member. [[…]] In 1991, I had the privilege, I can say, of serving in the first generation of Beijing. I've had a hell of a time, I've had a war on Slovenia, I've had an attack on cluster bombs, and I've been hurt worse in this war. I also experienced as a member of the first company, that we let go of the former flag, when we thought we had left the totalitarian regime forever, and when we raised the new symbol of Slovenia, the new Slovenian flag. It was this privilege for which I am always grateful. And as I said on Twitter today: “I do not want to be someone who had the privilege of serving, to witness this great victory and as a politician seal the fate of one of the most important systems of our country, this is the Slovenian Army.” In my opinion and in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Slovenian Armed Forces have experienced two threats in recent periods. The first threat is the threat after 2009. This is a budgetary threat to this system and to the subsystem. 40% reduction in funding, a fall in the financing of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the most crucial years, when it should also modernise its fighting power, its competence when it should analyse the new dangers that are coming, and with these dangers also with new means, it meant, we can say, one big fiasco. So the system, which is one of the most important, has experienced, we could say, the biggest fall. The second problem is falling below 1% of GDP funding — at least in relation to NATO — and, above all, under this 1% or less than 1%, on average, 20% of financing in this development budget was for the modernisation of fighting funds, which meant that we have 0.66% of funding, i.e. for the development of these funds. So this is this big problem of this so-called budgetary threat to our country's important system. However, the second system, which has experienced the continued threat since 1994 and lasts until now and has experienced the greatest threat right under Minister Katičeva and during the reign of the SD, is so-called, we can say, the revaluation of the basic elements, the basic value centre of this institution. The Slovenian Army has its value centre in Slovenia's newly created state, in association, in the values of Slovenian independence, in association with the greatest aims of Slovenia. It wasn't like I said today, first and second grade, it wasn't left and right. We were just the ones who saw this Slovenian army and Slovenian country as their own private option and they were the ones who never wanted it. Those who resented that we had stolen from them a country that began its path in mass violations of human rights, in mass crimes, in mass massacres, and ended in 1995 in a mass genocide in Srebrenica. This is the country where the winners said they were winners and behind them was 620 mass graves in Slovenia. The Slovenian army wasn't like that. She was a victorious army. It was an army that had the tactics of having the lowest level of victims, both civilian and military, for the greatest purpose of Slovenia, i.e. the establishment of a Slovenian state. And we didn't lose a piece of Slovenian land with this army. With this army we have never avenged those who opposed Slovenia's independence, the constitution of the Slovenian state and its creation. There are no 620 mass graves left behind. Unfortunately, we are experiencing, we can say, the internal breakdown of basic cohesive ties between officers, officers and soldiers, i.e. people who must have 100% confidence in an important system. This is the only system in our country, where superiors lead their unit to death, for some of the higher national interests, for the survival of a nation. And you can't compare this system to any of our country's systems and subsystems. This is why we have held this meeting today, because we are aware of this exodus of the most capable personnel of the Slovenian Army and that these places will no longer be staffed; whether they will not be or will come from people with different values with different objectives. And this second decomposition, I think, is even more important. The financing of this system may be remedied in the coming years if there is some major economic growth - I hope this happens to us - but the destruction of these cohesive tissues among officers, officers, soldiers, and military personnel is just terrible. As a former member of the Defence Committee, we have explained to you many times what the tasks of Slovenian soldiers, officers and subordinates are. Let me state this for citizens and citizens. For a Slovenian officer, each member must complete a minimum of higher education, be fit for physical, psychological, military intelligence service to check his security risk for this system, after entering must complete a successful military training, a so-called officer school lasting at least one year, and with this school can continue somewhere to the captain's career path, before the lieutenant. For the rank of captain, he must complete his headquarters education, for the rank of Major, a higher headquarters course; for the rank of Major, he must already meet the conditions of the second Bologna level or so-called senior university education, and to this level a Slovenian officer may advance to the rank of Lieutenant Colonel. The colonel's role requires general staff education, either at home or abroad; most of the time Slovenian officers and current generals have completed such education abroad. In recent years, we have also introduced a so-called subroutine line, modelled on the Western Republic of Germany, as we once said. So, we've initiated eight subroutines. We have established the rank of Sergeant, Senior Sergeant, Staff Sergeant, Senior Staff Sergeant, Ensign, Senior Ensign and Staff Sergeant. So it's also an important backbone of the Slovenian Army, as we call it, the so-called subroutine line. And we brought in three army forces: the captain, the captain, and the chief captain. So, we've developed career paths. But if you'll excuse me, can you list the profession in which you are in mortal danger, in which you have a job for a certain period of five or ten years in which you need to be physically and mentally prepared every day, a profession in which you handle weapons, a profession in which you are at abnormal safety risks both at home and abroad, a profession where you are in abnormal also meteorological conditions where you also work at minus 30, minus 25 degrees and where you work at Počku sometimes at plus 45 degrees Celsius? I don't know this profession in Slovenia, I don't even know it abroad, and they're unique and only in the military, in all armies; not only in Slovenia, but elsewhere. So at the time of this, we can say that economic growth in the Slovenian Democratic Party as the proponents we are aware of this. We are aware that if this system falls, if we do not get these personnel back, our respectable colleagues and colleagues, we will no longer establish this system. Today, we give a sign to all members, members, including those who might ever choose to work in the Slovenian Army or for their career path. But we people respect you? Can we compare one Slovenian soldier to another, I can say, – and all my respect – to classical workers in public administration or state administration? I do not think that this is such a specific profession and it is also about non-competitiveness in the labour market, as President Pahor also said. He knows that, too. And the government and the minister of this government, speaking mainly to the point of not being able to find money for Slovenian soldiers – we are speaking of course only about 30% of the salary increase, the same government, which has hired 8 000 300 people in the public sector in the past year and half and the Ministry of Public Administration has increased in the public sector during the 4th Industrial Revolution by 94% – this government has found money for all of this, for the most important pillar of the Slovenian state, which is the national security pillar and part of it is also the Slovenian Army, and it does not find this money, so it wants to die. And I can repeat those words that Mr Janša once also said: "Unfortunately, the Slovenian state has been managed by those who have least desired it at the beginning." Tell me, how does someone raise a child that's not his who's in the breed? He usually raises his child’s mother with some special care, wonderful love, with a wonderful relationship. And today and in recent years, the Slovenian Army has also been given into the hands of those who never wanted it. When I said at the beginning, it began with Depala Village, beginning with the criminalization of the Minister of War, Mr Janša, the first among the first, Mr Krković, my former army commander, the man who set up, we can say, the Slovenian armed forces, which in the shortest period of time, Our Lady Minister, Mr Krković and Mr Janša were completely remodeled in the time of the war, and, I can say, new foundations were laid by the complete system of the Slovenian army and prepared it for military action; in the shortest period of time, we are talking about a few months when the complete opposition was then – i.e., I say, the proliferated left – literally settled to the end. [[…]] To continue this path of this destruction of the values or fundamental values of the Slovenian Army. So it continued to criminalize those, I say, who were, officers and officers. At the time I'm here as an MP, the Secretary of Defense became someone who never wanted this army. Slovenian soldiers today must be ashamed to stand guard before the monument of one of the greatest war murderers, the postwar murderers Ivan Cat Matija. Do you carry a picture into the world? [[…]] Aren't you ashamed? During the time of the Minister, you, Minister, attacked Mr Janša, why he then signed that those who entered the Slovenian Army could also come to the Slovenian Army after the date we spoke about. [[…]] You know what happened? I can tell you. After the war, we dealt mercifully with all these factors, believed that they were overlooked, and that they would also give up their basic doctrine. We never condemned a lot of people who also served in JLA and the officers who came to the Slovenian side at that time. I have many respects; many of my colleagues were JLA officers, they came at the right time and over, we can say, they fought against their colleagues for a few weeks. Thank you very much. And never were these divisions, but these divisions began when the criminalization of many began — not only those that I counted, but also many officers and officers who were involved in the war for Slovenia. That is to say, under your rule, two members of the so-called expert on the tactical operation of Mr. Popov or Colonel Popov in Radgona, where two civilian victims died, where there was greater material damage where they worked, fought on a sacral facility where Red Cross vehicles were used to transport military technology and soldiers to the very battlefield to Gorno Radgon and that these two soldiers who were mercifully employed in the Slovenian Army – today a senior military officer, another officer of this army – were working past you, Madam Minister, and that after they were in the so-called disciplinary procedure, the disciplinary commission was again led by someone who was led by us by the military, and then received a warning; a reminder of how he fell, we can say, by the purest element of some sort of misdemeanor, who were once again under the command of the police, said that they had been hired in the Slovenian military service, and then, and then a reminder of how he fell. Look, my colleagues, we also fought when we had the lowest wages when Mr. Pahor reduced our salary, we can say, during the night when the funding was down, when there were no extras, no overtime, with torn uniforms, with boots that were even worse than the soldiers today, and we still had that honor. But also 2010, you know, before I left, when they gave us orders that we should start with our uniforms the signs “1”, the first generation, the first officers and the officers we were in the war for Slovenia, the signs “Veteron of war for Slovenia”, then, forgive me, it seemed to me that the end of my operation in this institution was that this institution was also completely taken over by people who never wanted these countries and these armies. What you are doing today to tell the entire Slovenian public that you have a solution, let us tell you and tell you who set up this system, those who have worked in this system for many years, those who have also been decorated with wider recognition. [[…]] And if anyone knows, then I think we know something about this subject, Madam Secretary. And one more thing. We don't have to report it. We've worked with you all the time in gloves, Madam Secretary-General. We used to work with you in gloves all the time. Even because you're a woman, we had a special, I can say, one special concern for you. But if you look at your colleague from the Ministry of the Interior what she has done for Slovenian police officers – I think even colleague Gorenak admits to her as a great expert in this field and even an extraordinary professor – then I tell you that you are under this government, we can say, second-class minister. That is not what we have told you, but your colleagues have told you by how much of this money they have dedicated to you and to the institution you represent. That's exactly what it is. Here's our concern that we will permanently destroy this system. And now, look, it's a crisis period. The crisis is because when the Slovenian Army leaves those important officers or retires, we will no longer have a better, superior staff in this system. Three years from now, it won't help us. I don't know what kind of funding. Today, this system needs a sign and the sign is that even if it is not now adopted, in the coming months — under the current or subsequent government — this system will be exempted from the system of public servants because it is such a specific system that it is not a couple in the country itself and its systems and subsystems. Dear Minister, this is one part of my debate, one part of our view of the functioning of this important system and subsystem. I believe that today's debate will mainly take place in the realization that we have won the Slovenian Army in the battlefield and that we do not want the Slovenian Army to fail here in this temple of democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u15	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr. Franc Jurša has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, Members and Members and, of course, all the rest of you who are in this Chamber! Today we actually had to decide to come to this Chamber and discuss the recommendations made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the situation in the Slovenian Army and the request for the opinion of the President of the Republic on this issue. We talked about this request a few hours earlier, it is two days, but today we are talking about the issue of the Slovenian Army. Well, some of these issues also include some other issues that are historically related to the creation of the Slovenian Army, which I understand in some ways, as at the end of the stage man, when he is born, grows and grows. In view of the debate on last week's parental committee, it could even be wrong to conclude that it is the intervention of the Minister of Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič, or at least to face up to any kind of broadcast just before the elections. Perhaps the debate on the majority part of the opposition will go this way today. Somehow this has already been announced by the presentation of the Group's position. I hope I made a mistake. However, let us keep in mind the warning given by Mr Alan Geder, Chief General of the Slovenian Army, and rather refrain from such a public debate, as this destroys only the name of the Slovenian Army. Today we are dealing with a complex issue in this Chamber. The President of the Republic has adopted a negative assessment of the state of readiness of the military for hostilities for the third consecutive year. The Slovenian army must make up for a large deficit in the past years, when much was being saved. We are probably all aware that Morse suffered the greatest damage in the period 2010-2015 when the budget was adopted annually, as the funds have decreased by as much as 40% over the years. This, of course, had a negative impact on all elements of the defence and protection system. It was not until 2016 that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia managed to stop the downward trend in defence expenditure according to the share of gross social product which increased for the first time in 2016 after 6 years. This indicates the government's conscious decision to strengthen security in our country. We are aware that we need the Slovenian Army, because one of the fundamental values of our citizens is in security and, of course, without the safety of other elements, we cannot realize. In the Desus Group we understand the hardship of employees in the Slovenian Army and in defence as a whole. It is urgent to regulate the status of the military and the emergency situation in the Slovenian Army. It should be noted that the proposed Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army were absolutely too late to arrive at the National Assembly. Where and why it stopped, I will not stress. If the proposal were adopted, the situation of soldiers would also improve. We also know that he was standing in the National Assembly and for what and who actually influenced his standing in the National Assembly. However, it is not the policy that is to blame for the negative assessment of the battalion fighting group in Pocko, according to my opinion. She could also have given a certain supplement to this. It must be clarified that the Minister of Defence is leading the military as a politician and that the Chief of Staff is in charge of this army. In the Slovenian Army, we have a hierarchy, and everyone who runs the unit is responsible, let it be a platoon and the troops are up. The recommendations proposed by the Members of the SDS Group and the New Slovenia Group of Members seem reckless. In the Desus Group, we feel that things need to be resolved systematically, not individually, so we will not support the recommendations. However, I would like to point out one more part, which was also discussed by the President of the Republic or the Commander-in-Chief of the Slovenian Armed Forces – that the financing of the security system as a whole should be addressed through system law. Personally, I fully agree with this matter, but of course I must also ask about this party as well as our party's Group of Members. I hope that the parliamentary group and the party will follow my beliefs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u17	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which it is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u18	Dear Members, Members, good afternoon! The purpose of today's meeting is not to find the culprit, but it is crucial that we establish a political consensus that we need the Slovenian Army and that we are ready to provide the necessary funds for the Slovenian Army. In peace, surely every cent — at least it seems — that we are dedicating to an army, an extra cent, but when this peace is gone, no quick reaction can help to build up defence capabilities and establish a satisfactory defense. In Nova Slovenija we are convinced that Slovenia needs an army. The Slovenian army is needed. We are also convinced that our security within the NATO Alliance is cheaper than outside the alliance. However, we want Slovenia to develop a modern army, an army that will be trained to defend the country in the event of a threat, which will be able to help ensure peace abroad and which can help citizens in the event of natural disasters quickly and effectively. Of course, for the modern army we want, we need people and we need money. Unfortunately, we don't have any of this today. The army is understaffed; even more, the army is leaving more and more people. And the army doesn't have enough money. For thousands of times, it has been said that the defence department has paid the highest price in the past crisis. None of the other sources have practically lost half of the funds, the defence department is. The defence budget is halved and if you have half the resources, it is clear that if you do not want to forgive people, then you will first exceptionally reduce the funds for technology, training and also for investments and potential innovation. Until now, the Slovenian Army has long acted on the moral drive, if you will, on the domestic drive. It won't work forever. If you talk to Slovenian Armed Forces today – perhaps we have members of the Defence Committee this happiness that we have more meetings, more possibilities of contact with soldiers – they can tell you that it has had to be extremely low, that there is apathy in the military and that there are numerous interaccounts in the military. It is certainly not the fault that we are dealing with these problems in Parliament, but, of course, it is the result that when you do not employ the army to properly train yourself to do what needs to be done, it begins to work with itself. And that's exactly where we are today. Therefore, we are obliged to act immediately and the first of the things we are obliged to do is to raise the defence budget, reorganise the Slovenian Army and, above all, the soldiers exempt from the single pay system. I am aware that this may be a severe shock, but we cannot expect significantly different results from what we have today, if we do things the same way; Einstein has long discovered that. And we all find that the military profession is extremely special, but we do not recognize these specifics in the legislation. And the pressure of a military profession into a single pay system I think has not only proved itself in these 10 years, but it has proved to be inappropriate and precisely because of the specificity of the military profession, it has to be excluded from the single pay system because it has so many specifics that it is simply impossible to compare pears with apples. However, we are aware of all the consequences that this can also trigger any other requirements and initiatives. That's what he's holding. However, it is certainly known that, from the point of view of governance, it is certainly easier to have a single pay system, that the exclusion of individual groups from the single pay system means more negotiation, more discussion, more difficult task, but at the same time, each government allows greater flexibility to ensure that each group has the right conditions. As soldiers continue to be pressured into a single pay system, this in the long run means the collapse of the Slovenian Army. Because in particular, if – God forbid this will happen – this economic conjuncture would continue and wages in the real sector will improve significantly, then very few people will remain, those who have a real sense of home and who are represented by a military profession will remain in the military and thank God that we have them. But surely all those who take the military as a good opportunity for personal growth will be for new challenges, for new opportunities and perhaps even for social security, and all of them will leave the Slovenian Army as soon as possible under such conditions. So when we talk about whether to keep soldiers in a single pay system or not, we are also talking about the future of the military. Because if today someone else is faking that it is possible to establish a modern and effective army within this single wage system, he is simply lying to himself or blinding himself with evident facts. It is certainly true that the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army are important, but they are not crucial. We can have the best legislative framework, but if this legislative framework does not have adequate financial support, then all that is written in these two laws is a dead letter on paper. That is why I think it is more important than the adoption of the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army to raise the defence budget. At the last reading of the 2018 budget balance, our Group has just proposed an amendment to provide the defence budget with almost €70 million more. And it is sad that in that debate all of us insisted that the defence budget needed more resources to earn more money, but when the time came for the vote, unfortunately, as ever before, the coalition was numbed by its fingers. Therefore, the essence of today's extraordinary session is to reach some political consensus in order to politically commit ourselves to raising the defence budget to 1.2% of GDP by 2020; this would be a concrete, good profit from today's extraordinary session. I do not pretend that the current minister or current government coalition in these two, three months remaining will do anything great. Unfortunately, the time was running out, perhaps the first two years were lost, and the government was too busy with itself positioning and setting up a team at the time; these were the diseases of the emerging customers. But we are where we are. I am not pretending that in these three months things will change and that they will be pink, but they would do a great deal for the future of the Slovenian Army, and for the future of Slovenia, if today we will politically commit ourselves to raising the defence budget to 1.2% of GDP by 2020. We will still be far from what the Alliance has recommended. We will still be far from where there are many comparable countries. At least we will take a more decisive step forward than we are doing today. If we want to build on our credibility, sometimes we need to listen to what the allies tell us if you want, friends. And Secretary-General Nate said that although Slovenia is moving in the right direction, it means that the fall in these defence expenditures has been reduced, but these steps are too slow. And that's what I think we don't like to hear in Slovenia what we don't like or what we don't like. And the emphasis was that these steps were too slow. And that's why I don't blame anyone in this room who's more guilty, who's less guilty of the current situation. However, I am sure that we are all responsible in this Chamber for establishing better conditions for the Slovenian Army. And the first step forward will be the political commitment to raise the defence budget. I would like to see a coalition move forward in this direction. We in Novi Slovenija will undoubtedly do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u19	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! This time the reason for the treatment of the situation in the Slovenian Army coincides with the verification of the capacity of the battalion fighting group by the method of NATO, named CREVAL. This took place in mid-February. However, the verification decision was taken at the very top of the Slovenian Army, although a negative assessment was expected. The media reported that the battalion fighting group was incapable of taking serious action and informed us that the soldiers were not even adequately equipped. However, some claims were later found to be unrealistic. And if a negative assessment was expected, then we can ask ourselves the question of the purpose of the decision to verify the situation in the Slovenian Army. We believe that it is and remains unacceptable that political attacks against the Minister in public expose and use soldiers for the purpose of political accounting. This, Your Honor, is a worrying maneuver. This degradation has crossed all the limits of permissiveness, and if our army really wants it, we should not afford it. Today would be a time to take responsibility and propose short-term political interests and put the Slovenian Army's interests at the forefront. However, in order to be able to carry out an effective and, above all, reasoned debate, we need to place the content in an appropriate time frame when the overblown bubble of economic power broke down in 2008 and left the destruction behind. Even the Slovenian Army could not avoid this. This one paid a large, perhaps even the biggest account of the crisis. If we speak the number language, the defence expenditure from 2010 to 2015 has decreased from 583 million to 369 million euros. This is a huge, almost 40% drop. And this is difficult to cover in a few years, and even less so is expected that this huge hole in the defence budget, despite high economic growth, will be patched up overnight — from today to tomorrow. The perceptions by the proponents also often refer to the lack of soldiers and soldiers in the Slovenian Army, with great concern for the level of their salaries. Let us recall, however, that after years of coordination with the unions, a single public sector payroll system has been established, supported by colleagues from the SDS. They thought or thought: “The proposed solution to the public sector wage system is very similar to the solutions in other comparable countries in which public sector wages have been so regulated for more than ten years. Similarly, comprehensively managed systems in other countries have shown good results and are also adequately effective and have also proved that comprehensive solutions are only possible." That's what you said. When this single salary system was established, it was promised that no one would get less, and that was not the case. Some got less. Anomalies and mistranslations have been identified. At the time of the threats by the European Troika – even more so by calling the Troika to Slovenia – these anomalies were unfortunately not possible. Zujf was radically engaged in wages and other social incomes, including the harm of soldiers and soldiers. And now that trade unions and the government are negotiating how to transfer part of economic growth to the payrolls of public servants, including soldiers, the proposals for the exemption of the Slovenian Army from the single payroll system by those who have so strongly defended the single pay system are mildly inappropriate. Even more; the proposals for a 30% increase or increase in wages sound good, but the unrealistic and exploitation of military and all soldiers and soldiers with such demagogies is nothing less than cheap populism. We believe that the members of the Slovenian Army have proven themselves to be on many tasks, both at home and abroad, and we are convinced that they are proud of their work. They can be proud. We are aware that the situation in the Slovenian Army is not the best, but not because of the soldiers, not because of their work. The problem is much deeper and, unfortunately, with populism, we will not solve it. Together, we must strive to improve the situation even when the Minister of Defence and his team draw up two important laws relating to the improvement of the status of members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The proposal for a defence law and a proposal for a service law in the Slovenian Army are in parliamentary benches since 5 September 2017. At the request of the SDS, a general discussion was held on 19 October 2017. It was concluded that the draft Law on Defence was suitable for further consideration. Unfortunately, the draft law was stuck in the second reading on the working body, and if there was a sincere desire between Members and Members to improve the situation of soldiers and soldiers and the defence system as a whole, the proposed proposal for a public presentation of opinions should not be an excuse or an obstacle to the proposed law not to allow further proceedings. The President of the Republic of Slovenia and the Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces also invites us in our opinion to consider whether we have sufficient political will to adopt both proposed laws. It assesses that the adoption of both bills would benefit the Slovenian Army in particular; this is how the President of the Republic concluded. If something we need today is to consider ourselves between two choices: between what is more desirable, but more harmful, to overcome with pre-election rhetoric everything that might be good and to subdue that little hope and responsibility that we all carry together to the Slovenian Army, or that right, honestly, that we are helping the Slovenian Army to the best of our ability. Social Democrats will certainly choose the latter, less like, but the right choice, and we invite you, colleagues and colleagues to participate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u21	The word is given by the Left Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Madam President! Prime Minister Cerar said, at the latest, that this was the intentional humiliation of the Slovenian Army. I have to say, I even agree with him this time. Military bureaucracy would like to force an increase in military spending. The problem with Cerar and all political parties except the Left is that no one asks whether it is really necessary to maintain such a large permanent composition of the Slovenian Army. Most media believe that Slovenia lacks soldiers, but in fact Slovenia has more professional soldiers per capita than say the Czech Republic, Slovakia or Hungary. I mention these countries because they are economically comparable to Slovenia. At the same time, they are members of NATO. Most media believe that Slovenia is spending too little money for the military, but in fact Slovenia has spent more than the aforementioned Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary in the last 10 years on the military, that I am not talking about neutral Ireland or Austria at all. At the same time, most media are convincing people that an increase in military expenditure is necessary to ensure security, but Slovenia is surrounded by partner countries, members of the European Union. Slovenia is not under military threat in the medium term, unless someone really thinks the Russian Federation will attack us. What most media ignores is the government's plans to use as much as 1.2 billion euros to arm the two battalion groups alone. Respectable citizens and citizens, that is more than a second track. And it is precisely because the political class takes decisions on weapons based on wrong assumptions and past the citizens, that we demand that a referendum be held in Levica on the day of the elections. On Monday, you voted by a large majority to define the state and future of the Slovenian Armed Forces as President of Pahor. If you are at least a little consistent, you will also support our proposal at the April session to identify citizens on this issue. After all, it is the citizens who have to pay the bill in the end. It is therefore only democratic for citizens to decide whether 1.2 billion euros should be spent on two NATO battalion groups or rather spent on the development of Slovenia. As with other important issues, there is virtually no difference between the political environment and the political right. Everyone supports the submission of the Slovenian Army to Nate's demands and needs. The Left is the only political force offering an alternative. We demand that the Slovenian Army return to its constitutional function, and these are preparations for the defence of the state. Since Slovenia is not militarily threatened in the medium term, military expenditure can be frozen. There is also no real need to increase the number of members of the Slovenian Army, on the contrary – if the army returned to the defence function, they could even reduce the permanent composition. Slovenia maintains a large permanent composition precisely to provide personnel for NATO operations abroad; Slovenia is therefore in NATO summit by number of soldiers in operations abroad, taking into account the size of the country. And if you want to maintain units in constant readiness or operations abroad, you have to have a lot of professional soldiers. If you want to have an expeditionary army, you just have to have enough professionals to replace soldiers who are on sick leave, on parental leave, or simply don't want to do Nate's surgery anymore. But Slovenia doesn't need an expedition army. If the Slovenian Army were to return to its constitutional function – preparing for the defence of the state – the need for a large permanent structure and for large expenditure would be eliminated. As far as I am aware, some experts have proposed to Prime Minister Cerar in 2014 that the permanent composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces should be reduced to 5,000 members, but the government continued its old policy. By 2020, 50% of all units are expected to be ready to operate abroad, 10% are expected to be on a permanent basis or in operations abroad. Slovenia is still among the largest suppliers of living forces for NATO. Moreover, in the past, the Slovenian Army has been involved in operations that could at least be conditionally called peacekeeping operations. It is Cerar's government that has sent military patrols to the border with Croatia and troops to the Russian border in Latvia, which has nothing to do with peacekeeping operations. On 29 June, Minister Andrej Katič of the Social Democrats quota confirmed NATO's objectives for Slovenia. However, NATO's priority objective for Slovenia is to arm two battalion groups, for which a total of €1.2 billion is to be spent over the next eight years. This is more than all the budgets of the Ministry of Health have been in the last eight years. All together. That is why the Left requires that a referendum be held on the day of the election. We are convinced that Slovenia does not need new battalion groups, nor can it afford them. Citizens need to be made clear: with the support of NATO, the political class has set targets that have nothing to do with the defence of Slovenia, which go beyond the capabilities of our society, so it is no wonder that the military is unable to meet these objectives and the consequences are constant affairs. In these circumstances, no reasonable person would increase military spending, but would demand that the military return to its constitutional task, that is to say, to prepare for the defence of the state. The increase in expenditure is the throwing of money into a bottomless barrel. I am not saying this, but on the basis of past experience, because up to now 1.5 billion euros have been spent on the arms and equipment of the Slovenian Army. All major arms purchases were extremely suspicious. Remember just Roland's anti-aircraft system, which cost 40 million euros and was written off prematurely. Remember the modernisation of the T-55 tanks, which cost 52 million euros, and now the army sells the same thin as old iron. That the Patria affair, which weighs 268 million euros, I don't lose words at all. That is why I agree with experts, such as the press representative of the Slovenian Armed Forces, who says that the main reason for the departure of soldiers is not bad wages, but the missing purchases of weapons and the unresolved question of what is the task of the Slovenian Army in general. Because what makes sense for an expeditionary army is not meaningful for an army that is preparing for the defense of the state. I said earlier that Slovenia already has more professional soldiers per capita than a multi-urban country or as our neighbours Croatia and Italy. Slovenia therefore does not need 7 000 600 professional soldiers, as foreseen in the medium-term programme. He needs even less 8,000 professional soldiers, according to the Resolution on the long-term defence plan. We do not maintain a large permanent structure because of the defence of the country, but because of our participation in Nate's operations abroad. If the Slovenian Army were to start its constitutional function, i.e. the defence of the state, they could even reduce the permanent composition. Given the fact that more members of the army are already leaving the army than they are hired, they would be able to reduce the permanent composition naturally without anyone losing their job. If the permanent composition were reduced to the level required for the defence of the State, substantial financial resources would be released. These funds could be used to improve the salaries of soldiers and military personnel and to invest in units that perform socially beneficial functions in the field of protection and rescue. I'd say that for the end. Slovenia has a lost decade. The people who remained on the road in the crisis have still not recovered. The health system is in serious trouble. Scientists have recently warned by protest that the development of science and research has thus stopped. It is therefore necessary to ask what development and prosperity will bring — to hire a thousand 500 additional soldiers who will be a living force for NATO’s operations abroad, or to hire a thousand 500 scientists and researchers to enable the technological development of the economy and society. Let's ask ourselves what's wiser – to spend 1.2 billion euros to buy new floors, new Rolands, new hoods and other weapons, or to invest that money in research institutes, universities and civil technology? The answer is clear. Every euro we spend on weapons or on the military in general is lost to the development of society. Slovenia is not militarily threatened in the medium term, so we need to redirect 1.2 billion euros into science and development. In short, it is necessary to invest in life and not death, which is always a weapon in its final phase. In doing so, I should remind you that Austria is committed to a significantly lower share of GDP than Slovenia and to a significantly higher share of GDP for health and development. Austria is a neutral country, but also within NATO it could lead a different policy. Consider, for example, the Czech Republic. For the last 10 years, the Czech Republic has spent less on the army than Slovenia, so it has been able to devote more to health and development. Very specific; last year Slovenia spent $258 per capita for the military, the Czech Republic only $238. On the other hand, the Czech Republic allocated 108.4 euros of public funding per capita for research and development and only 95.5 euros for Slovenia. Hence, it certainly does not claim that there is no other policy within NATO. And that is why we in Levica demand that a referendum be held on the day of the elections, at which citizens could vote against Slovenia spending 1.2 billion euros to arm 2 battalion groups. Slovenia is not militarily threatened, which is here, President Pahor has pointed out several times in this place. However, it is still in a serious development crisis, so all available resources must be channelled towards development, especially because the purchase of new patriots or boxers would not protect us from any real security threat. Only arms producers and their domestic brokers would benefit from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u23	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u24	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We only know security when we're threatened, and it's too late. Why is safety important? It is important because if the country is safe, then investment comes, the economy starts, we have tourism, we collect taxes and taxes go to education, health and the military. If that's not the case, then the system is falling apart. What's in our national security system? If we look at – Owl's sentence, the police strike, and there are few employees, the military has a negative assessment. Answers to modern threats should be sought. Not with a system like that, of course not. It needs to be updated. If we have decided on NATO at the referendum, then it is right to meet these conditions, because the reputation is also important for the rest: for arbitration, for the relationship to Croatia to be redefined, for Mercator, for the salvation of the New Ljubljana Bank and everything else. If we have no reputation in the European Union, then we will not get what we want. And of course, what's the problem with money? Just one small segment. Money, as we can see, is enough. GDP is growing, the government is boasting, it's enough for 2TKK, it's enough for banks, it's enough for blood support and everything else. Is that enough for the army? And not just the money, what about everything else? If we look at the security situation in the world, the threats are changing. Is the defence-security system also changing? We are in the 4th Industrial Revolution – artificial intelligence, biotechnology, quantum physics, cyber world, crypto world and, of course, hybrid threats. We need to find answers to all of this and adapt the national security system. Of course, the role of the military in this system is changing — from that of the classic defence army to a completely different one — and this must be adapted by the modern army. The weakest link in this system is that it's human, not technology. It's money for technology, but there are problems in man and problems in cooperation between ministries. Why? The future of the modern system is a soldier, he is a police officer and there are other employees, including problems in civil protection. Education and training and, of course, security culture must be adapted. Why security culture? This is the most important one. Responses to modern hybrid threats are reflected in the security, economic, social and cultural fields, all ministries must participate. And now young people are focused on how to attract them into the profession, how we will ensure the career of these young people in the profession after we have to stop the profession early, how to interest them in being a respected profession in society. Therefore, changes are needed. And what kind of army do we want in the future? I say the plural army – not the classic one that everyone has in mind – that will be able to respond to security challenges. Education and training must be taken care of, however, for the development of the profession and, of course, for the career system. The goal is the safe life of every individual and a secure Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u25	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Marjan Dolinšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u26	Thank you, Chairman! Nice greeting, distinguished minister, colleagues, colleagues and others present! Our position on the proposal for a recommendation from the Government, which was written in relation to the situation in the Slovenian Army in the SDS and Novi Slovenija, was already presented at the 61st emergency meeting of the Defence Committee, where we voted against the proposal for a recommendation. Our position has not changed since 28 February when the recommendation was rejected by the Defence Committee. In spite of the problems that have arisen in several mandates, but most intensively in the period of the financial crisis and its associated reckless intervention in defence funds, the Government has seen the solutions of the proposal as unnecessary or unfulfilled. Let us recall what is proposed in the SDS and New Slovenia by the Government to improve the situation of members and members and to improve the state of readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces. First, the exemption of the Slovenian Army from the public servants system. Secondly, a change in the composition of the military to include a new professional permanent composition and hybrid reserve composition. And thirdly, an intervention wage increase of 30%. Part of the opposition offers at first sight who might like the suggestions, but as at the principle level, without thinking about the consequences for the functioning of all social systems and subsystems, can we all support the reduction of taxes? [[...]] Most likely. Responsibilities and long-term abstinence? No, no, no. This is also said by the profession, which, on the proposals of such and similar, responded over the finger of written intervention measures to improve the situation in the Slovenian Army with estimates from unrealistic to ridiculous. Such an uncritical and publicized intervention in defence funds at the time of saving has brought us into an unloving situation of intertwined problems, which we are struggling to solve today. If we take measures to improve the situation in the Slovenian Army with the same logic as saving – this is linear, without a clear objective and a plan for their consumption, only to be liked by members of the Slovenian Army and members of the electoral body – we will only deepen and extend the damage to other areas. Much too high a cost for cheap political capital with a short term. Instead of the proposal for a recommendation, we support the specific actions and actions already taken by the Government of Dr. Mira Cerar in the Group of the Modern Centre. The government has managed to halt the trend of nominal decline in defence funds, while at the same time in December 2016, when considering the conclusions of the Strategic Defence Review, it instructed the Ministry of Finance to take into account the possibility of a gradual nominal growth of the defence budget of EUR 20 to 30 million per year in the preparation of budgets in the next medium term. As early as last May, the Government increased its defence funds by EUR 24.3 million in 2017 and made it clear that the funds will increase by at least 30 million annually in the period 2018-2025. In order to significantly increase the funds that opens up investment and development opportunities for the Slovenian Army and the entire defence system, it is clear that the medium-term defence programme of the Republic of Slovenia 2016-2020 has been amended twice as a result of the increase in funds. It is the responsibility and responsibility of the Ministry of Defence, headed by Minister Andreja Katič, to use these funds on the basis of international commitments, national legislation and strategic documents in cooperation with expertly thought and transparent spending. As demonstrated and pointed out by recent events in the Slovenian Army, financial resources are necessary, but not sufficient, for the effective functioning of a system, as well as career development and the satisfaction of the staff in it. Poor communication and tension in mutual relations, especially in hierarchically regulated systems, can cause more damage than the most powerful explosive. In the SMC Group, we will take into account the wish of the new Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces that he and his co-workers take the necessary time to draw away from the undue attention of politics and the public to prepare a set of necessary measures. We therefore believe that the proposal for such measures and the thorough report to be prepared by the Minister will be an appropriate basis for this government to start and continue to modernise the Slovenian Armed Forces as a pillar of the defence system and at the same time the employer to its members and members. We hope that today's debate on the proposal will recommend proof that there is responsibility and political will in the National Assembly in support of this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u27	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. Mr Jan Škoberne and Mr Luka Mesec have the floor as the first Mr Franz Jurša. Mr. Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u28	Vice President, thank you for your word. Once again, I welcome it all very well! Yes, as I have already announced in the position of the Group of Members, this is a very important topic which we may have addressed a little too late, but it is never too late to resolve a particular matter. If we are monitoring events for some time in the Slovenian Army, then we have to exclude one golden period, which was there somewhere from 2005 to 2008; well, then there were also times of so-called fat cows. Then came the economic, economic crisis, and, of course, there were also times when we budgeted, with budget rebalancies, constantly reducing funds. From the original 1,7 % of the gross social product for the Slovenian Army we came under 1% of the gross social product for the Slovenian Army. These crises have somehow fuelled today's situation in the Slovenian Army. Things have been changing slowly for the last two years. This change in the situation did not in fact dictate only a better economic situation in Slovenia, an economic situation in Slovenia, but in some ways it also encouraged the situation in which we found ourselves. Indeed, there has actually been quite a migration crisis in this recent period, and in this Chamber we have also adopted some laws authorizing the Slovenian Army to participate in the resolution of these problems. And of course, after all this, the red light came on. And at this point, it's time to save what to get rid of, but we can't hesitate for too long. Here I would say, however, that I support that proposal by the President of the Republic, the Commander-in-Chief, to adopt a system law that will allocate funds to the entire security system and that this will not depend on every single government, what kind of proposal it will put into the budget or budget balance. As I said before, this situation has not been the case since yesterday, but it has come out or escalated in the assessment of the battalion's Poček fighting group. This negative assessment was in some ways also due to the fact that the situation within the Slovenian Army is not what it should be. These options to make this assessment later and to prepare the army for this evaluation, these options existed. Why did the Slovenian officers do this right now, or are there any reasons why this matter should be investigated? If it is necessary, then, Minister, it is necessary to take action and to bring this matter to an end in order to be revealed. It is also true that this should not be neglected that the Minister has carried out assessments of the generals to the President of the Government; three times these assessments of preparedness and competence and combat have been negative. Perhaps someone, although they ensured that this was done on the basis of some proposals when some standards were laid down, that an assessment was made on the basis of this, but perhaps in some way it was intended to point out to us that there was something to be done in the area of finance. [[…]] This negative assessment was not the most encouraging to the public, but I must say that despite the fact that these assessments were still in line for three years, Slovenians and Slovenians still trust the Slovenian Army in some way. And we must not lose this remaining confidence in the future. Therefore, once again, we must act, and this proposal seems quite right to me, as proposed by the Commander-in-Chief. From my point of view, I found that when I read the position of the Desus Group that they were smiling at individuals — which I somehow didn't think was strange — when I started talking about why this responsibility, why the Slovenian Army is in such a state, is not just on the sides of politics. What was I trying to say? There is a hierarchy in the Slovenian Army and this hierarchy must be respected. The lowest commanders at the lowest levels take responsibility, up to those at the highest levels, and the highest commander in the army is known and is the Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Army. And if everyone took that responsibility in a row, it probably wouldn't have happened to us in training, checking on Poczk. We cannot say, however, that we will transfer this responsibility to those lowest levels of command. We can't do this and we can't do this. If I may also make my assessment of whether the discharge procedure of Chief General Staff is one that will bring these changes to a large extent, but at this point, I will say nothing bad about the one who is leaving, and I will not touch this topic, but I have my opinion on the working body on this publicly and loudly. [[…]] Well, now I might as well touch the Commander-in-Chief. I will not go in 2008 and 2009 until 2011, when social democracy was in power. These were actually the most difficult years and the economic crisis was at that time with a big lunch in our country. It wasn't easy and there could have been no government. However, I would like to point out that the Commander-in-Chief should bring certain matters of progress to the presidency of the Ministry in order to have a greater choice, which he will put first, in the post of Chief of Staff. Here, however, the President demanded some career plans and so on, but of course, the Commander-in-Chief does not have this authority, even though he is the Commander-in-Chief. The Slovenian army is not in good shape. If we think about how many members we are missing, then — if we compare this relationship between officers, officers, and soldiers — we come to very strange conclusions. Why is there such a relationship? Look, for this salary, young boys won't go to the Slovenian Army. This could be done in a time of economic crisis when there were no jobs, but today, when there is demand for workers, we know that everyone who is potential candidates for the Slovenian Army already has their jobs and jobs where they get a better salary, which is logical and normal. If we do not change this matter, there will be more and more departures and no arrivals in the Slovenian Army. Well, if I made another comparison. Given that I belong to the party's parliamentary group, which has a good social programme and which is a social party, then it would be probable — and I must say this in any case — that higher pensions should be provided in this society, that higher minimum wages should be provided, that more money should be provided for public education in order to provide more money for public health and to organise it better. However, for all of this, we must, of course, provide more resources. And if all of this is guaranteed, then in this society we will all be much better off together. And one more thing. What we propose in our client is not negligible. We had suggested a few years ago at our convention that we actually put in an assembly. This set of Slovenian boys and girls would be aimed at 3 months of training. What kind of training would that be? I'm not selling out right now. But I'll tell you, with certainty, I'm saying that we would have a significantly larger base for the recruitment of a professional army. In no case do we think about sending these guys on missions, in no case, but we would be the basis for recruitment for the professional Slovenian Army. All those in the army know what it looks like in the army and what young boys in the army learn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u29	Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor. Prepare Mr. Luke Mesec and Janez Janš. Here you go, Mr. Scoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, the President of the Republic, Mr Borut Pahor, has already said everything essential for today's session. It is up to us that the guidelines that he has given and are true are implemented, of course, on the basis of the work that has already been done. After at least two governments, which, in response to a severe crisis that has not only affected Slovenia but the whole Eurosystem and beyond, had to reduce – not only in defence but also in all other areas – that government, which has provided more resources, has begun to improve both material and intangible conditions; last but not least through two basic laws, the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, which have been put into the procedure of this National Assembly and its consideration at the public presentation of opinions and the possibility that we will even deal with them in this plenary, we are waiting. However, this is the basis for what the Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces said must follow in a broad political and social consensus once these foundations are accepted and laid. We need a Slovenian army, but we need to establish a supra-party consensus, if you want, on how we will do this in the coming decades. If only in one segment I touch on why I also assess that the recommendations that have been made are not appropriate and cannot be confirmed. During a time of peace that is, of course, significantly different from emergency or war situations, a soldier or soldier must also have the right to parental leave, to care for the child and all the rights that are – of course, with the logical limitations resulting from the specificity of this work – set out the Labour Relations Act. And getting out of the pay system in the public sector doesn't even address it. At the same time, the proposer who today requires an exit from the public sector is the one who set up the system. Political thinking can also change through evolution, but this does not solve the underlying problem. As also follows from the presentation of the position of the President of the Republic, we need to resolve the situation through sectoral legislation, not only in the Republic of Slovenia, but also in Germany's armed forces, including France and some others, with the consequences of saving during a severe crisis. And the basis for this, if we want to do something serious and sincere for the Slovenian Army, is to speed up and allow in this reference the adoption of the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, the improvement of both the social, material and organisational position of the Slovenian Army, its members and members. We will do the most with this, as the President of the Republic has said in his implementation today. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u31	Mr. Luka Moon has the floor. Get ready for Mr. Janez Janša and Marko Ferruga. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u32	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! The proposal is based on two assumptions. The first is: Slovenia is at risk. The second is: Slovenia is at risk because our army is not functional, because it is financially and humanly malnourished. This leads to the conclusion that we must invest more in the military, that soldiers should be excluded from the uniform system of public sector wages and raise wages by 30% and lobby for investments in weapons, namely 1.2 billion by 2025 for the equipment of two medium-sized battalion fighting groups. Maybe it's just a short replica of Jean Mahnič who had previously missed his laps. It's not about investments for the next 10 years, it's about the next 8 years. And here I'm going to add what Violet said earlier: 1.2 billion in eight years is more than we have invested in health care over the past eight years. So much for how hard this investment is. That we are not even talking about raising the salaries and costs of the Slovenian Army in general if we approach what President Pahor has pointed out, namely that these costs should go – together for the police and the military – to 2.5 GDP in ten years. At the same time, it is important to ask whether the proposals are correct. Is Slovenia really under military threat? Does it really make sense that we arm ourselves this way? I will first touch on what President Pahor has already stressed. Slovenia is not directly under military threat. We're surrounded by friendly countries. All four of our immediate neighbours are members of the European Union. Austria is even declared neutral. So, I think with considerable certainty we can say that none of the neighbouring countries is even about to threaten us. Then if we're talking about hybrid warfare, which the proponents like to stress, I'd say that. After all, he is now stressing this hybrid warfare as a risk, which, through the development of the global network, is also a possibility of a wide variety of hacker warfare, it stands out as a domain of the military, but it is not necessarily the domain of the military. However, protection against hacker attacks can be a domain of the state administration, it can also be a domain of individuals, as we eventually have all some antiviral protections, etc. programs on your computers. In particular, they are protected computers and servers of national importance. If we are talking about terrorist attacks that you like to expose; I also do not see here in essence how the army that is meant to defend us, especially against other armies of foreign countries, how this should help us against, say, the possibility of some suicide attack in Slovenia that is taking place across Europe. Usually it's the police, not the military. And I don't understand how any of these threats would actually help arm two middle-aged battalion groups. And why would we put a billion 200 million dollars into it, maybe a billion and a half if we still have domestic brokers' commissions and we can nail someone else. Why? I just don't understand. If we move forward now, where I am partly giving you the right and I am giving the President of the country some of the right. However, the international environment is changing and becoming less stable. That's right, it's only here that we have to ask ourselves why and how to react. I think it is clear to every observer of international developments that under the new President of the United States Trump, the U.S. strategy, which has dominated the world for decades through economic and political influence, is becoming more and more weapons, fertilization with weapons and raw power. This started in North Korea; the last time, 14 days ago, if you read reports from the Munich Security Conference, our allies were openly setting up the Russian Federation, China and someone else on some new axis of evil and talking about the upcoming possible new global war. These are factors of an unstable international environment. But who are we here with in the alliance? I think that we are in alliance with the United States in NATO, and with the country currently the largest factor in global instability, its "twitter president" may be the most dangerous to cook something like this. I don't believe that we could be, like, caught in the middle of a world war by what scenario could someone possibly attack us? [[...]] I think it's only under the terms of world war, because we're allied, in some block. That's when we can become targets. And that's why we're arming ourselves? Look, I'm sure we should do the opposite. Cancel investments and get as close as possible to a neutral position and do not get involved in the fertilization of weapons currently being carried out by world powers. What exactly do we get out of this? Let's have a friendly relationship with everyone, so far we have them, we trade successfully with all the countries in the East, the West and [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Let's not just get involved in this. [[…]] Of course, but we can only draw our own target if we become overly entrenched in the interest of some coming greatness who has now decided with the muscles to try to control the world. And that's not gonna work, because we've seen this before in history, but it won't work. And I think it's just completely stupid and wrong that we insist on it and that we're still pouring billions of public money for it. Who will really benefit from this weaponry if we overlook this whole fertilization with the future world war, and I don't know what? In Europe, it is mainly driven by Germany and France, which are arms manufacturers themselves, and at home it is likely to benefit some intermediary. If I get too close to home affairs now. You say the Slovenian Army is undernourished. Violet used to make a pretty good comparison. In Slovenia we spend $258 per person per year for the military. The Czech Republic makes $238 per capita, Hungary 163. These are, say, comparable countries around us. So, is the army really fed? If comparable countries devote so much, I cannot say that it is undernourished, we are giving more of these countries. Is it really necessary to invest more in the army? The right hand somehow carried out this conclusion after this insufficient self-assessment of the Slovenian Army. If you read the letter of the Military Union, Defence and Protection of 21 February, they said — the soldiers themselves — that there had been largely this negative assessment due to the serious flaws in command. Soldiers say so themselves. So what's the problem? In finance, in command, in organization, perhaps in the sense of this army, which has become a subcontractor of Nate? Is there really more money to be provided? After all, I also get the feeling that Prime Minister Cerar expressed that this self-assessment of planned sabotage before the elections was carried out. Not because we would have any electoral interests in the military, but simply to put themselves at the centre of public controversy just before the elections, to encourage what President Pahor has done today, it is said that the parties in the National Assembly will consider, in the long run, how we will increase our security spending to 2.5% in the ten years – in the medium term. The right has sparked debates on how to exempt soldiers from the single pay system, although on the other hand it is against, let's say, that the soldiers could unionise and their fundamental rights, and this is how their action succeeded. We do not, of course, sit on this in Levika and sit on the flossules to be threatened, nor to these pre-election demands of the Slovenian Army, which is forcing more resources, and we propose something completely different. If we do not want to fall behind on development, we will spend 1.2 billion on something smarter than the import of weapons and propose that citizens make their own statements about what is a priority for them; we will put it into science, health, education or we will put it into weapons imports. We propose that a consultative referendum be convened and that people decide for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u33	Mr Janez Janša has the floor to prepare Mr Marko Ferlug and Mr Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. The real intonation, or the real emphasis on understanding the situation which is why we are even discussing this issue today, was partly given by the President of the country before he mentioned the beginnings of the Slovenian Army. Of course, he was flawed. If I recall correctly, he said how Slovenia decided in this house to have the Slovenian Army of Maloney. How this has proved necessary and this need still exists today. Today we are discussing this issue in my opinion precisely because of the way Slovenia decided to have the Slovenian Army. This was not the way of agreement, of agreement, of national unity, but was the way of one vote of the majority of Demos, by which we voted the Law on the Defence of Spring – I think March – in 1991. If one member of the then coalition Demos had been sick or had an accident on the road before a joint meeting of all three congregations was voted on, then probably the Slovenian Armed Forces would not have had it, and the big question is if we had a Slovenian country. We had a plebiscite in December 1990, we had a resolution adopted by the then Assembly in July on Slovenian independence, we had a series of constitutional laws stipulating that Slovenia would become independent, the then government proposed the Defence Act and the Military Duty Act early in the autumn of 1990, and both laws were passed six months late, including the defence budget, which was adopted on 31 March 1991, three months before the war. There was no such Rules of Procedure at the time. There was a policy that everyone could discuss, how many times he wanted and how many times he wanted to replicate was replicated, and for six months we discussed whether Slovenia needed an army or not, and one vote of the majority decided at the end. Mr Ribičič, Potč, Školč, Šetinc, also Mr Pahor discussed for days how Slovenia does not need an army. In a situation where we already had plebiscite for ourselves, when Slovenian politics was ordered by the people to take over and in a situation where Slovenia was forced through customs and federal duties to pay about 800 million US dollars at the time for the Yugoslav army grenades, which they then shot at us. Four times as many as four times as Slovenia has given for the Yugoslav army in the last year, in the former Yugoslavia, for the Aggressor Army, and for the Slovenian Army the first year after we were independent. Four times more! On the side of the so-called left, no one was disturbed, but they opposed the last dinar even then for the Slovenian Army. We have adopted a key law by one vote of the majority. After the excruciating debates. In the White Book of Slovenian Independence, which is available free of charge, free of charge online, you can read these discussions. Mr Pahor's debates, which opposed the Slovenian Army, also voted against. And that is why I understand that at this time, when he is nominally the Commander of the Slovenian Army, he is not exactly one of the souls, from the heart a warm advocate of correcting the situation in the Slovenian Army. Overture to this opposition was the so-called Declaration of Peace, signed by four members of the Five Supreme Command – Milan Kučan, Dušan Plut, Cyril Zlobec, Matjaž Kmecl – and in which it said that we did not need the Slovenian Armed Forces; they were the nominal commander of this Slovenian Army. Also, hand in hand, the three vice-presidents of the then Demos government signed the same declaration. For this reason, for example, part of the party of the Greens, without which there was no majority, did not vote in favour of these laws and therefore there was only one majority vote for the key law. So, it went through Shivanka's ear, and when I listen to these discussions today, I see a single difference here. At that time, the left fully claimed that Slovenia did not need its army, had its own JLA – the nation thought otherwise, fortunately – but today part of this left claims the same, and the other part claims that we need the Slovenian Army and does everything to ensure that we do not have it. A key evidence of what I just said is in the information that the new Chief of Staff said at the press conference today. The wage of a professional soldier in 2008 was 95% of the average wage in Slovenia, and today it is 55%. 40% of the average wage is lower and no crisis is to blame. In 2012, when we had to reduce budget expenditure, as well as part of other public expenditure with the so-called Zujf by hundreds of millions – indirectly almost a billion euros – then Slovenia gave some less than 400 million euros for the Slovenian Army or for the defence. This is the year when Slovenia took the crisis seriously and the year when we still had more than a 2% drop in gross domestic product. Last year, Slovenia had a 5% economic growth and we gave 40 million or 50 million less to defend it than in 2012. 50 million less. Of course, this situation has not occurred in one year, but this situation has accumulated and culminated in a state for which even the nominee commander has been saying for two years now that Slovenia does not have an army capable of operating in war or crisis situations – in situations that have actually created this institution. Apologize to money and to these things is, of course, very much beyond the real cause of the situation we are in. It is simply a matter of definition to the Slovenian country and, of course, part of the Slovenian state is also the Slovenian Army. Those who did not want the Slovenian Armed Forces at the time of their creation to do everything they could not have done — and indirectly not to have Slovenia's independence — then for decades they worked hard to ensure that this institution, which was in fact the only institution of the Slovenian State to be re-established, would never have been able to absorb its breath until the end. In the end, they found tools or weapons with which they almost succeeded. These are the salaries of the military. Any reform you make today in the Slovenian Army – you can buy the most modern armored, including planes if you want, the best uniforms, take care of the best education, etc. - None of this will work if there are no soldiers. This is the most critical point in the Slovenian Army and also in many other compositions. And if you risk your own life for your country at the end of a career, you give 55% of the average salary in the country that you think you're going to go into that job. Certainly a few enthusiasts, but especially those who do not have a second chance today. This is a fundamental reason for the rash and to talk about what kind of funds will be bought, what will happen, is totally meaningless until this fundamental problem is resolved. And you can get rid of it either within a single pay system or outside. It can, given that obviously a single salary system is not a problem, because we also had it in 2008, and the salaries of the soldiers were 40% higher relative to the average wage. Of course, the system itself is not the reason for such a situation. The reason is those who had to take care of the defence system for the Slovenian Army at this time. And these were mainly defence ministers, heads of government, government, government coalitions; they were the ones who took responsibility for running the country. It is true, however, that you need a different government than the one you have today to arrange this situation within a single pay system. You need a strong government that hopes to raise one part of the same public sector to pay for five classes, to know how to explain, justify and withstand the political pressure that will then come from all ends. If the government is solid, if it is able to argue and politically survive, then you can solve this tomorrow within the same pay system, even without law. The government has every opportunity to intervene in a sector if the situation is at risk; it introduces supplements, temporary allowances which can be one year, two years until the situation is resolved systematically. And that, ladies and gentlemen – here is only one lady from the Government – you can do it tomorrow at the government's meeting. You can solve this problem tomorrow. They are resources because economic growth is sufficient. You're all for it. The Left, who says we don't need the Army, are practically out of the coalition, all three of the parties you've ensured that we need the military and that the problem needs to be solved, you're in the Government, so tomorrow, take the decision, you'll give the Slovenian soldiers the extras to come to the average salary, and tomorrow, no one will think about leaving the army and leaving the gates of recruitment centers or military stations where applications for new jobs will be collected, and then a few more people will be at a time than now that they are practically gone. Tomorrow you can solve this problem if you want. The government has every authority to do this. All this talk about the two laws that have not yet been passed, etc., is purely perversion. Systemic, clearly, this needs to be regulated, either within a single pay system or outside. I believe that this government is not capable within this, given how you negotiate with public sector unions and how virtually no one knows who is drinking and who is paying, but can be solved outside, it is also a very simple decision, or with intervention measures that the Government can take tomorrow. If what you were saying is true, there is a political will, the funds are If this can be guaranteed 130 million for illegal migrants 2 years ago, when the economic situation was significantly worse, you will also find 15 million for the recovery of the wage situation in the Slovenian Army. [[…]] And now we may also be on another crucial issue, this is a matter of danger. The President of the country said we need a threat assessment. We need common sense more than a threat assessment. An assessment of the threat in these situations that we are in is likely to mean that some 5 institutes or some quasi institutes will deserve something to get some papers where what you can find on the Internet today, if you look at a few websites, and of course there is nothing of it. It is more important to reach a consensus on what danger is. However, there are other differences, as they were at the time of independence. When we discussed the Defence Act and the Military Duty Act in the spring of 1991, most of the area, which was poorly regulated at that time, felt threatened by the Yugoslav army, by threats from generals from then on from Belgrade, from threats of military impact, from snipers we had there in Mladika and from the occupied building of the former Territorial Defence Headquarters, 30 metres away from my office, so we felt threatened, and from these threats we felt threatened by 90% of the people in Slovenia, Slovenia and Slovenes and other citizens who voted in the plebiscite for their own country. And also this threat and the sense of danger have contributed to this result. But almost half of the assembly and 10% of the people who voted against independence on the plebiscite or boycotted that vote were not at risk because they felt that JLA was their army to protect their privileges, their status, their power, as far as the rest was concerned, and that the view of that threat was different and that was why the vote was different. Well, and if we look now, in today's situation, and skip some other comparisons, which would also be possible, we go a few years ago when 10 to 15 thousand illegal migrants passed through Slovenia daily; then, I don't know, about 90% of the people, even most of the people in this assembly felt this as an indirect threat at least. If we remember the frightened faces of some Slovenian police chiefs there in Brežice, and some ministers and ministers, the Prime Minister of the Government who did not know what to say, when the Slovenian police on one side rejected people at border crossings because they did not have a valid Schengen visa, they came to do business in Slovenia – or they had a visa that had expired on them for 3 months – but along with a few meters, 15 thousand people passed without any control, without any control, at the beginning of the walk, until someone remembered that at least their trains would be organized to Austria, and it was chaos, pure chaos and immediate threat. But even then, some, I will say, considered these arrivals of a horde of illegal migrants as a friendly visit; “Refugees welcome!”, some tweeted. So it wasn't a threat to them. However, I must say that for most of this assembly, this was obviously a threat, because at that time – unfortunately, I was not involved because I was at another event in Spain at that time – at a night meeting, I decided to increase the powers of the Slovenian Army. And it wasn't in 1991, it wasn't in 1995, it wasn't in the last century; it was in this mandate. In this mandate, you voted to suspend the Slovenian Army's mandate, which it did not previously have, due to an increased threat. So, to say that we are not threatened by anyone here, that someone is pushing the situation, that the friendly countries around us are around us, that we don't need the Slovenian armies, let's give now for health, instead of for the military, I just have to say how familiar this sounds to me, even though it's been decades. [[…]] When I came to work this morning, right over at County, where there was the Ministry of Defence back then, and if I opened the window on the other side, the snipers measured us from that bank building where there was once a territorial defense, and we wondered when it would start to collapse. Then I came 100 meters away, I, in this building, to the congregation; but here, in a similar way to what we hear today, some said that there was no threat that we were exaggerating, that no one would attack us, that Slovenia did not need an army. Worse still – when we went a little further, where the Supreme Command was, there were four members of the Presidency of the Republic, the Supreme Command of the Defence Forces, who signed that Slovenia did not need an army, and they did not feel threatened. We, as fellow Member Franci Breznik used to say, never cleaned up these things at the time of independence. Here, as the late Dr. Jože Pučnik said, it was the elements of high treason in those days, but no one has pointed out it, no one has sanctioned it, no one has cleared it up, and so today we are facing this same legacy as no other country is facing, because they have somehow cleared up such things, at least if we look around our neighborhood. So the problem that we are talking about today, which is why this extraordinary meeting, is deeper than just the issue of funding. It's worse than that, but we have no illusions that this can be resolved within this mandate. However, because of the major problem, it is true that the human factor actually burns water, and we are trying to reach some appeal with this meeting to those who have scissors and canvas in your hands to take the necessary intervention measures in the coming days so that the Slovenian Army will not completely disintegrate and disintegrate. This isn't about years anymore, it's about weeks, it's about months. Waiting for the next government in autumn means that you will have another thousand 500 soldiers less depending on the economic trends that are going on, and then Slovenia will have no choice but to reintroduce the recruitment system and take a number of other measures that go on here. These will be situations that you will find difficult to explain to your constituents and voters. As some of my fellow Members and colleagues have said before me, we have not called these meetings to determine who is responsible for this situation and so on, although some analysis needs to be done if we are to come to a solution; we have called on it because the side of the bell is actually beating. And it's not the main problem with this assessment, the negative assessment of the battalion group at Poček. The main problem is this number highlighted today by the Chief of Staff. The salary of the Slovenian soldier today is 55% of the average wage in Slovenia. And whoever permits it and insists on it destroys the Slovenian Army and we appeal to you to end it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u35	Replica, Mr. Luka Moon. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u36	Yes, thank you. Mr. Janša has his memories. I have a shorter political history, but I remember something myself. For example, in 2015, Janez Janša's party, when we had a refugee crisis, talked about hordes, wild hordes of migrants, something that we have heard today that will now Islamize this country that will take our women, tear our pride and I don't know what. And if they took their warnings so seriously at that time, they would imagine that in 2018, so today, Slovenia would look about the way it looks in the Houellebecq Subordination; women would cover themselves overnight, start wearing long pants, and there would be no mines growing in the country. And just as empty are your warnings about [[microphone off]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u37	Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Han and Dr. Franz Ducky. Mr. Ferruga, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Minister! When we have a king of Instagram who reigns with his army, everything is fine and everything is possible; the flowers are blooming and there are virtually no problems. But when we look at some reality, when we wake up from this story of Trnuljčica, when we all suddenly want to have a functional, operational, very well-equipped army, there is something else. Even this today’s pahorian talk — humble, well - mannered, Samaritan — was very much said, but there was little concrete about the contents. [[…]] We all know we have problems. We are all aware that the accumulated problems based on the past lack of adequate both financial resources and some completed visions of what we want and what we want to do with this army lead to this culmination that we have now come to. I think it is basically right that policy is transparent, including in the area of defence. But maybe it's not quite right, and I always say that on an open stage, in the eyes of the domestic and foreign public, all our weaknesses, as well as the advantages, if you will. I think that for some responsible policy that wishes to have the Slovenian Army as it is appropriate and as it is doing so, it is not, in my opinion, State behaviour. But before that, I forgot to commend and thank all the soldiers and soldiers who are doing this duty with great honor and responsibility, regardless of what we are talking about today. So they are greatly grateful for all that they have done and done in all these years. When we turn to these matters, I also have in mind perhaps an unimaginable and incomplete transformation of the Slovenian Army into this professional army, which has been going on all this time. In addition, what has already been said in previous speeches by my colleagues – that these new global challenges have definitely changed very radically and that we have somehow fallen asleep in this segment, knowing that we have limited resources, so material and financial. I think that we are all united here, that the issue of the situation in the Slovenian Army is a web of different interconnected and complex related factors and we do not have much to lose words about. But we can say, and it is commendable, even though with one such reservation, that this government, in this mandate, if not another, has at least stopped this downward trend and, at least a little, held it up and turned it up a little, triflingly. Of course we can't go through with this, and here I'm going to refer to this letter from the Swedish Federation, there's a statement for the media and the members that the Military, Defence and Protection Union has given 21. 2. where it is explicitly stated that the problem is not only in the Mors and the political summit, and that since 2006 the WHO has been pointing out an unenviable situation. The only way out of the crisis – and I didn't hear it from the commander, they say here from the unions – is, for the first time, a change in political thinking, a second time, the establishment of responsibility, both disciplinary, criminal and compensation, and the third time, which is very important, is our political will, which in these turbulent times before the elections is what it is. Here, too, they say very well, and I will quote: “The current Commander has begun to reduce funds on the Morse, but now he demands responsibility and an end to the conditions to which the U.S.S.S. has constantly warned. The same has been true for all policy participants since 2006. A lot of deception, hypocrisy and duality. But if we weren't able to make some big moves, we've already seen that. We have two problems. One is political and the other is professional. As far as our professional Slovenian army abroad is concerned, they perceive and praise our home in a different way, but this is almost a typical Slovenian behavior. [[…]] But as for all these achievements, which are, there is also one big question of responsibility, which goes down from top to bottom throughout the military hierarchy. And there's one big question, too, how and what. The questions about what was happening and this smurfing of the Slovenian Army in the public I think there is no one in favour, because, as I mentioned, we are both all intelligence services and embassies very well listen and monitor all these developments around us. The problem that is being dealt with here requires some sort of solution. We still don't have a vision of how we're going to save these girls and boys after 50 years. I debated with one of the gentlemen and he said, "Well, basically we could solve this very easily and quickly." The idea is to set up a state agency to protect state buildings and anyone else. Basically, like all these security agencies that are now working and could be here. It's also one of the options, but it's at the General Staff, Morse, or the Minister, to see somehow, how and what. One of the very good concepts – and as far as I understand the Minister – was the concept of Mr Vebra – is that of a complementary Slovenian army along with Civil Protection. So we take advantage of the numbers and possibilities and resources we have. I think it's a good concept and it's going on. I could ask you a rhetorical question. What has the General Staff been doing all these years, and if he's been doing anything, why aren't they like officers and gentlemen in that movie, or have they stepped down or stepped down to point out these problems that they are? And they didn't have any self-reflection or self-criticism to come up with what we have today. Investments in the military area are not like buying food and some shoes, they require professional grounds, they have been given, the military has given its vision of the medium-term programme from 2020-2025. Today, as has been said at the press conference, all these human resources problems and insufficient funding are at stake. The trends, thank God, have stopped, but now we have to take this big step. You know, once you cut 110 million in one term or one financial period, it's very difficult to make up for. This is also known when such cuts occur at home. Here is something else that has also been pointed out in an article in Del, how Mr Borut Pahor advocates the situation in the military, where he is literally mentioned, and then Borut Pahor said in his role as Prime Minister: “In Morse we have an administrative apparatus as large as when we had an army of 70,000 members.” On this subject too, perhaps something should be discussed and said. In my opinion, however, all these anomalies are the responsibility of the highest representatives of the Slovenian Armed Forces; otherwise, we have now had this replacement and I hope that this attitude, which is half Noah's, will change with the new Chief of General Staff. Secondly, this is on all of us here, who are present in politics who will continue to be present, but also that politics must carry out a constructive function in these state-owned ministries. Warnings have been fast for years. It is also necessary to resolve the situation that the Slovenian Army will not control itself and that it only works within certain prescribed frameworks and that the situation is okay and that there is nothing wrong; we know this situation from the time of the Yugoslav People's Army, when everything was great and everything is beautiful and then it has spread out on its own. And when we set up the hierarchy of responsibility, just as it was written, and somehow show a vision where we want it and where we want it, then I think it'll be easier for everything. But in fact, we need to remove the policy from this part of the process, because otherwise we will be crying as we are now, it is said that the policy of this and those parties will always be known who had this ministry under us and this mutual frown will not bring any further steps. [[…]] We have the Slovenian Army, we want it to be efficient, operational and rational in accordance with the resources and opportunities we have. Now let's take this step forward that we need. It is true, however, that I do not sprinkle my ashes, that if we do not continue to work concretely from this point on, even from a financial point of view, things are as late as they are in all things. This is where investments are needed. We know the whole issue of how it is and how it is with aviation and land forces and with mechanization and investing in all this equipment, which has been neglected – because it has also been widely known that the soldiers have been silent and have been taking quite a hat away from them and no one has responded to these matters. And to figure out that we have a navy that doesn't even have its own pier. And we come up with things like this that are really funny. There's a left here to plead once, whether we want to have this army or not, we don't want to have this army, where we want to go, where we're going. Since this yapping and this dying of meals, I don't think anyone's good for it. However, I think that the military is one of the fundamental components of this country, which has also been defeated in the final phase, and I think that it is going to find its own place and therefore fight and work, from the Minister forward, to this coalition and to this government and other governments, which are, because it doesn't matter whether it is left or right. But if we have such a stepmotherly relationship, then surely this cannot go on indefinitely so that I hope that today's debate will at least take some steps forward. It is clear, however, that now is the time for elections, and I do not think there will be any major effects. If these two marriages help so much, I have no problem with them, but I, too, am in doubt, really, on my own if these two marriages really make such great progress that was not made now in those 25 or those 10 years. So it is up to us to accept our responsibility. I think that Marjana and I have been on all these committees properly and specifically, and we have followed these guidelines, or all that the government and the ministry have somehow suggested that it should work. But in the final stage then we always stumble at some smallness that is unacceptable, and as far as I understand it, these sanctions were also made for all these commanders who allowed this stunt, which is the first step to start cleaning up inside this matter. But it is the worst thing for the military, this laundry outside, and I hope that you, Minister, will also achieve that this policy will withdraw as soon as possible from this political overplay of SD, SDS I do not think it leads anywhere in any constructive solution to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u39	We have a wish for a replica. Mr. Jan Škoberne, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Vice President. In my implementation, I specifically said that the basis of what we can do, as the President of the Republic said, is to adopt the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. Mark Ferruga has now come to realize that there is no vision of what to do with a soldier after 45 years of leaving the system. It is difficult for me to take this debate seriously and honestly, if we Members now find that this vision is not available, and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army states that it will have the possibility or overtime within the Morse system or another state authority, or the overqualification for another job, three years paid, plus retirement, or stimulation for the employer, if hired, five years of payment of contributions, while having a retirement. Now I ask myself seriously, respected colleagues and colleagues – and my colleague, former professor would probably say, dear students, before the exam helps if you read – whether we sincerely want to help the Slovenian Army or we really want to go to a pre-election show. Because if Mark is, your sincere concern about what will happen after the 45th year, how can you not read what is written in this marriage if you are so genuinely concerned? And I am now concerned that this whole debate has been declared a bad orchestra, a really bad show, and that two important laws that would improve our status, status, position of soldiers and the military are due to a public presentation of opinions that could have been a month ago. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u41	Mr Matjaž Han has the floor to prepare Mr Primož Hainz and Mag. Branko Grimes. Mr. Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Because of the public, thanks to people in Slovenia thank God there is no extraordinary situation. Slovenia is a safe country and there are elections before Slovenia and this is why today's debate is about this. Of course, this debate about the Slovenian Army has been on the wallpaper of the National Assembly for some time now, because this is one good basis for us to be able to deal with each other and somehow convince each other who is the greater patriot or who is the smaller patriot. I am absolutely in favour of the fact that the Slovenian Armed Forces as the foundation of our country are not profaned in public and that we treat it and its name with respect. Without the Slovenian Army, without the Territorial Defence, without the then militia, we would not have gained our independence, and no one in this National Assembly has the right not to acknowledge to everyone that they were fighting for something good at the time. And then you know that both the Territorial Defence and the then militia have made the most of us to be independent today and to live in a single European country. I am in favour of talking to you in this national assembly, I am in favour of solving problems, but we also have a look ahead to what we can do. Today, of course, some SMC colleagues can say what previous governments have done wrong, what the then government of President Borut Pahor has done, how it has reduced funds. My dears, you have no idea what the situation was like in 2008, when every day the company went bankrupt, when hundreds of people lost their jobs every day. And today you imagine that you would not have reacted to me and would have said, no, no, the Slovenian Armed Forces, and so on should be given to me, but not to social services. I mean, where do you live? That's the first one. Secondly, thank God that they are writing magnetograms in this National Assembly so that we may be able to evaluate your discussions in a little while; not so long, perhaps in just a few months, your discussions, what you're saying. And when I said thank God that there are magnetograms, just a few facts – because the SDS also tell us that we have done the most harm to the Social Democrats for the Slovenian Army, that we have been cutting funds. Just one piece of data, so cute that I found today. Amendment to the 2012 budget balance of the Republic of Slovenia Under this amendment were signed SDS, DL, SLS, Desus and Nova Slovenija. You made two amendments; one for four million, the money would be transferred to the Ministry of Education. And you know where they'd take him? Slovenian troops, 4 million. When there was no money. The same, amendment, the Ministry of Education, Science and Culture again; 1 million hundred, the same signatories. Do you know where they'd take him? The Slovenian army. These are the amendments to let you know the 2012 budget rebalancing. But I don't see it because I understand that when you rule, you decide how and how you allocate the resources you have. And it's hard to listen to the obvious that we've always been downsizing. If that were the case, then Minister Katič would not have fought daily in the government – and he could have been earlier, even because of other parties, adopted this law – to increase funds. Not to say what the minister was in 2012 – I know which minister he was, although he was then the minister of Nova Slovenije – said: “We will reduce by 5% the salary, we will make a weaker army.” And the fact that both the Slovenian Army and the civil part of the Ministry of Defence must share the fate or consequences of the real economic situation was a statement he made at that time. That's when Secretary Hoys said it. I just want to say one thing: when they tell us – the government of Borut Pahor, the government of Janez Janša, the government of Alenka Bratušek – that we were reducing funds; there was simply no money. And I'm also not quite sure that both marriages will save everything and that they are the most ideal, but these two marriages must be adopted with two thirds. These two laws are also a compromise between the position, the opposition, and above all between the professions. And you know, in the army alone, they're not happy with this law. But surely, if these two laws were to be adopted by the end of the term, we would have a little bit of a fix to the situation of the soldiers, the system and, in general, the sacredness of our Slovenian army. We'd fix it. And of course, if there's ever gonna be much more money, I'm also willing to make this money smart for the Slovenian Army. Wait, this exercise at Poček So I'm not going to speculate whether she was politically motivated or whether the soldiers wanted to fight some of the rights somehow. The fact is that the public will know – this assessment was given not by Nat's generals, but not by Nat's generals sitting there assessing how our soldiers fly from one end to the other; this assessment was made by Slovenian soldiers themselves, the people themselves who make up more than just a soldier. Whether it's smart or not, I wasn't in the military, but I would never tell you that I have a bad army, I would never say I have a bad shooter in football. [[…]] I don't get it. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, I don't get it, Jelka, I really don't understand what the saying is to myself. You have to show yourself to be something more if you're proud. And I think everyone wearing a Slovenian uniform is proud. So I believe that this debate in this National Assembly may not bring a solution – because we need political will to do this solution and then we will not get it during the elections, but we need to know that – and if not, it will bring some awareness that we need the Slovenian Army. And unlike the Left, we think we need it because safety is not self-evident. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u43	Ms Andrej Katič, Minister for Defence, has the floor. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u44	Yes, thank you. Dear Members and Members! During this term of office we had 62 urgent meetings of the Defence Committee, during my term of office 53, 20 regular meetings of the Defence Committee, during my term of office 17, 3 extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly, and at all three spoke the President of the Republic. We have prepared systemic solutions – a new Law on Defence and a new Law on Service in the Slovenian Army. Interdepartmental coordination was required and I do not accept the criticism of the coalition Members here, why we have not come to Parliament before and why such solutions are before us as they are. However, I suppose we should know them because we have spoken about this a number of times; I have said numbers, both here, on the Defence Committee and in Parliament, as well as in the coordination of the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. Please indicate whether you accept or do not accept them, so that the Ministry of Defence can begin to prepare or that other proposals that we also have, which are co-dependent on whether or not legislation is adopted. Now, once again, what we are proposing with the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army for Soldiers – for those who are most lacking in the Slovenian Army and who are the worst paid and who have a fixed-term working relationship. We propose a supplement to ban the sentence – €60 per month gross, the recipients would be around 6 thousand 400 – a crossover of education for those soldiers who have a 3-year school, about €40 gross and special awards at the conclusion or extension of a fixed-term contract of £756,95 we talk about the average gross salary in the Republic of Slovenia; if a contract is concluded for a 5-year period, at the conclusion of 1 average gross salary, then every year 1 more if a contract is concluded for 10 years, at the conclusion of 2 average gross wages and then every year 1 more. That would be all for a soldier with an IV. The rate of around EUR 2 000 956 per year gross more and for a soldier with a level of EUR 2 000 476.95 per year gross more. And with regard to soldiers after 45 years, we continue to follow a series of rights, trying to compensate for the consequences the system has on the social situation of its members and to provide them with adequate social security after the end of their careers. A soldier can first advance into the military career system and move on to a subordinate, allowing him to obtain a contract for an indefinite period of time. Secondly, the soldier has rights after the age of 45; the bill states that the State must provide him, it is said, with the right to an appropriate position in the Ministry or another state authority, for an indefinite period of time. At the same time, we have also proposed an amendment to other legislation, where it could be adopted to preserve all the progress he has made in the military. So it's not going to a substantial lower salary than it is now. Thirdly, if he decides not to accept the job offered himself, he has the right to be retrained for another profession that lasts for the next three years – says, after 45 years, three more years – and the right to leave, which is higher than in other areas; I am talking about 50% of the average salary in the last six months for each year of work. As a fourth law, it also provides for incentives for employers who employ soldiers in the form of a refund on the employer's contribution for five years of employment. As a fifth, a soldier can arrange to receive, in addition to his retirement, a one-time cash amount of the employer’s contributions — what I said earlier — and the contributions of a worker for a period of five years, which is charged from his salary in the last year. As I said, in this way we guarantee social security and also follow the objective that the age of the military does not increase in terms of everything. As I said, an overview of the level of education was proposed. It may not sound like the most beautiful “examination”, but it means that it is being trained, that it is being educated, and that it performs the same tasks as a soldier with a V degree of education, that it can be redistributed and elevated, that we do not do injustice, to the status of a soldier, to the rank of a lieutenant. There's about 750 soldiers like that. This second measure, as I have said before – this is said to be an upgrade to the special monetary reward – would not only be given to those who would be reinstated into the system, but also to those who are already in the system. In this way, of course, we want to encourage soldiers to come – mostly soldiers in the Slovenian Army – to remain in the Slovenian Army and those who are also in the Slovenian Army. That's all I wanted in this debate that was about the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor to prepare the mags. Branko Grims and Mr. Uroš Prikl. Mr. Hainz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I will begin by agreeing with the President of the State in the part where he said that we should first give an assessment of the threat and then carefully update all institutions of the national security system. As far as the threat assessment is concerned, of course, I don't think that's a big problem here. In fact, I think that the military or all defence systems must be constantly so arranged that, as we once said, tomorrow's war, we work in peace. But this is some kind of password that I don't think has survived yet, and the army, of course, is what we need. That is why, of course, I do not see the great problem of the threat here, nor do I think that this threat is so radically different now, because I think that these threats are also encouraged for some other reason. But good, it's always good to update, so you know what historic moment you're in. As for what our army is like, I have already said here once, and today I am sure that this army is not as bad as it was said in these assessments, despite the fact that it was written by the military and despite the fact that it is repeated by the President of the State. [[…]] In fact, I don't remember in history – at least from the gun forward – that the Slovenian Army would be weak. Slovenians have never been considered a hero if you want, and Slovenians have always been very disciplined, which is very important in the military. I see no reason for this to be different at this point. One picture from a certain point of view, politically, if you want – Wait, abused, because I think we all know exactly where the dog taco prays, if I may say so – of course it can't spoil this picture substantially. Indeed, in the peace of the military, you can never measure exactly what is valid and what is not. Never. The military has always had military exercises in history, but when the war began, everything collapsed or it could have been completely different. I think we need to be realistic about these things and know, of course, that there is one in peace and the other, of course, the situation in war. However, as regards the modernisation of all institutions, I would like to say that I am one of those who believes that all the institutions of the security system must act evenly and evenly be updated; of course it is the military, it is the police and, I don't know, you have all left the Navy; it seems to me to be an important factor not to say, an increasingly important factor in our defence system. That's why we need to know the following. We've got [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I would ask, Comrade Marjan, a friend of course we are in the NATO alliance, so we must have for NATO so much and so much power available and this army must be well equipped, well paid if you want, and of course trained. [[…]] [[…]] Well, it has to be arranged here as well, how long they work, how long they work with them, when they retire or when they go into redistribution; I wouldn't talk about these details, it's a global assessment, I still think maybe 45 years can't be uniform for all categories and [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Then I apologize. Basically, these are details that don't actually burden me, all of which can be adopted by one law or if it hasn't already been adopted. But I still think we should use where we've always been best. This is that with a small professional army we could still organise the rest in the form of some form of recruitment, so that any boy, a girl who would like to learn basic military skills: handling weapons, command hierarchy, relationships, RBK, first aid, assistance in natural disasters, cyber security and so on. That, I think, would be very important. So we have a tradition in the partisan army, that's how the Territorial Defence worked, and so did the police, which Matjaž mentioned earlier, at the time of our independence, when we went to the independent country. I think it would be important and, of course, in this way anyone would because if you want real domestic defence, when something is needed at some point, then it is important that everyone knows something small, but not everyone else except those professional soldiers “canonfuter”, as we once said or would call it Schweik. [[…]] So I think we've got ourselves a country, we've got democracy, but one thing and the other is not a state, we have to defend it every day. In particular, I stress democracy, and it is not by itself, and I fear that some attempts at militarisation are tiny across this border and I am not most impressed by such ways of thinking. Of course, while what is fundamental to me is that we take into account the social structure of the population, that people need to know what they are defending. And, of course, I think that at this time of globalisation we have to worry about Slovenia, language, culture, science, so what we say is at risk in this great globalisation that is happening to us today, but if we want to exist as a nation and a country for a long time, of course we have to count on it. Of course, I know that at the same time, and that's clearly that it costs, and we have to figure it out in some way. So, what colleague Janez Janša said is that the human factor is most important, of course, there is no doubt here, and in fact, it is based on all of my debate. Of course, in that other part that he mentioned, how some of them were, and then there he found one couple of percent that weren't for self-reliance, and I think that's unreal. I think in the global world, the numbers that were so fascinatingly high that we were all satisfied, everyone was thrilled. At the same time, I have to say; we had partisans and patriots, but in the end we were all happy to have won with the Yugoslav army and with the allies Anglo-Americans and Russians, and we were all on the right side, if I may say so. In short, they are never all for, but it is a global one, it is where the majority is, and of course most have decided to defend the Slovenian nation at that time, and I think something similar would happen today. But of course, I have to say one critical thing about the army, because elections are close if you want. But I have to be honest here, too, even though I think the whole session is devoted more or less to it. In fact, we have a fortune in the army, too. They're soldiers. And if it happens to us that the Vrhnika military station gets for the archive of the Ministry of Public Administration; one of the most famous military barracks in Slovenia that could be, I don't know, a home for the elderly, we had the idea of having a hospital there, a central hospital for the demented or something like that, and we the archive of the Ministry of Public Administration. But well, I don't think it's a dark day, but I can't get past such details. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u47	The word has magic. Branko Grims, prepare Mr Uroš Prikl and Mr Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u48	Good-bye to all of you! Danger. The risk assessment is necessary. Now I'm asking you, ladies and gentlemen, who's here to make someone crazy? Why are we talking in this way today about the defence of the Republic of Slovenia as we can today? Because the threat is obvious, presentable and understandable to every citizen, every citizen. So today we are talking in a completely different way than we are talking about the same subject in the same composition some ten years ago. Then I will bet that it would be unknowingly more those who would say, as only the Left is said today, that we do not actually need armies anymore. Of course, things have changed, ladies and gentlemen. The international environment has changed, the understanding of reality has changed. For us, for Europe, for everyone who lives in this part of the world. Illegal migration, which has opened the eyes of Europeans to realize the real dangers that threaten them and that have actually arisen and accumulated for a long time, earlier with legal migrations, by growing the system of radical Islam across Europe and its metastases and then a wave of illegal migrants who suddenly opened their eyes to everyone and everyone. And then taharrush gamea, the most disgusting form of violence, mass violence against women, humiliation of women, violence against children, murder, terrorism, everything that's followed in the last two years. Today, of course, the issue of the military is where it used to be, where it was, in fact, all of history. But you know that today's debate is an excellent reflection of ancient wisdom, even from ancient Greece, which says: “To God and to the soldiers we only think with joy when we are in severe distress.” And that's exactly what's going on. That is why today we are discussing the situation in the Slovenian Army, because the Slovenian Army, you all know how much we need it. What has proved to be true in the context of the migrant crisis? As long as only the police were at the border – it is now not written or spoken of, to refresh the memory, ladies and gentlemen – the police were bartering by the migrants with bottles, trying to cut, throwing stones at what was going on down at the border. When soldiers arrived – only a few armored men had to park and the army stood by – it became a blissful peace, suddenly everyone obeyed, suddenly everyone understood the commands, suddenly everything was fine and orderly, because migrants in the field of radical Islam were afraid only of the military. They still have the police as a symbol of corruption, and they don't take it seriously and they're afraid of it. And just this little piece of reality we're living in. She's testifying about the moment we're talking about it. This crisis has solved something else. We can't rely on anyone, we can really rely on ourselves, and we just have to rely on ourselves if we want all children, women, every citizen, every citizen to be safe, that fundamental good without which everything else becomes meaningless. Security, which is increasingly the foundation of development. Today the richest layer migrates massively from Sweden, once the concept of the richest country in the world, because there is no longer security because they opened borders to migrants – leftists have done so there for 30 years – today you have literally martial law there and people do not hope to go to the street at night, women do not hope to go to the bar alone. Is this the reality you want to live in? It was a mockery when a colleague who had taken the floor to let hundreds of thousands of migrants go to Slovenia said that there had been no serious consequences. Of course they weren't, because we warned them in time about what was going to happen. And from the beginning, this government and this coalition have been making a fool of each other. How many times I've listened to that, how you scare people. In my personal name, it flew. Then, after days, everything I predicted happened. And if we act in time, of course, security could provide much easier and much better and with much less questions than it is today. We could set up a timely fence, declare a border closure, along with Orbán, channel elsewhere; we should not stop it, we should not defend the whole of Europe, but we could defend Slovenia. And a similar situation is happening now that we're talking about the army. The defence of Slovenia is not only a soldier. This is the first one, of course. The news is, that Montenegrin proverb that says it doesn't win a weapon wins a soldier's heart. And the Slovenian soldier has certainly proved throughout history that he is a top soldier. We hear that a lot of times, and Slovenia is small and we don't need an army like this. Ladies and gentlemen, if you look through history, because you will not believe, some of the greatest battles in history, such as the battle against the Turks in Sisak, have been fought by Slovenian soldiers and Slovenian commanders. Some of the most important breakthroughs in history, such as the legendary breakout at Kobarid in World War I, were with the Slovenians in the first line of battle, then along with the Bavarians. That's a Slovenian soldier. And many times in history, this has proved to be true. So, Slovenians have what we need, we have patriotism, only patriotism has to become a value again, to fulfill those words that my grandfather, who was the Master's fighter, wrote in a note: "The soldier does not fight because he hates the one on the other hand, the true soldier fights because he loves those who are after him." This, ladies and gentlemen, is the basis of what we are talking about today. It is necessary to amend not two laws, as some have suggested. Just changing laws doesn't help if a general relationship doesn't change throughout society. And don't say that we haven't talked about this before in this House. Let's ask ourselves how real this is. In autumn 2015, on my proposal, my KNOVS Commission decided, unanimously at that time, to propose to the National Assembly and to the Government that it be recommended that security and defence policy be substantially changed and that more resources be allocated than before and that priority be given to it. This was practically adopted unanimously in the National Assembly as a recommendation. As I recall, without a single vote against, with more than a two-thirds majority of all. Police, the interior ministry is this, we have to say, to a large extent managed to achieve it. The police are better equipped today, it's strengthened, it's organized differently, there's certainly a lot to improve, but that other foundation, the pillar of statehood, the military, unfortunately, has stayed on the side. This isn't enough. Why not? I personally think that for a simple reason, because it does not prevail in all values of patriotism, when they make fundamental decisions, because some countries of Slovenia were not an intimate option and, of course, not the Slovenian Army. And they have been in power, which is a paradox, in Slovenia alone for almost 30 years the existence of Slovenia alone there for at least 25 years. It's about that kind of relationship. And then we wonder if there's a situation like this. Once again, it's not just material resources, far from that, it's the external appearance of what we're talking about today. It is a relationship to the military, to the soldiers, to the defence, to the patriotism as values, and to the values that all the presidents of the country of Slovenia have sworn to. In practice, however, when individual decisions were made, there were many more problems. From the moment of independence, when the defence budget was adopted as one majority vote — for all those who have forgotten it — to this day, of course, when the value of patriotism moves in every possible and impossible way. By offering false values, from LGBT to what I don't know, to when, on the other hand, some information is simply trying to conceal or diminish their meaning, so that people don't fully understand the reality in which they live or to understand it otherwise, wrong as this reality actually is and works. That is why it is trying to get off the Internet – not only is it unfortunately a Slovenian specialty – this is a problem that is increasingly a problem for the entire European Union – to remove certain documentary documents about what is going on where radical Islam wins. There are procedures, criminal proceedings against individuals just because they have shown, watch out, documents, documentary recordings, nothing else. The facts have been demonstrated and therefore criminal proceedings are under way against them. I'm sorry, when this starts happening, the community or individual country where this is happening is very sick. And in Slovenia we should say no. In many other ways, defense ability is undermined, and the atmosphere in society is changing. For example, one of them, who has now lived a little again in Slovenia, has unfortunately come to life, is the awakening of fear of weapons. And they're again preparing a new law that makes sportsmen wonder if we're all in the right mind here. Europe has already done some complete absurdity and is further sharpened here. I only hope that it will lie in the drawers and that it will never come forward, but that one such thing will come into the public, of course doing an atmosphere that is not good, which gives the wrong signal. But that signal, which should come from everyone today and everyone from here, is that we are aware that one value, which is the foundation of all, is the value of security, that we can only ensure security if we consistently respect the value of patriotism and if each decision is ours — and if it is two laws, a concrete definition of wages, which is also possible as a raise within the current system, if the Government would sincerely want to – is said when it comes to concrete actions when it comes to specific decisions that are consistent and all justified on the value of patriotism. Conscious that security and patriotism are values that are the only foundation for sustainable, stable development. And this is what Slovenia needs, ladies and gentlemen. We are obliged to give this to Slovenia. Security and development.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u49	Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mr Bojan Podkrajšek and Mr Janko Weber. Here, you have the word, Mr. Prickl.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Minister! Clearly, security is no longer a self-evident category or fact, today and at the moment. As a result, the question of whether or not we need the Slovenian Army is probably too much. The answer is: of course, we need the Slovenian Army. We probably don't need to be so sophisticated and armed as anyone at the headquarters of Command of NATO would expect. It is necessary to adapt the Slovenian Army to Slovenian and our situation, including social, financial, material and so on. But the fact is, and this seems essential to me, that in the Slovenian Army, which we are proud of, we need satisfied soldiers, we need soldiers who will wisely carry out their task both in peacetime and, God forbid, in war conditions. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Slovenian Army has approached, approached, and will approach many times, when it comes to natural things, so to speak, so to speak, so to speak, so to speak, so to speak, so to speak, so to speak, at sports events and so to speak. [[…]] The Slovenian army was not created by the independence of Slovenia; as for my taste, colleagues Grims, it dates back to the historic beginning of the Slovenian Army in World War I, probably even longer. Of course, he may have forgotten here to mention the victorious and famous XIV march. Divisions in Styria, and I could list here. Of course, I wish that in the future, however, such or other mistakes in the Slovenian Army should take place, that the manure, forgive the comparison that dirty laundry is not washed in front of the public, that members of the Slovenian Army should not be ashamed of, as has already been said, that we are proud of both members of the military and of the institution and of the organization as a whole, and that we should continue to be proud in Slovenia. Maybe just a sentence, two, how I feel about these recommendations to get soldiers out of the public sector. I think that's unacceptable. It'll cause a domino effect. The police will be here any minute. There'll probably be teachers here next. In short, it's a reckless move for my taste. As for my taste, I have heard from the Minister in a few minutes, because you are obviously still a short time to conclude, these two regulations — the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army — bring what I have been talking about. They bring some supplements, some additional ratings, some, if you want, also in some way intervention measures, which will increase the material position of soldiers in the Slovenian Army, provide social security for both him and his family members. For him, the matter will not end at the age of 45 when he will no longer be a soldier, but he will be able to continue his career in the civilian part of Morse or in any other body in the composition and so on. Of course I'm here because it's not nearly my profession, I'm not going to drop in those hybrid forms, but the spare compositions; you're smart enough, you're professional enough, I see, even in the National Assembly. But you're not all acting alone. A huge professional staff is at the defence ministry itself, the General Staff and so on, so that I see no reason why these two laws should not be put to rest after a long and continuous period, and at least in this mandate they will have this broad discussion, debate and, of course, accept them in the next lineup, whoever will be in the defence ministry's department. And in the end, to conclude and honestly believe what President Pahor said: “Experiences teach us that we knew Slovenians about important issues also strongly, but we managed to make the right decision in time.” I think that this quote, this thought of him, should be taken into account in time to cool some hot heads and do everything necessary for the benefit of the Slovenian Army and Slovenian soldiers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u51	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber and Mr Pojbič. Mr. Underpants, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u52	Dear Vice-President of this National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Speaking of the safety of our country, it's certainly first of all the military. Today we have also listened to some of our colleagues and colleagues, whether this meeting is necessary or not, better not to say it behind closed doors. But in this mandate that I can talk about, a lot of things go out for a while to come to this national assembly. I'm also the one who had a few months before I made the most of the unpleasant in the previous army. Of course, with great joy and with all my responsibility, I have been in the war for Slovenia for quite some time, so I would like to say this, above all, that I will not speak to myself without some basis. [[…]] As some doubted this independence of the Republic of Slovenia, they doubted the Slovenian Army as a result. Whether this army is needed for Slovenia, we are talking about 1990, 1991, whether we need it or not. Of course, all the thanks to all those who had so much wisdom at the time and were, of course – not these keys were the previous keys – they discussed and also pressed the key for the Slovenian Army. My friend Grimes was talking about security. I'm sure he's a much bigger expert than I am or anyone here in this room. I'm not going to repeat it now. But there have always been periods in Slovenia alone, when we have slightly forgotten about this safety or put it aside. Of course, when we look back today at this mandate; there have been many meetings in this national assembly, many warnings and, of course, a great deal of opposition from the coalition, that we are overreacting with some of the security segments. But time certainly showed that these warnings were in place. Let me touch the Slovenian Army. Probably the Slovenian Army can buy the latest weapons, we have already heard that today, but if there is no Slovenian soldier, surely this modern weapon will not have, will not get its purpose or will be devoted to the empty. Many times outside this national assembly, I talk to a relative, a neighbor, or the environment from which I come. But you know, today we speak like that from the left or right, and a lot of things the president of the country said, what should be, but unfortunately it's not. The point is that we, all 90 Members and Members who were elected to this National Assembly, would expect our Slovenian soldier to risk his life in the service as well and that he was paid 40% less than the average Slovenian salary I think that is the essence of the problem. [[…]] As I know the governance system of this country, I expect you will, of course, be two more months away and we will forget this important segment, or those who run this government will forget, but the damage in the Slovenian Army will certainly deepen in the segment so that every day fewer soldiers will be left behind. Maybe for closure. When we talk about this reference to four-year-olds, from 2014 to 2018, of course, we have done everything to keep Slovenia from being a tyrant, and we will be in court, and we no longer have it. We are working hard to be the best in agriculture, and every day two farms are falling apart. We are working hard to ensure that arbitration is respected, the border with Croatia, and we are in court. We've been saying this afternoon that we've done everything for the Slovenian Army, and we find that every day our soldiers are leaving the barracks. Is that a job? Is that a job? I think it's a bad job that this job is done very badly. A few days ago we saw new shoes to be worn by Slovenian soldiers; very positively, it was said to be a Slovenian manufacturer, said that these shoes were of quality. I don't doubt that at all, but I felt like we were showing new shoes to someone on the street in an exhibition they couldn't buy. I am firmly convinced as a member of this national council that until we change our attitude towards the Slovenian Army, to the Slovenian soldier and until the country of the Republic of Slovenia pays the Slovenian soldier fairly and properly, wears him and dresses him, these Slovenian soldiers will leave the barracks daily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I don't know if we really read or don't know if we're cheating. My colleague Podkórodská is concerned that the soldier is poorly paid, in a poor social situation and wonders what we did and what we could do and why it was not done. At the same time, on that side you are blocking the adoption of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, which would – please look into the law, really please look into the law this time – allow the soldier with the IV. the rate of payment of the salary charged at Stage V in order to obtain an allowance for the prohibition of strike, in order to obtain at the time of employment and then each year one additional gross salary paid and, respected colleague, in order to have the opportunity to use a military apartment plus the possibility of redemption. If this does not improve the situation and if we have done nothing about it, my dear fellow, I do not know what we do together in the same assembly for four years. And please, if what you declare and speak and you are concerned about social status, allow the adoption of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army and stop blocking these solutions. Please be honest with me for once. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Mahnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u56	Thank you, Vice President. One thing I would point out.The replica is if you're misunderstood, but someone on behalf of the proposer can't perform; it can be me, it can be Mr. Horvat, it can be the minister. If I'm misunderstood, then I'll give the replica to tell you what I was misunderstood about, but if I don't agree with what the speaker says on the other side, I don't have the right to a replica. And that's what happened the second time. Follow the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u57	Yeah, right. Procedurally, please, sir.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I didn't break the rules of procedure in any way. My colleague Podkoršek understood me more than obviously wrongly that this coalition and this government have done everything possible to improve the social situation of the soldiers. And because he did not understand my debate, which was also addressed by the President of the Republic's opening statement, it is my duty to explain to him where he misunderstood me and he misunderstood me at the point, which he himself said that this government did not do enough to prevent this minister from doing enough. He did not understand and, therefore, discussed in a manner such as by hampering the adoption of the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, in order to prevent the improvement of the social situation, organisational structure and advancement of the Slovenian Armed Forces. And, of course, he misunderstood what my basic debate was about, which is what we are discussing today – the response of the President of the Republic, the Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces. I have this right to a replica, Madam President, just as everyone in this National Assembly has the right to know what we have invested in the National Assembly. To obstruct procedurally, this is the right of a Member. To stall, this is the right of the chairman of some committees to take it. But we can suspend democracy and live in parallel worlds that are not real. That's possible, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Scoberne, thank you very much. We in this assembly – of course, if we went strictly, then it is even possible to interpret as Mr Mahnič said – we had four years of practice that if someone did not understand substantively, he could explain, and we did so. That's what happened this time. Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnič was asked first of all.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u60	Thank you. I think there's a difference, and I'm going to keep doing that when I say, "No, Jan, you're wrong because things are the way they are, and so on and so on and you didn't say it right." And that has the right to a replica, that's probably what we all agree on in here. But if Jan says: The laws will improve the situation in the Slovenian Army, and Bojan says: "The laws will not improve the situation in the Slovenian Army, I do not think he has the right to replica, because then anyone could replicate for everyone. The opposition MPs have all the coalition and coalition backs to the opposition because we are on opposite shores, not only here, but also to other things. In short, I want to hear your interpretation of how you explain your replica instrument. Can we all now replicate them all if we generally disagree with them, or should we address them, take their words out of context, misinterpret them, that the one to whom the speaker then speaks may then have the replica? That's all I want to know, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The one who has already discussed comes to this place where, of course, the interpretation can be as I explained it earlier. Mr. Grimes, please. Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u62	Thank you. First of all, I would suggest that you explain to Mr Škobernet exactly what procedural proposals are and what replicas are. And with the justification given to you by the Rules of Procedure. Then, to explain to him the business, procedurally, something else — the Defence Act and this legislation, which he has always been vehemently speaking about, is not progressing so slowly because you would have been hindered by the opposition, but because in the governmental ranks you failed to fully harmonise in time and therefore this legislation did not go forward. If the government coalition doesn't work and you don't know how to coordinate and talk in the government, don't point your finger at the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude this discussion. Mrs. Andreja Katič, please. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u64	A public presentation of opinions could be at the end of January. Once again, I would like to say that, with the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, we are proposing a soldier with an IV. The rate of about EUR 2 000 956 gross per year is higher, and for a soldier with a level V, about EUR 2 000 476 gross more. And I never said we'd done everything. That's not true. Once again, I appeal to this – say whether or not legislation is adopted, so that if it is not adopted, the ministry can continue with all other procedures. This is all I ask all this time, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič and Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u66	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! In the context of today's debate on the recommendations made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the situation in the Slovenian Army and in the context of the request for the opinion of the President of the Republic of Slovenia on this issue, I would first like to point out one expectation that I have somehow waited for or had for the President of the Republic as Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces, and this is a measure that has no financial implications. I expected him to make it very clear that, as Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces, he expects the National Assembly to adopt a law allowing him to appoint the Chief of Staff himself and that the General Staff is also directly subordinated to the Commander-in-Chief. This has no financial implications, but it also has a very clear hierarchy of command and responsibility for the situation in the Slovenian Army. I have not heard this, but this is one of the urgent changes that we must accept in Slovenia if we are to establish order in the Slovenian Army. The second thing that worried me about the President of the Republic is that he claimed or said the following, the Slovenian army has about as long a tradition as the Slovenian state has. If you take away history from the people, you take away the people's future. At the very least, it is necessary to point out that the Slovenian Army has its historical tradition in the Maistro fighters, that it also has its extradition in the tigers, that it has its important extradition in the partisan Slovenian army, which was actually Slovenian and also defended the liberated territory, Slovenian. Its status changed after the liberation, when this power was transferred to the Yugoslav army, but we established the Territorial Defence and National Protection in Slovenia; both were the basis for the successful exercise of independence and then in fact had our Slovenian Army in the independent country. But from this Slovenian Army, in a separate country, we have moved from the recruitment system to a professional system and in this professional system we have identified a soldier as a public servant. This is a complete degradation of the security system again and, in the framework of the activities undertaken in the resolution of the financial crisis, we have practically halved the resources of the defence system in the military. But respected proponents and also all who supported the entry of a fiscal rule into the constitution – when you take half of the assets of the Slovenian Army and the security system and enter a fiscal rule into the constitution, you have cemented a poor situation in the defence system, both in the military and in the judicial system. And that's what happened. To resolve this system, the security system must be exempted from the fiscal rule. Furthermore, if we are to save the security of Europe in which Slovenia is also, this security system must also be excluded from the Maastricht criteria. In fact, it is not possible for Natu to promise 2% of the GDP of the defence expenditure product and, on the other hand, the Maastricht criteria limit the increase in public expenditure. In fact, the euro area countries are limited to building a successful security system and it is necessary to decide whether to give up Maastricht, the Maastricht criteria or the euro in order to build the security of our own country. In today's attempt to make an important contribution – a billion and a half in training, to the acquisition of equipment – it is not the equipment for the security of the Republic of Slovenia, but the equipment needed in NATO. Then where is the security of the country? However, this is practically not discussed and we do not guarantee you, because somehow it feels that this system of command, as in Yugoslavia, has been transferred to the Yugoslav army, has been transferred to NATO. It's a complete misunderstanding. It is necessary to establish a fully clear command structure – from the commander of the defence force, the appointment of Chief of Staff, then the submission of the General Staff to the commander of the defence forces, and then we will be able to talk about an effective defence system. And without that, Your Honor, there will be no serious movement. And I hope that in the future this will be one of the important points I have tried to point out today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean Mahnic, the motioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Vice President. It was heard, let's stop mumbling the Slovenian Army. This meeting is a bad light-throwing session, which is why we're going to have additional members and members, and the new ones aren't coming. I cannot agree with this, but I agree that it is the scoffing of the Slovenian Army by the ruling policy. We know who led the Ministry of Defence in recent years, and we know who led the Ministry of Finance and we know who the Prime Minister was when it was most taken. If we let this go, you have heard concrete proposals and concrete measures on what needs to be done. According to General Geder, you have them in our recommendations, also by Mr Janez Janša. Tomorrow at the government meeting, the matter of solution and frowning can be over, so political, media and so much more, if it were in your interest. But since you're not, this frowning will continue if we can even call public warning of a bad situation. Let's start at the beginning. What does the Resolution say about the national security strategy? »The defence policy of the Republic of Slovenia will also be directed towards ensuring the defence capabilities of the country needed to provide national defence in the collective defence and security system. Conceptually, organisationally and in a coordinated manner, the development of these capacities will be adapted to the need to respond to military and non-military sources of national security threats. In doing so, it will be fundamentally guided by strengthening the quality of defence capacity at the expense of their quantity and by taking on a proportionate share of the burden on collective defence and security.” The Resolution on the National Security Strategy then emerges from the Defence Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, which defines in the defence field as one fundamental interest the appropriate degree of defence capacity of the State and the readiness of defence capabilities, thereby ensuring the highest possible degree of national security of the Republic of Slovenia as well as the security and freedoms of its inhabitants. As another fundamental objective, it defines the realization of the common defence interests and the international obligations of the State in the defence-military area within NATO and the European Union. The three highlights are the following, highlighted by the defence strategy under one of the objectives. Ensure the defence capacity of the State by developing adequate defence capabilities to effectively exercise its interests in the defence field and by using defence capabilities to support other subsystems of the national security system of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to carry out national defence in connection with the collective defence and security system as well as to fulfil the accepted international obligations of the Republic of Slovenia, adequate national defence capacity will be ensured. The defence capacity of the Republic of Slovenia will be based on further enhancement of the quality of the defence capacity of the country and on the account of their quantity. The development and transformation of defence capabilities will focus on their flexibility, their ability to combine and co-use, their rapid adaptation to the situation and the achievement of an appropriate degree of connectivity, usability and preparedness. Within the established system of education, training and defence training, the human resources policy will be focused on developing the appropriate scope and appropriate quality of staff. In determining the size and structure of the human resources resources, we will be based on the threat to the national security of the Republic of Slovenia, the defence capacity needed to achieve the defence interests and objectives of the State, the success in obtaining, developing and maintaining the appropriate personnel and the availability of financial resources. The system of acquisition, retention and departure of military personnel will be enhanced by ensuring the quality of personnel and the planned scope and structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces at the appropriate selection. These are some of the highlights of the Defence Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia and the Resolution on the Strategy for National Security. I chose these on purpose because everyone is talking about the human resources potential that our defence system must have if we want it to work. And the personnel are those who are certainly the red thread of this debate today, or how to strengthen the Slovenian Armed Forces, but first of all to stop the trend of departures from the Slovenian Army. There were 342 arrivals in 2010 and 2011 and then 296. Intersection – a drastic decrease in arrivals after we rotate around 170 to 200 after all subsequent years and an increase in the number of departures from 2013 when we move between 300 and 400 to date. In order to have 8,000 members of the Slovenian Army and 2,000 members of the reserve, this is what the documents, strategies, resolutions and should follow. The professional army is somehow governed by the rule that it must have 50% of the contractual reserve. At the time when the strategy was adopted and it was discussed what the Slovenian Army would be like when we moved from a recruitment system to a professional completion system, it was decided that, given the circumstances in the world – we can say, the absence of conflicts where more countries would be involved – does not go to the number 4,000, but that we have 2,000 members and members of the Slovenian Army reserve. Today we see that we do not reach one another or the other. But the big problem I think will be when we see what the real state of the contractual reserves is, what will be the real situation and what will be the real numbers of those who will actually respond. Less than 40% of the response was when the contractual reserve was called in during the crisis. If I stop by the Secretary of Defense and her position first. I can agree with it and answer the question: Since the Slovenian Army has withdrawn more than 40% of the funds, were the measures appropriate and proportionate? The answer is no, they weren't. Show me another resort that suffered such a severe loss, a little 10% of the funding less during the crisis. So when we listen today to how one, the other, the third is guilty of what the situation is like and, of course, they were just carrying the burden of the crisis — let us look at the real numbers. Let's look at the state of the budgets before the crisis and what the budgets are on the various ministries today, and we will see that some have not only paid a share of the crisis, but they are still paying for it today. And from this point of view, the question arises if the Minister claims – and here I support her, as well as President Pahor – that we need a stable and, above all, stable source of funding for the defence system, or specifically for the Slovenian Army, I wonder why you proposed only EUR 30 million per year. The President of the Government and the Minister of Finance are opinions, the military has won as much as she wanted, and they are right. At the time when we discussed the medium-term defence programme of the Republic of Slovenia on the Defence Committee, this question was why you are no longer, as I would call it, perspective. Why don't you want more? You could then say, if you wrote down there, the Slovenian Army has to give 60, 70, 80 million euros a year more and if the Government has failed to do so, you would say, here, we have prepared a plan, we know how much money we need to implement this plan, the government does not, the Minister of Finance does not, the Minister of the Interior opposes, the President of the Government does not give money to the defence system or within this Slovenian Army, the money goes elsewhere. And you could say who is actually responsible now that the situation is not improving or that the funds are not increasing as they were rising when there was economic growth as it is today. When the Law on Financing Development Programmes in the Slovenian Army was adopted in 2006 for EUR 720 million, the maximum should not be more than EUR 150 million per year. And quite quickly, that law also ceased to be respected, and here I wonder what the purpose of adopting laws is, where we commit something and, of course, do not do it ourselves. That law was passed in the National Assembly. After two years, the law was eloquently violated. And when the Minister reported that 200 million euros were paid in 2015 and 222 million euros in 2017, I am interested in how this is possible or how money is shared, if there were 7 000 55 members in 2015 and almost 200 fewer, and in 2017 the money went 22 million euros more, and wages are not improving as it should. Because we have a problem not only that the soldiers are leaving, but above all the problem is that there are no new ones. And only by stimulating wage policy could this be resolved. There was a lot of talk about these two laws that we already have in the National Assembly. These two laws only prove that the whole matter of solving the whole problem has been dealt with in the wrong way; you did it in the end. It must have been a good move you made, Strategic Defense Review. This has shown you, after many years, what the real situation is. But what would be the correct sequence? And you don't have to be, I don't know what to do by pure farming logic. The house begins to be built on the foundation and would be based on a white book in the field of defence, as some other countries have accepted the white books in the field of defence; Slovenia has already adopted a white book in what area. First, we should discuss, define all these threats, as the President said, although there is a problem here – some aggressive Russian politics, the attack on Ukraine, the accession of Crimea, the eastern part are considered a threat, some do not, some consider hybrid warfare a threat, others do not, some see migrants as a threat, others do not. In short, the unification here is of course tiring, but also with foreign experts I think that if you asked General Frank Gorenec, the American General of Slovenian Roots, then General Edwards, the Commander of the National Guard of Colorado, who knows Slovenia, who knows the Slovenian system, if you asked any other foreign experts and would sit with our Slovenians, we would get a quality product that would be called the White Paper. [[…]] Once we have this white book done, we could go to work on documents such as the long-term programme for the development of the Slovenian Armed Forces by a certain year, if you want, 2030, on the basis of this also medium-term defence programmes and so on. And the laws come to an end. The laws come to an end after a strategy is drawn up, after clearly defined goals, after we know what we want, how we want, and above all how we want to achieve it. Then we write laws – about defence, about service in the Slovenian Army, about any other. Because I believe that the law, as now proposed — the Law of Defence — is too extensive, too long, too many articles. In no law does any state write direct numbers in euros, none because the situation is changing, but a two-thirds majority is needed and you will take advantage of it and then look for some numbers to change. And that's the stage after which it is now. You are, if I look, after the Strategic Review of Defence has been done, you have started at the end and you are products that should be made on the basis of serious analyses – but here serious analysis, not what the President of the Government says, I need to analyse, I need to consult and so on, serious analysis and based on these analyses, strategic documents are made, and then it goes on to do what is written there. [[…]] And to say that these two laws will save everything, that they are key to improving the situation in the Slovenian Army – this is what Minister Jan Škoberne says – is all political. As a politician, they say the law will improve the situation. As a politician, the law will not improve the situation. We can agree with one another, we can agree with another, but if we have to agree with someone else, but this is the military profession we have in Slovenia, we have good, excellent. And one of these military professions is General Alan Geder, the current head of the General Staff of the Slovenian Army, who himself said that the law of the state would not improve and that is enough for me to trust the defence expert because we are politicians. And if then on the other hand they say unions that say Mr. Duck, that's what I mean. [[…]] For example, with all due respect to Comrade Dobovšek; when he is invited to a television station and written, he is a security expert. If you are, when you're in politics, you're a politician and where you go, that's where you're a politician. There's no place to represent yourself as an expert, somewhere in the role of politics; when you're active in politics, you're a politician. And if I come back. General Geder represents the military profession, and I believe him because he has grounds because he has analyses to know what the real situation is. Those who have drafted the laws politically say that they are good, we who would otherwise say that they are not as they might be. But when you ask those who represent soldiers – and since the Social Democrats are now hand in hand with the unions to overthrow their own government, the President of the Government, the Party of the Modern Centre and so on, you probably agree that the unions who represent the employees, at least their membership – and then these unions say for the first time that they were not involved enough that they did not have a word that their proposals were not taken into account, then we can believe them. In short, then you have an opinion here about both the laws of those who represent soldiers and military professions on the one hand and the different opinions of politicians on the other. And it's up to each individual to decide for himself who to trust. By being critical of this, we are critical of what the military profession has said. If the military profession said, these laws would improve the situation, these laws bring a positive trend to the Slovenian Army, Madam Minister, then these laws would be adopted today. However, because you have brought two laws into the National Assembly, which are more than obvious in view of what the Legislative and Legal Service has said, how you have seen the coalition MPs, and given that a public debate of 10 votes and 3 against has been put to the vote, see, this is none of our business. And since we have taken matters more seriously, we are just about those issues where the differences, where the concerns, where the Legal and Legal Service even wrote to you, were that the solutions you're proposing there were unconstitutional, were more responsible than you and we sent an order to the Research Department with precisely these questions to make a comparison. That's why we have the Research Department. And if I am not mistaken, Dr. Trček once said that we should give more resources to have more people and even more quality analyses, and I agree with that, and I also believe that Members are under-utilising the Research and Documentation Sector, the Research Department, as it is officially called in the National Assembly, because they are preparing quality studies, quality analyses, which then greatly assist you in the legislative process. And that's why it was done, Madam Secretary. However, there will be a public presentation of opinions and a vote on these laws. But when the law is passed, then adopt some strategies and all you have already done is like you first put the spruce on top of the roof, even though the roof is not yet, and then you would go build the foundations of the house. You've done this the wrong way. We should do what Mr German said last week when we were on national television: the next government will have to do what we want to do to settle down and agree on a defence policy – whether it is the middle battalion fighting group or, as Dr. Trček said, the helicopter squadron we need, we will need it, and it is probably one of those that is useful both for the primary and secondary tasks of the Slovenian Armed Forces. And you heard how old the helicopters are. Two years from now – we have already warned about this in 2016 – not just helicopters, including other vehicles and so on, but we know that the Slovenian Army fleet is 60% complete. Once again, you are doing things the way you should if you want the situation in the Slovenian Army to improve. The minister also said: “General Alan Geder should propose appropriate solutions. I trust General Geder." Everything's fine and fine. Now, Madam Minister, I am interested in what you will do or do to ensure that what General Geder proposes is also achieved. He had a press conference today, he made concrete proposals and solutions. In particular, the Slovenian Army should exit the single payroll system. Please define yourself to this, although I already know your definition: Yes, we cannot do this, because then everything will collapse. Yes, then apparently you see the Slovenian Army elsewhere than you see the leadership of the army. And I believe the leadership sees her on the right side. Forward, long-term and stable provision of resources for the military. I am really interested in why you did not propose in this mandate a law similar to that adopted in 2006. As Minister we should go to the prime minister, we should go to the finance minister: this law must go through. If you don't confirm that, I'm resigning as Secretary of Defense because there's no point in me doing anything. In this way, we would certainly have achieved something. But if they didn't, then we'd have a hard time finding the Secretary of Defense. Who would want to be if you don't have the support of a finance minister if you don't have the support of a government president and so on? He said it was also necessary to continue and complete the process of professionalising the military, to improve military leadership, with an emphasis on cohesion, ethics and responsibility, and to raise motivation in the Slovenian Army. These are things that are important in that non-financial work, although we can certainly talk about raising motivation in terms of finance, because if soldiers have more money in their wallets, then they will also be more motivated for their work. Homeland pride is something, but with it you can't buy diapers for a baby, you can't buy food, you can't pay the bills and so on. And I would like to know whether the current leadership of the Slovenian Army has support for precisely these specific objectives. If I were rude or hysterical, like the Minister at the Defence Committee's meeting, I would say, "Stop following the iPad, please, if you're listening to me." Let's move on. Money. If we look at some figures in the night you get 120 million euros for migrants, you get 200 million euros per night for SDH, you'll obviously get 400 million euros for NLB's lawsuits and you're obviously willing to pay a fine of 300 million euros for NLB's non-sales. [[…]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is almost one billion euros. To say that there is no money when these numbers clearly show that it is, but priorities are elsewhere, is unrealistic, irresponsible and misleading. At 5% of economic growth, money is, of course, a question of where are the priorities and how it is used. If the priority is that NLB is still a private ATM for certain purposes, as it has been since all the years since its independence, then you will spend €700 million on NLB. If security is a priority, then we will follow those proposals on 2.5% of GDP for security. The decision is on the government, the decision is on you and then the decision depends on what will be the next path of the Slovenian Army. In Desus' position, it was said that issues that were historically linked to the Slovenian Army were also raised. Yeah, that's the problem. Since the Slovenian Army, which was created in 1991 if we wanted to, in particular in May 1990 – because if it had been created in 1991, probably the country would not have started with the Manevre structure of national protection – it had a different policy and it followed different objectives than it did within the Slovenian Army. Firsthand, he's going to talk about this to a fellow Beznik who's spent many years in this system, he's a veteran, he knows things, and it doesn't make sense that I'm talking about it, because he knows things better. DEFINITIONS OF THE DEFINITIVE BUDGET Yes, there are always two criteria here; one is nominal elevation, the other is increase according to the percentage of GDP. And unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the defence budget of the Republic of Slovenia fell from last year to this year. He fell under a criterion that is the only relevant to the NATO liaison, and also elsewhere. It is not always seen as much as a state nominally for defence, since this information tells you nothing, it is seen as how many percent of GDP gives for defence. And here we fall again, despite our clear commitments, what should be the situation in 2024. And when Mr. Jurša said, "It's not politics for Poček." Yeah, who's to blame? Politics is the one who sets up the leading personnel in the military — we know how they are set up — and politics is to blame because it either devotes or does not devote money. And if he doesn't spend enough money, then here's the problem, firstly, the finance itself, secondly, the personnel and thirdly, the equipment. And when the minister put a new boot on the table, I'll give some boots that aren't exactly new, and they're not in use anymore, but it's clear what the situation is. [[advertising from the hall]] These boots are no longer in use, this is a model, but if it was absurd for the Minister to bring in brand new boots, then it is absurd for me to bring, for the first time, old boots, and for the second time, those that are no longer in use. [[advertising from the hall]] And as for this, there was a lot of talk about inadequate equipment or the issue of boots. As for the boots – and I also looked at the Alpine, what is really going on with these boots, how is it possible for the boots to fall apart from soldiers, how many of these cases there are, because, given what the soldiers have told me, many of them will also give up their boots, of course, retreat from the soles, up, down, left, right – at the Defence Committee meeting, I said that it was a questionable quality. And the Social Democrats, specifically their Secretary-General, Mr Dejan Levanič, apparently with the partisan name Jake Why Jake? Because someone cut out that particular statement I made, it was some profile of a user named Jake, put it on Twitter, and told him how Machnik was hurting Alpini. Then it was half an hour ago, no one was reviving it and the first Dejan Levanič was reviving it, so his partisan name was obviously Jaka. But what's the problem? Alpina – you started this, Mr. German – makes a good product, but if the Ministry of Defence for these shoes does not properly ensure that soldiers get them from Alpine, quality, and that year, two or three store them, then it makes sense that the shoes fall in quality. And then soldiers get boots like that. As I was aware, they also began to sew on their shoes, so at least on this side there will be no problem. And the other thing. We know what it's like; if you want to come to the invitation, you have to offer a price if you want to get through. If you offer a certain price, it is clear, however, what are the restrictions on materials. If, of course, it was possible to get through at a higher price, quality would also be higher. But what they told me and I agree with: Alpina makes quality boots, due to inappropriate storage, and mainly due to too long storage, the quality of these shoes also falls. And as a result, politics is responsible for what happened at Poček. The policy is responsible for finance, personnel and, as a result, equipment. Mr. Jurša said: "Everyone who runs the unit is responsible." You can see that he was reading an interview with General Steiner, because those are his words. Otherwise, his attitude was as if he were reading that interview. However, the Water Commander does what the Company Commander ordered him to do. Commander of the Company does what the regiment commander, battalion commander and then brigade ordered him to do. etc. If he's going to look for responsibility with the water commander, because it was a mistake and he made it just because he was so ordered, then I don't think we should point our arrows at the water commander, because it's not his fault that such a command came. And now we go up in the hierarchy and we get to who? To the top, it's the head of the General Staff of the Slovenian Army. O.K., he's responsible for what happened, you said. But what if he didn't command the drill? How could he be responsible if he wasn't there? But the regiment was examined by Brigadier Friday; we know who the commander of the brigade is, and the regiment commander and his deputy were already replaced. In short, you've been looking for responsibility somewhere in the middle, but we know what's going on with the others. Here's the one who examined the unit that was still talking about how great everything would be, Brigadier Milko Friday, who is still commander of the Slovenian Army Force Command. And the SDS and NSI's proposals to be thoughtless were said by Desus. Then the reckless proposals of the current Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, General Alan Geder, are, because these are the proposals he proposed when he was still a deputy. But, of course, if it is called the one who warned about the situation, he hopes to say aloud what has been seen today, without hair on his tongue, and not only criticises, but also offers concrete solutions. What he said today, I wrote down to you earlier, and what he said at the 60th emergency meeting of the Defence Committee is our recommendations. Social Democrats; the question of why a verification decision has been taken and why it has not been translated. Yeah, because by April, the battalion has to be rated. That's why. Probably if they knew they weren't gonna run the test and if they could move it, I think they'd move it. But it was a deadline, a date, and by April, the matter had to be carried out. Maybe we could reschedule for a month, but this situation wouldn't have solved it. Soldiers to use for the political struggle of Our Lady and gentlemen, we have, in all four years, proposed conclusions, solutions, proposals, drawn attention to the situation in the Slovenian Army and have proposed concrete solutions for improvement. [[...]] We don't use soldiers for political struggle because I don't know how you can build a political fight on one such segment. Then we can say that social democrats are now using the public sector unions for political struggle, Desus is using pensioners for political struggles, which they have been for 22 years, but O.K. If we start talking like this, then let's be consistent and say things. But the situation is such that it is necessary to act and if you have action through concrete solutions to the political fight, then obviously we will not move from this point and it will indeed be what General Gedder said that in 2020, 2021 will no longer be the Slovenian Army. And that's what politics says, it was read to us by the Social Democrats, who called the troika. If you had come to Slovenia three, two would have happened. [[advertising from the hall]] That we called the three of us, that was said from your side. That's it. Yeah, that's what I said, right? First, if the three came, the money could be borrowed at more favourable interest rates, one percent at a time; look at the percentages you owed. But that wouldn't even be a problem. The problem would be that second point, you should cut all the privileges, that's the problem. And that, of course, is why you preferred to be in debt at higher interest rates. The law is useful for the Slovenian Army. Again, I will only say what the General has said: they will not make things worse, nor will they improve it. In short, these laws are status quo. And after the soldier gets 80, 100 euros more, after all the years that came to mind, they'll say, but you're kidding. And to the information he said today, or the last time, how many years ago the soldier was paid 95% of the average wage in Slovenia, and that today 55%, ladies and gentlemen, is the only solution, the only one and only one, just to step up the wage. And a way out of the public sector. If we look at what is said in the Labour Relations Act, I think it is Article 185: “A worker who cherishes a child under three years of age can be charged with working overtime or working at night only with his prior written consent.” How should this apply to the Slovenian Army? Someone who doesn't want to go to the field, someone who doesn't want to do overtime, says, "I have a kid at home who's under three years old who doesn't want to do overtime." That's why I'm not going. We came here with the Slovenian Army. And we have instructed the unit commanders with this system that they must ask each and every one of them, but you will come to the exercise, but you will come to the exercise. And then what happened when we had to go to Latvia, when it came to, say, some white sentences. And that way, he can't go any further. That each commander would deal with each individual whether he would come to work or not, this way the army could not work and will never work. If we really wanted to join, we would also address the issue, as Americans say, family care, is said to be some comprehensive family care for those who are members and members of the Slovenian Army. We should talk about how we will give members and members of the system, also from abroad, a trade in warehousing stores, where they will buy products without tax, how we will put kindergartens in the barracks, where soldiers will be able to put their children there and pick them up when they leave work, we should discuss how we will take full care of the wife, husband, partner and children when the Slovenian Army is on the mission and so on what ratings they will have for businesses. In short, this is done by serious countries that are aware of the seriousness of the defence area, the security area and where the soldier is a respected and valued profession. In the United States of America, when someone comes in uniform on a plane, on a bus, look, people clap. We probably have someone thinking, yes, look at him, and he's putting a wire on the border for 600 euros. You've brought the Slovenian Army to this point. And what colleague Ferlug said: "The Slovenian army should not judge itself." I don't agree with that. It is true that, as colleague Han said, the Slovenian Army, this particular Poček was not evaluated by NATO's generals – the leader I think was NATO's general or general from Bulgaria – but they evaluated themselves. But they were evaluating themselves according to the nato standard. And I think the leader of this group was Brigadier Alenka Ermenc. And as far as I know her, Mrs. Officer, she's a member, professional, professional. And here was a smart move to call her deputy. But as I know, as I was aware, she said: “Be objective, if you give a lower grade, explain this.” And then the grade came back the way she did. And then, I don't know, the secretary says how it's possible that secret documents were disclosed. What secret documents have been disclosed? If someone says the battalion battle group failed the exam, it's not a revelation. But if I did, and you guys would come in front of the camera and say, "She did it," would that be a revelation or not? There was no disclosure of confidential documents. All of this is of no benefit to either the Slovenian Army or the public, who will probably have the impression after this meeting, that they have spoken a lot again, but nothing is done in particular, because today there is no vote either, because the vote has already been made before, but unfortunately it has not been voted to raise wages by 30%, to exempt the Slovenian Army from the single wage system and to start working order at least in the field of reserve, which means that we keep the contractual reserve and also start with a selective military obligation based on the example of Sweden and the example of Norway. If all of this is not done immediately after the parliamentary elections, I hope that within two years before this national assembly, there will be a proposal to delete, I think, section 62 of the Military Duty Act, which means re-introducing the recruitment system, where we know how to refer to the conscientious objection, where we know what it will be when it comes to the military, how it is with the boys, the girls and so on, where we will get a system that is already broken by the stitches, just before the introduction of the professionalisation system in the Slovenian Army. I think that in today's debate we were at least on our side, for the first time, concrete, and for the second time correct, that you will not be able to tell anyone about any beatings, some show, as the media has then shown, such as 24 hours, RTV and so on, in short, the media, who are apparently reporting for the benefit of the Social Democrats. But of course it is their choice and, of course, the choice of citizens and citizens is who to trust. But it is a matter of one who really wants to change the situation in the Slovenian Army. It is clear that if there are no changes within a few months, unless the measures proposed by the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces are confirmed, even today, proposed by the SDS and the NSI, then we can conclude with the Slovenian Army and those dreams or wishes will come true in 2010, when the Mladina started the petition Let’s end the Slovenian Army, until yesterday or until the previous week when the editor said: “The armies now as it is, we do not need any more. A small country like Slovenia no longer needs an army.” But we are not Iceland, where we could go without an army, because, for the first time, we have no such position, and for the second time, we cannot offer NATO or PESCO or anyone else what they offer. And the last thing that has been reported today is that we are questioning some career path of members and members; that is not at all true, Madam Minister. For the last time, I asked you again today, and I will conclude with this: Let me disprove only one thing – which I have for a certain member and member or let me say directly, for the brigade, we know what they are, I will not now list them – which is not true, what I have said. That's all. You can tell me everything, up, down, left, right, but I'm just asking you which of what I said is not true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs. Andreja Katič, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u70	Thank you, Madam Vice President. What's wrong? I already told you at the board meeting. I quoted your lies in the explanation given. You're obviously judging by what you'd do if you were me. But I myself take all my decisions on the proposal of professional colleagues; as far as the Slovenian Army is concerned, on the proposal of the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, concerning other parts covered by the Ministry of Defence, in accordance with experts covering a particular area. Now I'd start with what you said yourself about Chief Geder; those shoes are old shoes, we ordered beige shoes, just beige shoes. Here I have the material prepared by Commissioner Geder for today's press conference, and I would like to read you about the proposal for the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. It says: »The most important acquisitions for the Slovenian Army are: Updated and in one place the fundamental issues of organisation, complementarity and operation of the Slovenian Army are settled. The tasks of the military and military personnel are now clearly and transparently regulated. The Chief of General Staff has been given greater powers to deploy, raise and assign military personnel. The system of command and the obligations and rights of military personnel in the context of the mandatory enforcement of issued command acts shall be regulated in detail. The military promotion system and the structure of military acts are becoming comparable to that of other Member States of the Alliance. It enables extensions for the comprehensive organisation of the military service in the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, which will result in better status arrangements for the military profession and thus improve the completeness of the Slovenian army. In the form of a special allowance of €60 to the gross salary, it values the total prohibition of a sentence by military personnel as the only professional group in the Republic of Slovenia. The Slovenian Armed Forces actively participated in the drafting of the Defence Act, notably in the work relating to the organisation and functioning of the military. We support the bill." Dear Member, this is the material of Major General Geder's Chief of Staff. Second thing you said – the rights enjoyed today by members of the Slovenian Army. You talked about whether a soldier or a soldier could take leave if they had a sick child or a parental leave, and that was regulated by the Labour Relations Act. But this Labour Relations Act also regulates all labour relations in the field of the economy, not only in the public sector. And if the Slovenian Armed Forces withdraw from the public sector, this means that the Labour Relations Act will still apply to them, unless otherwise regulated by another law. And that's what we're proposing. We are not proposing an exemption from the public sector, not only for the Slovenian Army, without the police, without civil protection, without the intelligence and security services, but we are proposing, in accordance with Article 22 of the Law on Public Servants, which provides that a particular issue for professional members of the Slovenian Armed Forces may be dealt with differently. That's our proposal. Thus, the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army can regulate certain issues differently than are regulated in other laws. Article 22 of the Civil Servants Act is the basis. And that is exactly what we have proposed in the Defence Act and in the Service Act in the Slovenian Army to take into account the specificity of the profession carried out by a soldier or soldier or all members of the Slovenian Army. You told me before that I'm hysterical; all I'm saying is that I'm a woman, I can do more functions at once. But I'd like to tell you about your observations about why we only asked for 30 million. It is not true, the government has decided that each year it will increase further by at least 30 million and that this will also lead to the conclusion that there will also be a gradual increase in the percentage of defence expenditure relative to GDP. And indeed, according to the spring estimate of Umar, which will come, we have a high economic growth, but you can't say that we don't get any more money if we had 339.9 million in 2014, 2015 343.9 million, 2016 389.2 million, 2017 406, 2018 435.6 And according to Umar's spring forecast, you will also have a medium-term defence programme ahead of you, where additional funds – at least 10 million – will be available, given that we are also following the growth of defence spending, and in 2019, according to an old forecast of 463,9 million. And this is a real nominal increase. Before that, you asked what the procedure was and whether the marriages were the two who would save the only ones. No, no, no. All the time, in all those sessions — how many times did I say we had them at that time? Aha, 53 emergency meetings of the Defence Committee, 17 regular meetings of the Defence Committee, three extraordinary meetings of this Parliament; otherwise, we are not sitting very much here, but still – I said that we were doing the Strategic Review of Defence and this Strategic Review of Defence, the basis for this is a thorough analysis that we have done in the entire Slovenian Armed Forces system, the defence system. And on the basis of this analysis, which has been carried out by such experts within the Ministry of Defence and the Slovenian Armed Forces, measures are also proposed. And these measures, if I simplify, are going in three directions in particular. One is the need to provide more resources, care for the modernisation of the Slovenian Army and care for the personnel, the other is the reform of the regulatory regime, both the Defence Act, the Service Act in the Slovenian Army – we have the Defence Act 1994 – and other strategic documents, and thirdly, leadership in the Slovenian Army. That's what I said in the introduction if you'd listen to me. And we follow these three pillars. We have provided more resources; you can say that there are too few, certainly, but it is difficult to make up for one billion in two years, which is probably what you will agree on. We have prepared a revision of the normative documents waiting for you, whether you will accept them or not, and on this basis we are also waiting for the renewal of other strategic documents – but we have done all this simultaneously, we have only had two years of time, so we have waited and waited and waited. And of course, as far as leadership is concerned, I have said that the most will have to do the Slovenian Army. You yourself asked yourself that in 2015 we had 200 million for the mass of wages, in 2017 222 million. For a lot of wages. Without even counting 9.1 million here, because we had to correct the injustices of the past and, of course, to pay all overtime for the past period of EUR 4.1 million. Here's what I'd say. The biggest interventions, as regards the salaries of the soldiers, were by measures from Zuif in 2012, whether or not you wanted to do so during your government. The Zujf intervention measures resulted in 8 % reduction in the salary scale for public employees, non-increasing to a higher salary grade on the basis of estimates, non-payment of regular work performance and non-compliance with basic wages with rising prices of living needs. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm not gonna judge anybody? [[…]] It doesn't matter. I'll tell you anyway, even if they don't listen to me. Mr. Horvath, are you listening to me? All right, thanks. Yeah. [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, no, I meant SDS, I'm sorry. And probably these measures were necessary, I won't judge and I didn't want to be defined in the first place. However, I have already said many times that, during the time of this government, we have gradually abolished most of the savings measures in 2012 relating, for example, to the award of the voluntary service of the military, to the payment of special awards for the conclusion and extension of the contract of employment in the Slovenian Army, the system of payment of allowances under Article 59 of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army has been amended, overtime has been paid, the procedures for employment have been reduced, the voluntary service of the military service has been organised in several locations and we have recently also signed 250 scholarships. And if we look at the numbers, 22 million euros more. The average net salary per month – and here include supplements, these are paid salaries, so the allowances for special working conditions such as shift work, night work allowance and other, performance allowances, increased work volume, performance under Article 59 and overtime – were EUR 752 for the soldier in 2015 762, in 2016 849 and 2017 855; the average net salary per month. For a deputy of the thousand 77 in 2014, a thousand 80 in 2015, a thousand 186 in 2016 and in 2017 a thousand 207; the average net salary. And for an officer in 2014 a thousand 404, in 2015 a thousand 421, in 2016 a thousand 545 and in 2017 a thousand 598. I would now like to give further details for last year, including January of this year's payments; I have already mentioned some of the data here. However, from these data I will give you, the salaries of foreign workers have been eliminated – let's say, as regards international operations and missions, attachés and other representatives – and the amounts of net salaries are actually charged, taking into account that the salaries for January and July are accounted for in the last half-year reference period, either as a nadura or 30% supplement. And for the salary for September, the removal of the anomalies was calculated up to and including the 26th pay grade and a calculation was made from 1. Seven. 2017 onwards. In addition, the salary for October 2017 also accounted for the increase in wage classes for other members in accordance with the Regulation on the classification of formational duties and titles in the Slovenian Army in salary classes subject to an increase from 1. Ten. 2017 onwards. And the December 2017 salary also accounted for regular promotions. So these are all the measures taken by the Government at this time. And if we look at the payments, the average net salary; in July 2017, the average net soldier pays a thousand 120.71, August 957, September thousand 89.53, October 970, November 1006, December 972, January 59. Petty Officer: July 1 556 August 1 324 September 1 368 October 1 306 November 1 328 December 1 310 January 410 Officers: July 2th 75th, August 729th, September 696th, October 713th, November 746th, December 721th and January 2018th 906th. Here's the difference when you asked me where the extra funds went. But here I was talking about net average paid wages. But we are aware And here I have data for the lowest and highest wage for December 2017. [[…]] I'm talking about net amounts again. The lowest salary paid to the soldier was 734,37 and the highest paid to the soldier was 897,57. Minimum for Petty Officer 846.33, maximum 2 000 689.99. And for the officer the lowest 924, the highest 3 thousand 974.48. And indeed, with the proposed legislation – with the Defence Act and above all the Service Act in the Slovenian Army – we improve the position of those who are the worst paid, those are soldiers or those who have a fixed-term employment relationship, not of course employees for indefinite periods or senior officers. And if we look at the salaries of members of international operations and missions during the period 2014-2017. 2014, this is a net amount: 2 000 872 soldiers, officers 3 thousand 549. In 2015: soldiers 2 000 918, deputies 3 thousand 508, officers 4 thousand 479. In 2016: soldiers 2 thousand 941, deputies per month 3 thousand 562, officers 4 thousand 528. And in 2017: soldiers 2 thousand 929, deputies 3 thousand 549 and officers 4 thousand 559. [[advertising from the hall]] Net. That's the same thing because there's no special taxes, and all of it, that's what's paid to them. And I also said that the Ministry of Defence is spending EUR 11 million on additional pension insurance from the entire public sector. And it is true that this is the focus of the proposed new law for soldiers and those who are employed for a certain period of time. And once again, I say that this would be about 3,000 euros per year for a soldier, so I suggest you make your statement on whether you will adopt both laws or not, so that we can propose other measures. So far, only on these statements by the proposaler Mahnič. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Germany and Mr Franz Breznik. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. After these two longer performances, it may be good to refresh some things. We have said or know that this debate on the state of the Slovenian Army in this mandate is not the first and that nothing has changed in a positive direction since the first debate and now this second. Nothing. This is what the facts talk about, the figures talk about, all the other things talk about, the assessment of the readiness of the Slovenian Army and so on. In short, nothing has changed in this area. Here before me, with regard to our parliamentary group, some Members spoke, who have been following this process of formation of the Slovenian Army live. They weren't monitoring, they were involved in making this system live. Not only in the creation, but also in the time when the Slovenian Army had to be used to defend itself against the Yugoslav People's Army, but they also worked with this system much later, either in the ministry, logistics or in any way in the role of Minister of Defence. In short, people were talking about this topic, which we can rightly not assume, but we know that the situation of the Slovenian Army, the situation in the Slovenian Army, the perspectives, trends at home and abroad probably know something. In a way, I am somewhat sorry that such discussions by people who know these things in depth go through, past us Members, past government representatives, past, I don't know, partly military professions and so on and so on. None of these discussions mattered to us and we have done nothing important further. Here are the main speakers who know the most about these situations in the defense department, especially those who may be following these things from somewhere on the side. These are some academically educated politicians and here they are wise to the full, how and in what direction the development of the Slovenian Army should go. We are If we look at a few of these European countries, I doubt that in any European country – whether from the Atlantic coast, Central Europe or anywhere else – they are dealing with situations in the military as we are. [[…]] All the central countries of the European Union are much safer in terms of external influences than Slovenia, which is in the European Union's frontier. They are safer and have better organised, better trained, better funded armies and better structured status of its members than Slovenia has. These are conditions that are not good for the Slovenian country. One of the reasons why things are going in the diametric opposite direction of what is spoken and inspired is the financial situation of the Slovenian Army, as well as the trend in the reduction of funds for the Slovenian Army. By standard, there should be, I think, around 2% funding. We are, as we say, strong under 1%. Regardless of what was happening at that time, the financing trend of the Slovenian Armed Forces has fallen significantly, especially in the mandate of Alenka Bratušek, and the mandate of Mir Cerar has fallen in general as regards the structure of the budget. Given that the situation in years, I don't know, 2008, 2009, 2010, as you have already found out, was very bad because the economic situation was also poor, they had to make a certain contribution to all the systems. However, as we can see, not all systems have made a proportionate contribution. The military is the one that has made an over-average contribution or the only one that has made a strong over-average contribution to calming down the situation due to the decline in economic growth and the rise in social distress. However, despite the fact that the last few years, especially this entire mandate, the Government has praised that the situation has changed significantly, that you have taken no qualitative measures to ensure that economic growth has taken place, even in the budget structure, we are still well below 1%. If you take the mandate of Janez Janša, the other Janša government, then the budget of the military was 1.1% of GDP. We're now at about 0.85, 0.9. And if, now that economic growth is maintained, at least this percentage from that most difficult year in Slovenian history, that is to say, the other Janshev government in 2012, the Slovenian Army should be given 450 million more at the same share of GDP or around 70 million more per year than the current Cerar government is giving. Even though you have significantly better conditions, despite having, I don't know, even the surplus will come to an end, and for the Slovenian Army you are spending less money on the percentage of GDP than Janšev's government committed in 2012. Now I just ask whether such an approach to the Slovenian Army is meaningful, rational, necessary, is still essential, whether the Minister should take some fundamental steps at this time and ensure a more appropriate budget structure. The question is on its own. With significantly higher economic growth, the proportion of GDP for the Slovenian Army is lower than when we were experiencing the worst crisis, as a percentage. And that amounts to about 450 million out of funds in this mandate. The second question is also, I will say, the perception of this Slovenian army. Some think that this is just the way it is; you have an army or you don't have one if there's no army, but there will be some other things. The question of whether or not there will be more. If we are unable to provide security – and the military is one of the foundations of the security system – then there will be no more things; there will be more fear; there will be more of those commanders who come across the Slovenian border and will be more reverential after all, because they will have more hope, and so on. And the defence system or security is one of the grounds that society actually works in some normal way. Why is such an aversion to the Slovenian Army at a time when it is not necessary, at a time like the current government, when conditions are significantly different? What is the goal of giving neither resources nor people’s wages? Earlier, it was said that the share of the salary or salary of the Slovenian soldier was about 55% of Slovenia's average salary, sometimes 90 or 95%. What's the reason? In order to do so, it can only be a systematic approach to destroying the army in some way, but it does not only destroy it. I understand there are many problems within this system. There are still some who are trying extremely hard to make the Slovenian Army together and justify certain things, and they also associate with some I don't know what things, but they don't, after all. All that has happened before has been interrupted by independence, by the emergence of a new state, democratic order and also by armies built on other foundations. [[advertising from the hall]] And the moment, the moment, when the debates in the Slovenian Army, including within, can begin, even the officer's staff or the relationship between the ministry as a political work and the military, you are also dealing mainly with other problems, not with the actual and actual role of the Slovenian Army. I think we should do these things. The army should become an army and deal with these things, protect the interests it created and at the time it came into existence, but not engage and draw it for all other purposes that do not even belong to it. I also understand the embarrassment of the President of the country, because he was the one who triggered this wave of humiliation. And now he's in some very strange role. On the one hand, the one who triggered the first trend, on the other hand, is now the Commander-in-Chief after, I don't know, the force of the situation or whatever we call it, and has something to say on this topic. Intimately it is where it was, it is said at the stage that the Slovenian Army should take something or hold it in some, I will say, a bad, low position. In short, part of this is in the financing regime, the second important part is in the relationship, the regulation of the situation between politics and the military as well as within the military, and the third problem is in particular the approach of citizens to the Slovenian Army. If we're gonna sell this as some kind of story about not knowing what's unnecessary about non-diggage, then this status will never be good. We must take the army to have it, we must be proud of it, we must strengthen it and develop it like all other social systems. Security, in fact, inside and border, however we turn this around, is first of all. And I hope that the next mandate will be such that these things will be approached in a significantly smarter and more robust manner. As for the materials you are talking about, these laws that are under way; the law does not solve anything in the short term. I said earlier that this is a multi-annual systemic abandonment of the status of soldiers, the Slovenian Army and so on and now you would say that you have solved this with one law. There's nothing to solve with one law like that. The ones we've been in these systems for a long time, we know that's true. This can only be something you put on the table and you want to say that you did something, and in fact all these things that are missing and we missed them in the 2018 budget or in the 2018 and 2019 rebalances remain a problem, in addition to those other matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž German has the floor. Prepare Mr Franz Breznik and Mr Marjan Dolinšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't have much time. I'll try to say in a few seconds what we've been talking about for the last 14 days, in a kind of circular way. In fact, I respect every political party's opinion, especially when it wants to be constructive and particularly realistic in its views. In fact, Nova Slovenije, SMC, Desus, SD and Levica also have a position on our responsibilities that we have been forced to accept in recent decades, including as regards developments around the Ministry of Defence and the Slovenian Army. We are not all responsible for the situation that has been in the Republic of Slovenia over the past ten years. We have given priority and importance to some other segments of our society, such as health, such as education, such as development. Indeed, in a way we neglected the Slovenian Army. It was not until 2015 when he actually knocked on our door of the refugee wave and since 2011 that the security situation around Europe has begun to deteriorate, we have come to realize once again the importance of the Slovenian Army. I appreciate the opinion of the Left and the attitude towards the Slovenian Army. I don't agree with him. However, I find the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party unusual. In a way — except at this point — we have witnessed in the last two hours that no one has even attended or listened to the meeting. But they're the reason we're here today. Of course, today we will find no solution to the fact that the Slovenian Army will live better, because these solutions have already been directed by the Minister and the current government. Of course, this 30 million a year does not mean – and no one is saying it, nor does the Minister herself – a final conversion in relation to the situation in the Slovenian Army. However, it means an important signal, not only to the Slovenian public, but also to the international public, that this trend is changing. Consciousness and attitude towards security and foreign policy are also changing in the Republic of Slovenia and we are going in this process. In this conclusion, I would still like to thank those who were capable of constructive debate and not political debate. And that in some way the shoes could only be judged by the hooves, it was said. Today we have seen some shoes here on this table, which were not exactly, as the minister said, the shoes of the Slovenian Army are at this moment. I hope that the anomalies and debates that do not contribute to the constructive dialogue and rescue of the Slovenian Army will end, and I hope that the policy will be able, in any way in the future after these elections, to deal with the Slovenian Army in a different light, so that the future government cannot – and I hope that nothing will happen – ignore other very important social issues, as I have already counted them. If I choose for myself, the largest part of GDP would be devoted to development itself, of course without neglecting the security aspect, because it is always too important and still has to be realistic in its views. In saving the Slovenian Army, politics will have to find a common path, because we will only be able to put the army in that segment for a long time, as we once had. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik has the floor to prepare Mr Marjan Dolinšek. Here you go, Mr. Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u76	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I do not have much time, but I will try to answer at least at the beginning of this debate some of the questions raised by my colleagues from the SD, particularly Jan Škoberne, Mr German and the SD Secretary-General on why we do not support both proposed laws. Once again, both proposed laws came into the procedure of the National Assembly after more than three years, they went through the parental committee. On the parental committee, the coalition partners also voted that they disagreed with certain solutions and that it was a matter for public debate. At that time, the President of the Defence Committee, Mr Mahnic, also gave the National Assembly two professional tasks to find a solution whether it was right or wrong. I will now also respond to those proposals that the Minister has discussed today, which were discussed by the honourable SD fellow Members. First proposal, soldier with IV. The level of education shall be paid after the new calculation with the V level of education. How many such soldiers do we have in the Slovenian Army? 750. It's a minority of all the soldiers. Have you ever worked with them around the clock? Look, the information you gave here today is misleading. You're talking about salaries, but you're not saying it's the average salary of a soldier, an officer and an officer, along with international missions and everything else. All of this is included in this salary: all allowances, working hours and everything else. This was paid the average net salary of the soldiers. Most soldiers who come into this system don't have that kind of salary. That's the salary we're bringing in. A monthly strike ban of EUR 60 and a cash prize of EUR 60 at the time of employment and at each service year at the rate of one gross salary – do you think, Madam Minister, that these measures will satisfy the fact that there will be no departure of soldiers? In particular that part of the soldiers who have mainly technical pre-education; we are talking about a number of machine techniques, electrotechnics, computer techniques, construction techniques and all others who have completed the so-called V level of education. Not to say that in the Slovenian Army at this time we also have the loss of civilians, both in the kitchens of the Slovenian Army and specialists in warehouses as well as in people who are mechanics of both bikers and caterpillars, specialists in the repair of patriots with special licenses, many techniques. As you know, years ago, we had an exodus of military pilots. Do you know what it means to educate or train a military pilot? In addition to Engineering College, the direction of aviation, in addition to raids on warplanes, first school aircraft and so on, we can, of course, also talk about aviation techniques with special licenses, air mechanics, aircraft maintenance personnel and so on. [[…]] All of this is part of the structure of the Slovenian Army and itself as someone who wore military boots – not like these two colleagues who never wore military boots – someone who commanded the water and the department and even the troops at the end of my journey, I know what the salaries are, I know what the relationships are and I know what kind of receptions would be enough to keep these people from leaving the Slovenian Army. And I'm pretty sure I'm right. I am not just talking about myself; I asked, can we say, part of the senior Slovenian military officers, part of the senior Slovenian Army officers with whom I know myself, who have the status of officers, who are extremely respected by their subordinates, who are, let's say, career people who have gone according to meritocratic principles to their functions and did not skip career chains. I believe that today I have also described the work of soldiers, subordinates, officers, and I have described all their matters that differ from those of the public or state administration. It is people who need to be psychologically prepared to have a level of education: for soldiers, the so-called high school with IV. or Level V, for Subpart V, VI. or VII. level, for officers VII. a degree or more for senior officers and generals. On the other hand, it is a work that is deadly; it is for people who work, we can say, under extraordinary weather conditions, as I said, the temperature range is about 60 degrees Celsius. These are people who work outside of normal working hours – in the field we cannot count a 12-hour worker or an 8-hour worker – people who go on foreign missions, people who need to be screened safely, people who handle weapons every day, people who have special licenses, people like tank drivers, bikers. Do you imagine the commander on one hoodie where I was alone, i.e. in the company or in the battalion of havbic 155 millimetres, or do you imagine one mistake of this commander, one wrong decision, and one mine 155 millimetres, let's say, instead of at Poček flying the next 3,000 meters, let's say in the center of Postojna? So it is an extremely responsible task, a life-threatening one, a work with people, a principle of subordination and an elderhood, where superiors have to convince by their own example, with their psychophysical willingness to follow them. The problem of exodus was not only a threat to the Slovenian financial army, it was also a matter of grading the basic value centre of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which lived in Slovenian spring, it was proud that it won the self-sustaining war, it was proud to see General Tonet Krkovic, the first or war minister. For example, in the Croatian military it is extremely important: the Croatian General Assembly, when you come to their premises, on their walls you see on one side of Fran Tuđman, on the other side of Gojk Suška, their military defence minister, who have special status in this institution. It's a system of organizational culture, I'm talking about, I'm talking about some legends, I'm always in the military, I'm talking about people who are their models, and that's why these people are following these people. With regard to people with “instant karma”, commanders who do not have the “instant karma”, you cannot force people to go after them in the war state of a hundred people into a life-threatening operation. It is a specific profession; it is a profession in which the elite of Slovenian boys and girls should come and where it is possible to continue their work from this profession in many societies, as it is in the West. In America, usually the majority of retired officers — or Israeli officers — are then top commercialists, people working in the economy, in their war industry, promoters of this, are people who know it best, who can represent it best and their colleagues in the same positions or in different countries follow it. That is why this is such an important element at the moment. Madam Minister, look, the reading of the Slovenian Democratic Party's inefficiencies, which you are now reading to us in the last period – we have not seen an army. I believe it was also part of a small boycott of certain units on the ground, but you have to thank it, not me. I have not been present in the Slovenian Army for more than eight years, I have left it with bitter memories of certain areas, but of course I have good memories of my comrades. I still respect them, and I try to help them, and I appreciate them, and I will never forget them. A fighter never forgets, so not in the field, and even now I haven't forgotten them as a politician. I am deeply convinced, as someone who was part of the system, that your solutions to the merger are too rootless that you will not stop this exodus and also the new candidates who will stand before the military to work in the Slovenian Army, during this great economic growth you will not get. Many soldiers, as well as professional workers, I am talking about civilians, even in Maribor they will go to Magno now, they will go across the border, they will go to a number of companies that work and pay better than the Slovenian Army. And believe me, Madam Minister, wherever you need us, we have literally shook hands with you in gloves in this complete mandate. In the night, for example, you came before us with those police powers; my colleague Gorenak and I had certain concerns, these concerns were even true. In the course of the night, we adopted a law where we added police powers to the army, some extremely ambiguous. If there was any chaos at the borders, we could also see here that our colleague Gorenak and I were right at the time. So, the Slovenian Democratic Party is a country-efficient party when such actions are taking place, especially in the area of national security. Please let some of the solutions that you have proposed and some of the colleagues who have never worn military boots in their lives, people who have never worked in the Slovenian Army, who have never commanded, who have never slept on the minus 15 or 20 tents, like me, my colleagues, civilian persons, subordinates and officers, but will not talk about what salaries are, whether they are too small or too high or these people deserve less or more. [[…]] I know how much they deserve. They deserve a lot, most of all, because they've been silent all these years. They were silent, they were modest, they worked extremely professionally, and if ever, they deserve it. Once again, I will conclude my debate today, I do not want to – because I had the privilege of standing and standing in the war for Slovenia because I had this privilege to act in the war for Slovenia – and I will never allow myself as a politician here with short-sighted politics to destroy this pearl of the Slovenian Army. So... [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u77	Okay. Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Dolinšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u78	Thank you, President, for your word. First, I'd like to explain one thing. Also, the president of the country, when giving his opinion, said: “The Slovenian army has about as long a tradition as the Slovenian state has.” I have to say, I can't agree with this part. Have we forgotten who insured the arms of the self-sustaining process? [[advertising from the hall]] Territorial defence, members of the Territorial Defence, members of the then militia, together nearly 21,000 members in the territory of Slovenia. So it would be very unfair and extremely inappropriate to draw a distinction with 1991 to start the Slovenian army. Whoever knows anything about territorial defence, the development of territorial defence since its establishment in 1968, this year we will celebrate a 50-year-old whatever it is, has its own development, and if there was no territorial defence in 1991, who would have insured and with anything. [[…]] Indeed, because with the soul and heart the members joined in to secure Slovenian independence, even though we did not have the appropriate technical means, but the appropriate weapons against another force, which counted over 35,000 in the Slovenian space, against the then JLA. So I have to comment on this first thing from this place, and I also have to make it clear – without territorial defence and without the then militia, we wouldn't be sitting here today. Now, if I'm going to move on to the loving situation in the Slovenian Army. I believe that even the viewers and the viewers who accompany us may already have a lot of this when we smoldering the Slovenian Army for almost the entire mandate, from 2014, 2015 long and fast. We had countless meetings – 61 extraordinary meetings of the Defence Committee and 20 regular meetings of the Defence Committee, as well as several discussions took place in this Chamber. Nothing is wrong, on the contrary, that it has happened and that we have talked about these things, but I think the Slovenian Army needs finally a little of its peace. Also, the Commissioner himself, the new Chief General Geder has asked the Defence Committee for a few weeks of peace to prepare a situation analysis first and has expressed the desire for peace to prepare military proposals and minimum requirements for a way out of this crisis. For it is a strategic decision that requires a research approach and, of course, tests of possible options in relation to the situation. I would put it this way: yes, it is imperative that the Slovenian Army finally consolidates itself to start working normally. I cannot agree with a flat-rate assessment and only with negative things. I believe that we have our own soldiers, these real soldiers, who, in the event of anything worse, could protect our citizens and our citizens, because it is the primary task of the Slovenian Army. Only in the second part is collective defence and participation in the broader activities carried out by the Alliance. That's why in 2004 we joined the family, in the NATO Union, because if there is peace around us, and that's the mission of membership, and that's what we've decided then, we've decided at the citizens and citizens' referendum, let's pay respect and stop thinking, yes, and we don't need an army, and why the army, and how much we give for the military. [[…]] True, yes, when there is peace, we do not know what that means, but when we feel threatened, we all understand the need for an army. We witnessed this in 2015, when half a million people passed across our territory, and yet we have included our members of the Slovenian Armed Forces in helping our Slovenian police, who was the bearer and who also is, has a mission to protect our citizens and citizens. As I said before, I believe that our soldiers are ready for that stage to protect the possible threat of our country as well. So it is difficult to understand in part the opinion of the President of the State, who says: “... but is not prepared to act in war situations”. In a war situation. The former Chief of General Staff, General Osterman, said in his final assessment, which was also negative: "In a hypothetical war, the Slovenian army could defend our homeland, the Republic of Slovenia." And that's what former Chief General Osterman said when he was still in position or a little less than a year ago. And I believe it's true. Let us also be and watch the positive aspects of this beloved Slovenian Army. We really ripped it to shreds, didn't we? For God's sake, let's be so brave to gather together and wish her well and to have some peace so that they can start working normally now. We've seen events in recent weeks, all right. Everything's not so bad, exactly the opposite. [[…]] We forget things that were good. See how many praises we received from the very top of NATO of our Slovenian soldiers who perform activities on missions. What if we just forget about it? We have received quite a few commendations in all these years, and we can be proud. We forget that we have a certified NATO mountain fighting center for the entire NATO family. With us, in Slovenia. Then, participation in the EU's Sophia mission in the Mediterranean – we received special praise. It's not true. We just want to show negative things and see them. Let's see some nice, positive things. And I say, because sometimes it just freezes me when I was in command of the Godfather in 1991, when I was in command of independent water, and then, if I do this now, well, then there were other times, but still - proudly we were all, to the ordinary soldier who wore the uniform, we were proud of that uniform. [[…]] And I believe the boys are proud of this uniform today. And we convince them that everything is wrong and that they are bad. That's not true. That's not good. And we're still doing this: we're still talking to Europe about how we are. Here, in concrete terms, I apologize, including what the President of the country wrote down in his opinion and has given us today. I don't know. I don't think that's the best way. So I think you should also look at the positive salaries that there are quite a few. Even the efforts of the Minister; I believe, of course, everything has not been the most successful for her, but I believe that she has directed all forces towards one of those final goals in order for this Slovenian army to rise as high as possible. If we go to financials. In order not to list and repeat these millions once again, it is said that since 2014, when we took over, we have consolidated things before the arrival of almost three, and so on, our government has had to have a picture even before itself, even the country, not just one area. And if we look at it, it says, earlier, the minister was very visible around the financial resources, it says, we stopped the downward trend, we started adding financial resources, over 30 million visible funds over the last two years, including 2019 in the budget, so we didn't say we did anything. We're done. It's something else. I think that at the last meeting of the Defence Committee, the Director of Logistics also said that some of the procurement procedures run for 9 months, even after 1 year. If we were to devote 300 million more now, when could the procedures be brought down? Let's be realistic. I used to be in the economy, and I've been making offers on public contracts, and it's not important things, there's no comparison. When it comes to military equipment, however, the procedures are much, much more complicated and one year has passed. I believe, for the last time by the Ministry’s management – 8-wheelers in two years we will not be able to buy, because, for the first time, the production is sold out and the procedures themselves will not be able to be carried out, but with these funds, which have been partly intended for this purchase, another necessary material technical means will be purchased which the Slovenian Army needs. And I believe that this money will be spent in an appropriate manner for other purposes, for equipment, which is now most urgently needed. So, as it sounds on the board, there's already a few equipment available, so it's working. Even this loving story around these boots; I don't know, I don't know, the idea that this was really well constructed right at the same time as this exercise at Poček took place and this evaluation came out and so on. [[advertising from the hall]] So that I don't go, so it won't take me too far, so I won't mention any sabotage. But according to the information that was clear by the management, the equipment was bought, the boots were bought, and the other is, and I'm not gonna get involved, they're replaced, they're not, and so on, or they're wearing the right socks, I'm gonna go too far. The ones we put through the army, we know we're not little kids. So we need to be so correct here, not just looking for these negatives. There's been a change at the head of the General Staff, and I'm happy. Today, when the new Chief General Geder had a press conference, he listed the following under short-term measures – and these measures are possible under existing legislation – namely, for the first time, an increase in wages on all formational duties, secondly, an increase in the availability allowance, thirdly, a change in salary classes for all formational duties, with the exception of the starting class under Article 58 of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, and fourthly, the positional allowance should be returned to the period prior to the adoption of Zujf. This is what the Chief of Staff pointed out today during the short-term measures at the press conference. If we move on. I think some moves have been made and have been made in the last period. I must point out what the Minister had already done in the opening part was very clear – we joined PESCO in December 2017. I think that this is a very, very good step, a positive step, because this European family will build common capacities in the whole area, not just weapons. Here is also an opportunity for the Slovenian economy. So certain moves have also been made very positive. I think certain things have gone too far. Now, as far as we're concerned, we have to separate something. [[…]] One is, we have a General Staff that says it's 400 people. I still trust the experts. I won't judge what kind of cannon to buy. I think it would be very inappropriate, and I've said this a few times before: Politics, we're going to decide what kind of cannon is okay and what's wrong?Oh, my God! We're not experts. At least I won't allow it. I trust the high-ranking officers we have at the General Staff, headed by the Chief, now the new Chief, and if we don't trust those high-ranking officers, then who should I trust? Then who should we trust? And as far as this is concerned, the thought of all these recent events around the unwillingness of this fighting group draws me to one thought, whether the system of leadership and command in this our loving Slovenian army is working properly. But here's the big question. Is the existing system appropriate? And whether this system of command and command works, because that is essential. In every army, regardless of the state, we know – the first point is order and discipline. Order and discipline, in every army. Is there order and discipline in this Slovenian army? I hope that we will have an answer in a few weeks from the new Commissioner when he finds out the situation and also comes to some conclusions. Who's in charge of the soldiers? Officers and officers. Yes, but we have to say here, so once again, I emphasize that the soldier obeys his orders, which he orders by commanding. Were all those in charge of the hierarchy, according to the pyramid system to the very top, or were those orders appropriate, appropriate? Then we're reading a negative assessment. That's a second. The soldiers themselves follow orders. And here there was a little bit malicious about what we could read in the media, that the soldier couldn't even move in this exercise. No kidding, no. He didn't even know how to move! Wait, then it's really bad if he really didn't know how to move. Look, anyway, let's be so honest. So here's where some things don't go together. I'm not getting along here. I wish that, as far as this is concerned, in fact, to calm down and stress, financial resources are not the key issue of the situation that is. This story has a long beard since 2007, 2008 practically when the funds began to decline. And well, now to point to anyone and to the previous governments, however, it is very appropriate to mention with what responsibility they were then able to make certain decisions to take the military after 2010, almost 40%, namely the then Prime Minister, the current Commander-in-Chief, Mr Pahor. [[…]] However, I am glad that in this opinion today – and this year has not been written anywhere, nor has he mentioned it, and I believe that he also meant it – only stated that his government has taken the resources. Yes, I believe this about the situation at the time, but now in just two, three years, this situation cannot be remedied, especially in the field of personnel. We have also heard about the personnel of the predecessor, Comrade Breznik; see, I am a part of the day when I return to my homes, from small and medium-sized enterprises: the staff, the staff, and the salaries of a thousand 200 euro nets, do not get people. [[…]] I think that Zasavje is not the only problem, but that it is now a big problem at all; many of the entrepreneurs said, I would still increase my capacity, expand production, people don't get, I don't have people. And what's going on? People come from the former republics of Yugoslavia because no personnel are available in Slovenia. And also partly the answer is not only because it is such a situation, because they are not suitable wages, they are too low wages for a soldier, but I say, even if we give a thousand 200 euros to a net soldier, there will not be a species there tomorrow before the ministry to want to work in the Slovenian Army. But that's a bit of a broader problem. I believe things will start to work out. We've lost a lot of words in all three years, but it wasn't a loss of words. Nevertheless, I think we can draw the line and hope that in a month, two very encouraging words can be heard by both the Minister and the Chief of Staff, and I want the Slovenian Army to do everything well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We've exhausted that list we have. Mr. Joseph Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, who insist on this very important topic. I have listened deliberately to all of you, Minister of the State, of course, as well as to the President of the State. Thanks to technology, this session is interactive, thank God. And just now, one of the Slovenian members of the Slovenian Army, who is not who you are, who I know, who has been working for several years on the domestic drive, wrote this: “I see that you are in the session. What they are fantasizing – I have a net of €974 plus €80 in addition to commanding, I am responsible for 30 people plus 30 in the Battle Battalion Group. This is it." [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, look, we need to calm things down Yes, of course, of course, but if someone, colleagues and colleagues, if anyone understands parliamentary democracy, then it should be us and we are responsible here to correct the situation in the Slovenian Army. [[…]] If we looked at the reasons, just the first paragraph – the reasons for calling this meeting – only the first paragraph, then we would see what this is really about. But it seems that no one here has read it, I fear that neither does Mrs Minister, whom I highly appreciate, and where we do not mention the central Slovenian military exercise Poček; this is nowhere in the text, this is not the reason, it is not. The reason is that the army has been at the lowest level for the fourth year in a row. We Prekmurci would say that the army has already “blotted out” four times; “pushed” in the dictionary of the Prekmurje Book Language means trapping, splitting, not making a yearbook or class. And when you four times “voice”, then you have to change something – or change it, you go to do something else or do what you do for four years the same, and always “voice” – you have to do something different. This is perfectly normal and perfectly logical. It is logical and essential that the legislative branch of power be called here. Next, in the following sentence: “The main problem which has been raised by the Minister of Defence Mrs Andreja Katič and the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, Dr. Andrej Osterman, is the lack of funds and the growing lack of interest in the military profession.” So, in fact, Madam Minister, you should be sitting next to me for four hours now, because that city is sitting there. We're on your side, Madam Secretary. Now he doesn't listen to me because I'm an opposition MP, he just misses him. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, sure. But you didn't understand that we're on your side to fight for you. If I were Andreja Katič – but I am not and will not – I would not have had enough political support in the government if I did not take you into account in the three budgets – I believe and I hope that you have fought for what you say, repeatedly that you do not have enough financial resources – you would have stepped down. As young people say, you'd be a jacket, you'd be a hero. We'd go and say, we could still hit the biggest government party: look, I don't have the support of the finance minister, I don't have the support of the prime minister. I'm leaving. And we'd go. But that's how I'd do it, and you've made a different choice. I don't have a problem with that. I don't have any problems with the bill you were talking about. But here the Slovenian public now understands that the opposition is guilty. You have been with us, I respect, you have presented your proposals for laws; we have made our comments because we create legislation, not government. We, we decide the laws here. Today the coalition was shooting at each other, I was thinking of calming things so that the public wouldn't look at you, because I feel embarrassed when the public was watching you, how is this Slovenian people – what is it already called? - You're bringing around. I just don't understand why, soon after March 23rd, it will be 15 years since we went to the Slovenian referendum; about a million of us went to the referendum and two thirds of these said that the Republic of Slovenia should become a member of NATO. And still after 15 years, some here aren't, they didn't internalize that we just decided on this in the most democratic way, that we're not doing anything for NATO, but for us, because then we are. And this is poisoning the Slovenian public. Those who don't remember this referendum, who are younger and so on, and you say, "Yes, we're going to give you a billion and so on for NATO." No, we'll give it to us, for our own safety. Here, unfortunately, I am not really sure whether we are united – all of us here, all 90 and of course the Government – whether we want Slovenia to have its own army. But this question is adequate to the question of whether we want to have a Slovenian state, because the military is one of the most important attributes of the state or statehood. And here I think we're going back to some alphabets, some definitions that some countries have long graduated and are modernizing today; they're taking care of security, because, look, because of technological progress every day, there are some new dangers. Here I agree with the President of the Republic, who says: “We must generally renovate our security system.” But some would still like to have a recruitment system and three months of compulsory service and so on. Someone even once published this topic even more “and”: “Yes, it would be nice for our sons to learn how to make beds.” Please! Raising is a family matter. And I'm not going to continue here now. But I believe that a lot of people don't even understand what hybrid warfare is, what cybersecurity is, and so on and so forth. All of this represents a system, a security system. The president also said well: We are now safe. What will be at the end of this session, we don't know. We don't know. Does anyone know? And now that we have to do some risk analysis again — it has to be on the table every day. Some of you have gone far into history, the history of the creation of the Slovenian Army, which is actually right. We need to know history, even as regards some of our military successes in Slovenian history, we must certainly be proud of this and every Slovenian citizen should respond to this, even when it comes to General Maistre and so on and so forth. I will not go back or explain to you here now that I myself have been a participant in the war for Slovenia for 17 days. Well, that's not the topic today. Maybe I'm just saying this because I have to apologize to you, because maybe that's why I'm saying it a little differently, just because of that. But when we talk about politicians and when there was a minister and so on – yes, of course, the Minister of New Slovenia, Mr Hojs, who is no longer today, is no longer our member. But look, Slovenia was in a free fall in 2012 and 2013. And we have given more to the defence budget in proportion to GDP than we are giving today. This year we fell for, okay, two hundred percentage points in relation to gross domestic product as regards the defence budget. When we were in the government and when the economy was strong, 6.7% of economic growth, for example, in 2006, when we, Nova Slovenija, a financial minister who is the custodian of the budget – and if the defence minister does not have support for the main finance woman, it is bad, I would like to believe – then in 2006, we realized a defence budget of 1.63% of GDP, and we planned even 1.7, which was 506,6 million euros. Of course, we had tolars back then. With regard to this debate, I would like at least one point to agree: that as a result of the development of technology and society in general and also of course of new and new threats, new threats – we know what the political situation is in our immediate vicinity and beyond – as a result of all of this and we must make a number of other decisions, and this is the task, of course, of the next government to renovate the defence system. And one more thing. As a matter of fact, ink has not yet dried, if I may say so, the new Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia – it was adopted here on 10 July 2015. One of the two key objectives, the emphasis of this declaration, is that it means the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to then our fundamental security framework. And please no longer poison the Slovenian public by actually threatening us. And for that, allow me, because I have so much time left to remind myself of the North Atlantic Treaty, April 4, 1949. Of course, we later signed it on the basis of a referendum, based on the decision of our people, a two-thirds decision. “The Contracting Parties to this Treaty reaffirm their confidence in the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and their desire to live in peace with all nations and governments.” Is there something wrong with that? It's a preamble. Next, the preamble continues: "They are determined to protect the freedom, common heritage and civilization of their nations, based on the principles of democracy, personal freedom and the rule of law. They seek to promote stability and prosperity in the North Atlantic region." Is there something wrong with that? Next: "They are determined to combine their efforts for collective defence and the preservation of peace and security." I like this contract very much because it has only 14 articles and you write it on one A4 format paper. And Article 5, paragraph 5, seems to me to be one of the most important things: “The Contracting Parties agree that an armed attack on one or more of the Contracting Parties in Europe or North America is considered an attack on all Contracting Parties.” And so on. Is there something wrong with that? So I hope that, at least in this mandate, there will be no more of this poisoning of the Slovenian population, that NATO is our greatest threat and one that will threaten the state budget and so on. But if anyone thinks that in these times when weapons and dangers are completely different than they were 10, 20, 30, 40 years ago, if anyone thinks that someone will be able to go to the field in sweatpants and sports shoes and fight See, first of all is to protect a soldier as a man with all the equipment that is far from just a shoe and far away is not just a dress. [[…]] And these recommendations, I don't know, I don't understand why the defence committee simply rejected these recommendations. You're badly burned, some in the coalition, but here we suggest that the military be excluded from the single public sector wage system. Do you know who said that first? You don't know. In September 2014, Mrs Vesna Györkös, the candidate for Home Affairs, said this, and we were surprised and surprised, although we were in a wise silence, but the lady must have thought things through and it would be good for someone else to think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the debate and I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Andreja Katič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u82	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! You have to understand that this material that you have prepared for consideration by the Defence Committee, which has not been supported there, I do not accept so friendlyly. I will quote a few words: “Inappropriate equipment of members of the Slovenian Army. In recent years, especially at the time of the Minister Katičeva's ministry, there are sad stories of members who are not provided with suitable footwear and appropriate clothing by the Slovenian Army.” Furthermore: “... it is argued that the financial situation is too weak to buy the appropriate number and quality of uniforms and boots and other equipment to ensure the minimum quality and quantity of the Slovenian Army.” One of the headlines: “Inability to stop moral collapse and raise the apathy of members of the Slovenian Army.” After: “All together further exacerbate the Minister’s schizophrenic policy on the regulation of required training and education as conditions for employment.” We are already on the Defence Committee, and also Chief Geder has said what we have changed and is changing on a proposal from the Slovenian Army. Then on: “With the arrival of Minister Katičeva, the exodus of capable personnel began to be deployed abroad, long-term training abroad, and the withdrawal of inappropriate staff to various cathedrals, military schools and less influential positions within the General Staff. From hidden corners, commanders who are neither properly trained nor qualified for their functions have been invited. They also lack experience at all levels." And I said what is the minister's authority, what is the Commissioner's jurisdiction. And I would have found something in this piece of paper. Maybe he doesn't even know this public that much because we haven't quoted him. When I spoke today about the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, I said that these two laws would not solve all the problems, but they are part of the solution that he outlined as the measures of the Strategic Review of Defence, which we did in 2016 and which the Government addressed and also took certain measures in December 2016. And this strategic review and the measures that we have foreseen there, including the recasting of legislation, we have worked with Slovenian Army experts and the administrative department of the Ministry. I also read to you today what I have in the writing of the new Chief Geder. The Slovenian Armed Forces actively participated in the drafting of the Defence Act, notably in the work relating to the organisation and functioning of the military. We support the bill. Those words, that these two marriages will solve all my problems, you put them in my mouth. I didn't say that, but you're part of the solution. Part of the solution is because we have them in the procedure because you have them on the table. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on these recommendations, which have been tabled and which we are talking about today, was that three more laws must be adopted for this purpose, and you today have the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army already on the table. Please, for quite some time now, to identify yourself with them, whether you accept them or not, so that the Ministry of Defence, together with the Slovenian Army, can make other proposals to resolve the situation that we have prepared. But it's all about whether or not laws are passed. And once again, the law stimulates or improves the position of those who are the worst paid in the Slovenian Army, this is a soldier with an IV. For each year, if they conclude a contract for 5 years, they will receive one average gross salary at the end of each year and one average gross salary at the end of each year. If they conclude a contract for ten years, at the conclusion of two average gross wages and at the end of the year another average gross salary. And those who are already in the system would be recalculated according to how much they have entered into a contract now. And I said that we are not saving wages for the entire system of the Slovenian Armed Forces, but for those currently missing in the Slovenian Army. And these are the soldiers, the worst paid in the Slovenian Army. Once again, I would like you to make your statement on the laws and I draw attention to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service that your recommendations are enforceable only if we adopt three additional laws that we do not even have before us. It was obvious to me why I did not say good-bye, why I did not say good-bye in the beginning, but I still believe that I did, along with my colleagues, both in administrative work and in the Slovenian Army. However, it is impossible to make up for one billion euros invested in the Slovenian Army in the defence system if things were as they were in 2010, for example. In two years, one billion euros. And if I were to go; I could have excused myself to others, but I'm not used to throwing a rifle into corn just like that. Since 1991, we have replaced 14 defence ministers. I think that this unstable leadership has also helped to make the situation the way it is in the defence sector, as it is today. It was said that the coalition was shooting at each other today. I didn't notice. Member Ferluga and Member Dolinšek made themselves known by the SMC; on the part of Desus, the SDS parties, except for what solutions are available to soldiers after 45 years of age, which is regulated by our law, in fact by another debate, or by a few louder words from my mouth or more decisive. And once again, in addition to improving the financial situation of the worst-paid soldiers with the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, we also save the position of soldiers after 45 years. That's not what your suggestions are about. Your suggestions, however, need a legal matter we don't have in front of us. Once again, in December 2016, the Government addressed the Strategic Review of Defence, adopted appropriate measures. And these measures concerned, for the first time, the increase in defence spending – this government stopped the trend of falling defence spending and gradually increases – to modernise the Slovenian Army – I said at the beginning and also at meetings many times what we bought during this period to join the PESCO, to send a letter to the OCCAR – and, of course, to invest in personnel. And this is where I said it, and I repeat it again, tell me what will happen to the law. The second area is the reform of normative bases and strategic documents. I said that marriages are just part of this material. We have also reviewed and amended other strategic documents, which are also waiting for what will be the fate of the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. And, of course, more needs to be done to develop quality leadership in the Slovenian Army; but we have already spoken here both on the Defence Committee and on Parliamentary Affairs, what we have done in the field to regulate and further upgrade the training and education system in the Slovenian Army, especially at the military education centre in Maribor. He was an eyewitness about wages. I've already told you, the salaries in the army are low. The lowest net salary paid in December 2017 for the soldier amounted to 734, for Petty Officer 846 and for Officer 924, but the highest salary paid in December amounted to a soldier of net thousands of 897, Petty Officer 2 thousand 689 and Officer 3 thousand 974. These are paid salaries and I repeat them again because these salaries do not include income on international operations and missions, which I initially said what is included in this. And if we look at the salary for December with extras, but no mission salary, the soldier got an average net salary of 972, Petty Officer of the thousand 310 and Officer of the thousand 721. And I said that with the Service Act in the Slovenian Army and the Defence Act, we improve wages with these supplements for those who are the worst paid, these are soldiers and persons who are employed for a certain period of time, but not for all others who are employed for an indefinite period of time. When we talked about the exemption from the public sector, I was surprised by the suggestion that the Labour Relations Act would not apply more to those employed in the Slovenian Army. The Labour Relations Act applies to all employees in Slovenia unless the employer violates the rules. And the exemption from the public sector does not mean that these people will no longer be subject to the Labour Relations Act. However, I have said, and this is also a proposal for the Defence Act or the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, so that, on the basis of the Law on Public Servants – I think Article 22 – certain rights can be arranged for professional members of the Slovenian Armed Forces differently. And I understand that it would be easier to command if certain rights were not given to soldiers. They were exposed to paternity leave to take leave in case of a hospital. But I'd also like to tell you what the practices are in other armies. In Germany, for example, as regards paternity leave; in Germany, leave can be used for up to 3 years of age, even if adoption is possible. It can be used by both partners who can share or use it together. Together, parental leave may take up to 4 years. It can also be transferred to later periods for various reasons. I'm talking about my father's leave in the German army. In Poland, soldiers can benefit from parental leave and in Turkey, labour law does not regulate paternity leave. Romania; the soldier can take five days off from birth and an additional 10 days if he has taken a father's course, he can change his partner to maternity for a period of two years with an 80 per cent salary. Austria; use of paternity leave is possible for up to one year. Macedonia; the soldier gets 2 days off leave and can change his partner for 9 months – I say that instead of her he can benefit from justice, I didn’t think I saw a few smiles. [[…]] Serbia; it gets 7 to 10 days at birth and can change its partner for a period of one year and so on. Maybe the Swiss Confederation; the use of paternity leave is possible. The United Kingdom of Great Britain; fathers, soldiers, officers of the armed forces are entitled to 14 days of parental leave. Italy; the 2015 decree provided for paternity leave of up to 45 days paid leave to a child's third year of age and so on. But once again, we are governed by the Labour Relations Act, not a law that regulates the rights of employees only in the public sector. One of the discussers said that we have commanders who have “instant karma”; in fact, I do not understand these words, nor do I want to understand them, but I said what he felt about the evaluation of individual officers at the beginning of my introduction and I will not repeat it again. I see you don't respect it, but that's your right. I am not going into any conspiracy theory alone with the magazine Mladina, which was also exposed in the debate. We have touched on the specific powers of the Slovenian Armed Forces; once again, these are not police powers, we are talking about the specific powers of the Slovenian Armed Forces to support the police or the work of other state authorities. And this area is now better regulated in the new proposal for the Defence Act, including in cooperation with the Ombudsman and other competent authorities in this area. The talk was whether we could reach a political consensus; I think that citizens and citizens have their views on this, but so far all governments and all parliaments have proved that this is not the case, despite the fact that resolutions were in force, the strategies adopted by the government or the National Assembly, that we had a special law that would require the military to receive EUR 710 million between 2008 and 2015, but that was not the case. This government has also adopted a decision to provide an additional EUR 30 million each year and to follow a percentage of GDP, which is why I have also said that more resources will be available for 2018 than in the current budget; but how the next government will decide will again be a question. Once again – the defence budget amounted to EUR 339.9 million in 2014, 2015 amounted to EUR 343.9 million, in 2016 it amounted to EUR 389.2 million, 2017 406.6 million, in this year's planned EUR 435.6 million, we will increase by at least an additional EUR 10 million on the basis of the spring forecast of Umarje; the adopted budget for 2019 is currently due to the fact that the spring forecast of Umarja, planned for EUR 463.9 million, has not yet been taken into account. We can say that this is too little, but I am aware that these funds also need to be spent in a qualitative manner, and even in this context, all the project documents or documents needed to guide investments plan not to do anything as possible in the past. And we are gradually improving the ratio within the budget; in 2016, if we allocated 76.3%, 19.7% for current costs and 4% for investments in the Slovenian Wages Army, the ratio is significantly more favourable for wages of 62.9, for current costs of 21.1 and 16% for investments. And already the increase in funding in 2017 for an additional EUR 24.3 million was directly directed towards areas where the most recent assessment of the readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces showed the biggest breakthroughs. And once again, the funds have been invested for the purchase of ammunition to ensure the most urgent maintenance of technology, purchase of uniforms, protection equipment for soldiers, replacement of used ground vehicles, purchase of radio equipment, communication and information system equipment. And as of 2018, a larger investment cycle is also being launched, needed to establish the planned capabilities of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which are primarily – and this has been said many times – for the defence of Slovenia, while at the same time being part of the objectives of the capacity that we contribute to the Alliance. And that. Over the last three years, almost €21 million has been dedicated to providing basic equipment for members of the Slovenian Armed Forces – that is, buying uniforms, protective equipment for soldiers – and gradually eliminating the critical situation in this area. And as I said about the political consensus; nor has the Law on the Implementation of the Basic Slovenian Military Development Programmes in the period 2008-2015 been implemented. Every year we could spend €105 million on the Slovenian Army, totaling €710 million, and €121.8 million was realised. When I first spoke about the exemption from the public sector, I pointed out that we have a system of national security. That's what the President of the Republic said. We are not just talking about the defence system, we are talking about the Slovenian Army, the Slovenian Police and all those involved in the protection system against natural and other disasters. And it's just for one part or one subsystem to implement such tectonic different solutions overnight that I find slightly irresponsible. Without analysis, without objectives, what we are pursuing with a decision to take to exclude the Slovenian Armed Forces from the public sector without knowing what we are pursuing here – whether it is only by taking a certain right to pay them more for this, of course – and it is certainly appropriate, on the other hand, also irresponsible, if it is only one system or subsystem of national security. We talked earlier about how many employees there are in the Ministry. Since 2010, the Ministry of Defence has cut the administrative department by 20%. But I would like to point out that the Ministry of Defence in this issue, which you see in the data, has included the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection against Natural and Other Accidents with All Regional Centres, that there is an RS Inspectorate for Defence, that there is an RS Inspectorate for the Protection against Natural and Other Accidents, that there is also a Ministry of Defence Intelligence Service in here, that we have a number of colleagues abroad, in international jobs – we are talking about attachés and everyone else. And if you look at what those common services you probably have in mind — that is, legal service, human resources, computer science, health care, kitchen — there are 260 employees in this general sector. However, in 2014, we had a thousand 161 employees in 2015 a thousand 133 in 2016 a thousand 123 in 2017 a thousand 131 and in 2018 a thousand 117. It is said that we have reduced the number of employees in administrative work, even though we are aware that the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia must complete the regional information centres in order to protect and rescue, so that the work of inspectors and everything else must be ensured. There was a speech about the reintroduction of military duty. Nevertheless, I would like to point out; many times when I walk in the field, people ask me — especially the older ones, those in the army — my boy should also go into the army to teach him the order. I say the answer that, in my opinion, if we had made a referendum today on this issue, the Slovenian public would not have answered this yes-no-no-no-no-no. Even those mothers who say they have to send their son into the army to learn the order would end up surrounded by them when they should be surrounded. However, I would say that during this time – previously it was possible to volunteer military service for both boys and girls, many girls decided to do so, to be performed only in Vipava – so that it is now possible to do so in Murski Sobota, New Town, Vipava, Bohinska Bela, and if it is of interest, we will do so elsewhere. And that it takes 14 weeks of voluntary service, in three stages depending on the complexity, and that the payment for all is a thousand €405 net, and we will soon send a proposal to the Government to increase to a thousand €880 net. And once again, I suggest that all those who actually think about reintroducing compulsory military service at home with their sons or daughters sit at the table and agree, not say, the state has ordered you to join the army. It may also say this about training voluntary contractual reserves, only for 2017, that calls and training of members of the voluntary contractual reserve were carried out: military health units, 45th Guseni and combat vehicles centres and 16th air traffic control and control centres, while other PPRSs called for the performance of the individual’s annual obligations. Here too, it must be said that there have been no trainings for voluntary contractual back-up for a number of years. And that the Ministry of Defence, together with the Slovenian Army, organises student camps to participate in the military camp last year with 64 students and full-year students, has successfully completed 53 participants to participate in the MORS military camp and young people, completed by 89 of them, 35 of them girls and 54 boys, that the Slovenian Army military camp has been preparing for 18 years and took place in early July 2017, and is designed to train students and students from basic military content, to learn the profession of soldiers of the Slovenian Army and to develop patriotic values. You also probably know that we have changed the system of how to represent the Slovenian Army, that we have done a lot on those measures, how to bring the young men's profession closer to the soldier's profession, and that in this context we visit a lot of schools, middle schools, colleges – where of course we are allowed to go into space; I still point out that the principal can say that entering the uniform into school is not allowed – that we are at all major events, fairs, wherever we count on both parents and young people to move around and that we introduce the soldier's profession to them. And this proposal that you have made with regard to the increase in the hybrid reserve; it is also not possible to make this change overnight, just by reorganising the army, but only by amending the legislation. And in the framework of both draft laws, we have already proposed additional options for the so-called increase of forces, for voluntary training of citizens, and have also proposed an additional possibility to reintroduce individual elements of military duty. He used to be a speech about shoes; believe it or not, the Minister of Defence does not share the shoes of the Slovenian Army, not the uniform. I don't have time to go after the units in the morning and see if they're wearing shoes or not, and I don't care about warehouses. That's what the Slovenian Army does. And here – I think we were on the Defence Committee – I have also said that I have come to this point, but that it may be necessary to change the time in which the Slovenian Army member or member of the new equipment belongs. And the Chief has the task of reviewing it. I also told myself in the introduction — if the equipment is worn out, destroyed, it must be replaced. Perhaps she would like to use a few words to train or practice in the Slovenian Army. If we look at the period 2015, 2016, 2017, we had really fewer exercises at this time from 2015 to 2017, so there was a higher number of Slovenian Army members in the exercises – in 2015 two thousand 350, in 2016 3 thousand 841 and in 2017 3 thousand 834 – and the total number of days of field training increased: in 2015 there were 38 thousand 589, in 2016 51 thousand 746 and in 2017 56 thousand 961. And even if we are looking at the average number of days of field training per member or member of the Slovenian Armed Forces, in 2015 this was 5,47, in 2016 7,7 and in 2017 8,4. If we look at the number of bullets fired on a member of the Slovenian Armed Forces during the evaluation period, the data from 2015-2017 is also growing. For example, in 2013, the average number of bullets fired was up to 12.7 millimetres per member of the Slovenian Armed Forces 454.76, in 2014 441.20, in 2015 it fell to 323,80, in 2016 it was significantly higher than 2013 – 648,16 and in 2017 514,73. And given that there was a question of where we put the financial resources in addition to what was more intended to pay employees in the Slovenian Army If we look at larger purchases from 2012 to 2017 and somehow a plan for 2018 a common summary, I could say this. More purchases in 2012 were made of €10.8 million, more purchases in 2013 of €4.8 million, in 2014 of €5.8 million, in 2015 of €9.4 million, in 2016 of €12.9 million, in 2017 of €24.9 million, and in 2018 we are planning €66.6 million – but this is not yet included, which I think we will get further in view of the new economic growth assessment and accordingly I think that there will be 10 million additional resources available. If you look here at a summary of where the funds are being earmarked, I have said that investments in arms, military equipment, infrastructure have been gradually increasing since 2015, that we have started to gradually and objectively build capacity for the Central Battalion Battle Group, which I point out again that it is first – and this has also been said by the new Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces – for the defence of Slovenia and, as such, also recognised in the objectives of capacity in the Alliance. That in 2017 we completed the introduction of the communication and information system of command and control as an important segment within the Slovenian Army. In order to provide additional financing for the purchase of ammunition and mine-explosive assets during the period 2014-2016. These increased significantly in 2017 compared to the period mentioned above and increased further to EUR 4.7 million in 2018 compared to the previous year. That, for example, it has been delivered in the last two years, or in the process of supplying ammunition in a.56 millimetres for an automatic rifle for 11.7 million pieces, and I myself estimate that in the past, there was never more ammunition in stock than there is now. That we've delivered ground vehicles for general purposes in the last three years. We will have to invest in this in the future in order to achieve some of the goals of the R & D project. I've actually mentioned investments in combat uniforms and other protective equipment many times. I said that procedures for the purchase of a new vehicle 8x8 under the international organisation OCCAR are under way. For us, it's an interesting program called BOXER. Like I said, it's already a tested vehicle. It is used by the Germans, the Dutch, and ordered in Lithuania. It was tested in Afghanistan. Above all, it is important that the same price is for all Member States and that corruption risk is thus reduced. We have a back-up scenario, buying four-wheelers, but you've also talked about it at the last meeting of the Defence Committee, and it's probably not necessary today. If I were to mention that we are not speaking, as Ambassador Dolinšek said, just about the bad things, so that we can boast a little bit. As the Republic of Slovenia, we have ensured our share in ensuring the security of state borders and preventing illegal migration and strengthened joint efforts to ensure international security and contribute to peace in various crisis areas in the world. We have ensured an effective response in the event of natural and other disasters, thereby strengthening the security of citizens and also directly contributing to the reduction of the consequences of disasters. That we did the Strategic Defense Review, we already talked today. In order to stop the trend of falling defence spending, to ensure growth, I have already said. We have already said today that we have become involved in permanent structural cooperation in the field of the European Union. There has also been significant progress over the last two years compared with past years, and here Slovenia is among the most active members of Europe. We have raised the level of material perfection of the Slovenian Army and I have already mentioned ammunition, protection of equipment for soldiers, ground vehicles, uniforms and everything else. We have established conditions for the modernisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, prepared investment documentation despite the initial complications; now it has uniform support in the Slovenian Army and in the administrative part of the Ministry. I have said about the amended legislation that is in Parliament. We have also prepared the Critical Infrastructure Act, which has been adopted here in Parliament, which represents an important step forward in improving the resilience of the country and society in the event of certain security threats. We have completed the crisis management and management system in the Republic of Slovenia, which improves coordination and information in times of crisis and also provides for a more effective role for the National Security Council Secretariat. The Slovenian army has demonstrated by its operation and professional attitude of its members and members that it is responsive, effective and that politicians and citizens can always rely on it. And I will continue to repeat, I believe that members of the Slovenian Armed Forces are doing their job well. It is up to all of us, including the commanders, to the leadership of the General Staff, but above all it is up to the policy to enable them to develop further. We have said that we have increased the participation of the Slovenian Armed Forces in international exercises, that we have deployed the Slovenian Armed Forces contingent to Enhanced Forward Presence in Latvia to demonstrate the determination of the Republic of Slovenia and the readiness of the army to strengthen common security within the framework of the Alliance; I am talking about deterrence. The Slovenian Army also maintained the presence in other international operations at the level of approximately 350 members in 11 different international operations and missions in the Middle East, the Balkans, the Mediterranean, the Baltic, Africa. I don't need to tell you how successful we were in Operation Sophia. We're planning a rerun. I want an even clearer career system, and here, too, my expectations for the head of the Slovenian Army are great. At headquarters schools, we have trained over 100 officers and officers. We have restructured the strategic and operational level of command and control in the Slovenian Army, established the Force Command, started by reshaping the tactical part of the army – unfortunately not with the dynamics and in the way I wanted, but this is the decision of the Chief, the profession. At first I wanted to make a perfect tactical level, be a unit, not so much General Staff or top. We have managed with what we have already done to raise the personal benefits of almost 70% of the Slovenian Armed Forces; of course, I still estimate that more needs to be done, so both laws must be done, and that is why negotiations to eliminate the anomalies and also thus raise the salaries of employees in the Slovenian Army, as well as all others in the defence system. We have stopped the trend of declining voluntary military service, reached a gradual rise, which means an increase in the number of citizens who have received defence training and can also represent a staff base for the permanent or reserve composition of the Slovenian Army. And here again I appeal to young people to be convinced to join the voluntary service of the Slovenian Army. We have increased the number of Ministry members in various working bodies, projects or NATO and EU Command. During this time, we have sent an associate to work in the EDA, which will create an important area of European defence policy in the future and it is good that we have a man there. We have pursued the objective of sound management of movable and immovable property, but we have also discussed this at previous meetings of the Committee and, of course, at this parliamentary session many times. And there are still renewed strategic documents awaiting the fate of the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, so once again the call for you to decide whether to support them or not, so that the Ministry can proceed with other proposed measures. Thank you very much for your attention, honourable Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, we've all been notified. We have seven minutes left, please report to anyone who would like to discuss. It also applies to the Minister. [[advertising from the hall]] Press, please. Mrs. Maria Bachič, please. One minute. Thirty-eight. Here you go, Mrs. Bachich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u84	I'll be quick. Thank you very much. But I'll be very, very quick. I would just like to ask the candidates of today's extraordinary session. Do we really want to save the army, to help the army, or do we want to rescue the minister? I think that if we wanted to help the military, we would have adopted both laws and helped, so we would have benefited the military, and we would have improved the position of the army. I think that we have now completely disbanded and humiliated the army, and we have also upset all the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and this is not how we do it. We know that as everywhere there are problems, shortcomings in the Slovenian Army, which are actually being resolved within the army and saved by those who know this and not by those who do not know what military honour is. We have a good army, we have a successful army, and we can be proud of it, and we can also wear our uniform with pride. Here we could only touch on human resources — how young people should apply, how should they be motivated to apply for a military profession, if all newspapers are full of cold, torn, brown, and so on. If we do not change our attitude to our army, then the application will not be, but if we change — depending on us — our attitude to the army, give them recognition, I am sure that young people will actually apply for this profession. Our minister thinks she's very, very successful because she's acquired some funds for the military. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u86	Yeah, I don't have time like that, I have a minute and a half, but I have some facts to tell you. Minister, I remind you that the Slovenian Army is not just soldiers, officers, officers; there are very important civilians in the Slovenian Army. The Slovenian army also has lower and higher military personnel, which are an important support element for the Slovenian Armed Forces units, both in barracks and later on in the field and also in foreign missions. With this law you do not save anything for civilians, they are still undernourished; it is civilians who are leaving, highly professional, that is what I have told you today. I told you you were second-rate; I was always a gentleman, subtle to you as a woman. If there was a man on that side, I'd tell him something else. Now I'm gonna tell you why. The same government, which employs 8 thousand 300 public servants – in a year and a half, that means one army of public servants, the Ministry of Public Administration, 94% increase in the time of artificial intelligence, in time, we can say, the fourth industrial revolution, where these cities are shrinking where data is linked. [[…]] And look, this is how your colleagues in the government treated you. You see how they work with you today, Minister. These are your colleagues. So it's about priorities. And the priority of this government has never been the Slovenian Army. It's about cosmetic repairs that won't work. That was the essence of today's session. And those who have some idea, as well as those who are writing on my phone now, high officers, Slovenian Army deputies are the same opinion as we are in the Slovenian Democratic Party. That was the essence of the session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Andreja Katič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u88	Thank you. I would like to say that, for the first time, there are before you amendments or a new proposal for the Defence Act and a new proposal for the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. That I said it was just part of the solution. But please be clear whether you support them or not. The new chief told the material about the most important acquisitions of the Slovenian Army with these two laws. That the Slovenian Army has actively participated in the preparation of both proposals and that they support the bill. We can't make up one billion dollars in such a short time. But we should all be honest with each other. The recommendations you have made must be implemented through laws we do not yet have before us. But you have these two marriages ahead of you, and all the time, I've asked you to cooperate to improve them. And we can still do that. Let us therefore improve, let us take this first step, and surely the next government will be able to decide everything else. But once again – Slovenian members, members, all who are included in the Slovenian Army system, of course also in the kitchens and everyone else, all deserve our praise, a better position. We're saving part of it. However, there is certainly more to be done, but we are also waiting with other procedures because they are related to the new Defence Act or the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, which is why we appeal to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Applicant, please, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u90	Thank you very much. First of all, my dear colleague Maria. My signatures and signatures of my colleagues in New Slovenia are missing for the Minister's interpretation and will not be. As far as our recommendations are concerned, they are purely well-intentioned and are in favour of the Slovenian Army. But here's the proof. Today, my distinguished honorary cousin Prekmurec Alan Geder also presented his vision of how to solve the main problems of the Slovenian Army in the near future. The Minister of Defence, Andrei Katič, intends to propose measures, including wage increases and allowances. Watch out! The Slovenian army must step out of the single system of public administration, Geder believes, adding that the work of members should be taken into account both in salaries and in other remunerations because they do not enjoy the same rights as other citizens. Professional soldiers must be on standby 24 hours a day and cannot rely on certain tasks to be performed. Minister, Geder repeated our recommendation and you're rejecting it. You're rejecting him today. As far as the law is concerned. Please say again – please, Mr Vice-President, say to the Slovenian public whether you have support for these two laws in the coalition. If you do, raise the coalition flag tomorrow and we, the opposition, will follow you. Don't blame us, we're being held accountable. So let's make a deal in the coalition! You have been with us, once again, we have given you our comments, we have also indicated what our decision will be. Please tell me that the coalition has de facto decomposed and unfortunately there will be no more of these two laws. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-07-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude the agenda item and the 54th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I want a good night!
