ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 7th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened under Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Violeta Tomić, Lidija Ivanuša, Ferenc Horvath, Zvonko Černač, Alenka Jeraj, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko and Mag. Branislav Rajić. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda yesterday, 28 August 2018, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. 69 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On the agenda, this is a proposal for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. On 28 August 2018, the Group of 52 Members and Members, first signed by France Jurša, proposed that Branko Simonovic be elected Vice-President of the National Assembly. In order to complement the explanation of the application, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u2	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and respectable colleagues! In the Desus Group, we have decided to propose a member of our parliamentary group, Branko Simonovic, as Vice-President of the National Assembly. We believe that, given his career and personality, he will perform this difficult function with the greatest degree of responsibility and success. Branko Simonovic is an educated university graduate economist. Most of his career was in the economy. For 20 years he served as director of one of the most successful hotels in Slovenia – Delfin in Izola. For the past four years, he has been a deputy in Isolah, and in recent years he has also been a secretary of our party. Branko Simonovic is known as an advocate of democratic principles that aspires to tolerance and solidarity. It is characterized by persistence in the pursuit of the objectives set, and it is also characterized by the already negotiating coastal openness. We believe that colleague Branko Simonovic will perform this function successfully, so we have also proposed him for this function in our parliamentary group and the party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Jursha. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first Group of Members shall be cancelled. The second parliamentary group is Lista Marjan Šarca, for her Mr Robert Pavšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u4	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Today we accept and confirm the last position in Parliament's leadership. The LMŠ Group supports the proposal of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, as their proposal makes a generational, substantive and artistic rounding of the legislative body's summit. With the support of the representative of the opposition, whom we have already presented, with which we guarantee greater transparency and equal representation of the Vice-President, with whom a woman is also a leader of the National Assembly, we also support the proposal of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Branko Simonovic will also add an artificial and thus ensure that the National Assembly will be able to take the broadest content framework into account in its work. Members of the LMŠ will therefore be supported in the spirit of integration and compliance with this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u5	Mr. Pashovich, thank you. The Social Democrats' parliamentary group, mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u6	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Messengers and Members! Today before the final act – the completion of the leadership of the National Assembly, when we, I believe, elect its third Vice-President. This is very important not only for the effective work of this assembly to go forward, but also in a symbolic sense that we show citizens and citizens that we together, regardless of the already negotiating divisiveness, have been able to unify in the majority of our decisions that only with the full composition of the National Assembly can this work be done in the best possible way for citizens and citizens to take solutions. It is with today's election of the third Vice-President, the Secretary-General and the establishment of working bodies that we will conclude, if I say so, with this operational aspect of the functioning of the National Assembly, because it is time for us to start dealing fully and fully with substantive issues. We are confident that, on the basis of his experience and knowledge, Mr Branko Simonović, a candidate for Vice-President coming from the Desus Group, will serve well as Vice-President of the National Assembly. The work of leadership, as well as of all Members and Members, must be based primarily on respect for the rules of procedure, but we cannot fail that everyone, with his personal qualities, experience and knowledge, gives an important mark to the work and conduct of this national assembly. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that, despite and precisely because of the diversity of experience and knowledge, the generational differences that make up us will lead us, both well and in concrete and correct terms, through all the challenging challenges that lie ahead. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will confirm the candidate for Vice-President of the National Assembly and wish him good work in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Mursich. The last is the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, for her Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u8	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues, colleagues! In the Group of Members of the Party of the Modern Centre, we have decided to support Mr Branko Simonovic as a candidate for the Vice-President of the National Assembly. Almost three months after the parliamentary elections is the time, if not the time, for Parliament to be fully constituted. The National Assembly is perhaps more present than ever before in the face of major challenges that will undoubtedly require discretion and unconditional commitment to work from the new leadership. Several parties have crossed the parliamentary threshold in this reference and are calling for the tolerance, integration and search for a common language between all actors and the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly, which complements the already appointed team, can make an important contribution to this. Today's appointment of the third Vice-President of the National Assembly is an important step towards the success of the new team, with its experience and trust given to them, over the challenging tasks ahead of us in this mandate. The candidate for Vice-President Branko Simonovic shall demonstrate both leadership and political experience in his career. As a university-graduate economist, he also held several responsible managerial functions in companies, and he also obtained political kilometres as a mayor of the Izola municipality. As such, we consider it appropriate for the Vice-President of the National Assembly. Of course, we expect you, Mr Simonovic, as we do the other Vice-President and the President of the National Assembly, to be guided and wise as possible to limit the hate speech in this house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Zorcich. With this, honourable Members, we have ended by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion either. That is why we are moving on to the vote. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. The leaders of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded proposals for members of the panel leading the vote. These are Mr Franz Breznik, SDS Group, Mrs Andreja Zabret, LMŠ Group, Mrs Janja Sluga, SMC Group, and Mr Blaž Pavlin, NSI Group. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Deputy Secretary-General Jernej Bergoč will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to such a proposal and to the proposal for a commission? If not, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I note that the Commission is fully elected on the proposed composition. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the votes shall be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word “for” or the word “against”. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly visible. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate for the Vice-President of the National Assembly will be elected if voted for by the majority of all Members, 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask the Member of Parliament and the Member of Parliament to assist me in voting to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 13.20 p.m. and will last until 13.35 p.m. After the vote, I ask the Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 13.50 p.m. Thank you. (The sitting was suspended at 13.14 and resumed at 13.50.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We are moving on to the consideration of the interrupted 1st item, this is the proposal for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. I now wish to read the minutes on the outcome of the vote to elect Branko Simonovic as Vice-President of the National Assembly. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 29 August 2018. 78 votes were distributed, 78 votes were cast, 4 votes invalid, 74 votes valid. 67 Members and Members voted against by 7 Members and Members. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Branko Simonovic was elected Vice-President of the National Assembly by a majority of the votes of all Members. I congratulate the newly elected Vice-President of the National Assembly, Branko Simonovic, and wish him great success in carrying out this important duty. / applause/ I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda for today's extraordinary session. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision setting up and the tasks of the working bodies of the national assembly. The draft decree was tabled by the College of the President of the National Assembly. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Well, the kitchen already showed up when the main opposition party didn't get the Health Committee. This is the beginning of some typical operation of the National Assembly, where every day, before every vote and decision, a variety of strange dishes will be cooked, most of which will be indigestable for voters and citizens. The matter will, of course, be voted out, for most are the majority. However, I do not think that certain democratic principles are being followed here, which is the meaning of democracy, which is also the meaning of the National Assembly. What's really funny is voting someone out and giving someone else up and giving them the status of an opposition party that doesn't have one. This is also disputed by legal principles. Otherwise, the legal principles in Slovenia do not apply much. It's about some personal interests, personal interpretations of certain things. And that's bad for the country, very bad. However, this is the case in Slovenian politics. In Slovenian politics, it doesn't matter what the law says, because we have lawyers interpreting our laws. This is a unique case. You can interpret the Scriptures, you can interpret the Koran, you can interpret Buddhist religion, the law must be enforced, so the laws must be written clearly, excitely. It would be good if our graduates from the University of Dr. Edward Kardel from Ljubljana also learned something from Maria Teresa, who wrote clear laws, because the law had to be understandable to everyone. Laws are not yet comprehensible for lawyers in our country, so we also have two, three, four or five legal opinions on each law, which are all relevant or most relevant. But the one with the strongest political support prevails. I'm a little concerned about this way of working in the National Assembly, but that's how some decided. I hope people are watching this. I hope that they will remember that justice does not apply here in the National Assembly, the legal provisions do not apply, the agreements are not in force anyway, and I think that there will be very interesting debates here when other matters are discussed, decided, voted. I always thought a given word meant something sacred, but I think it's mostly a great rarity. With us, there is legalism and lies, just as there are legal pressures on certain people, barking and tracking, listening, controlling, and on the other hand some say that the worst thing is hate speech. There's no hate speech, there's just or stupid speech, there's an uneducated speech or there's a truth that hurts the most. And on the matter of the truth, the National Assembly will break down, just as it has several times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr Jelinčič, for presenting the Group's position. We have thus concluded with a presentation of the views of the Group of Members. I find that those who have been reported for discussion. I am voting on the proposal for a decree on the establishment and tasks of the working bodies of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin our vote. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] In this way, I can conclude item 2 of the agenda. We're moving to 3. Period of the day, it's on defensively mental-voluntary matters. First of all, we are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. In accordance with the fifth indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 21 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the College of the President of the National Assembly, at its 8th meeting, on 28 August 2018, adopted a decision setting out the number of seats of the members of the working groups in the working bodies of the National Assembly and determining the members of the parliamentary groups belonging to them as Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. In accordance with the decision adopted, the parliamentary groups made proposals for the presidents and vice-presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. In view of the proposals received, a proposal for a decision has been prepared which you have received and is published on the e-club. This brings us to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is by the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u13	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Given that you are in this function for the first time today, I wish you a successful and balanced work in this place. Nice greetings to all your colleagues as well! At the meeting of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, we distributed the Presidential and Vice-Presidential seats. What happened was what we were kind of expecting, and six parties to the coalition served to vote in this case. The current practice in the National Assembly has always been based on some mathematical calculation and a cut on this basis. This time I have to say it wasn't like that. At the outset, the position of the new President of the National Assembly, who served as the Legal and Legislative Service, was also very worrying and her opinion was considered irrelevant and argued that it could be read in different ways, despite the fact that the majority of lawyers have clearly expressed their position so far as to the position of the party of Levi. The fact that this was taken into account as a coalition was also evident from the first documents we had received at the meeting at the meeting, where the Left had already been taken into account with all the Presidential and Vice-President posts, such as the agreement within the coalition. After our protests, however, we agreed in some way that the opposition itself divided the cities you left behind in the coalition. After the consultation, it was found that both Levi and we want to have the Health Committee, I think that this is correct on our part, because in the previous term we led an investigative committee that has found many irregularities, and we would expect, after some Ferple, that within the opposition, the biggest opposition party will be the first to choose in cases where there is more interest in a job. This has been the practice of the past. But obviously, in this mandate, these practices are completely changing, and the coalition has made it clear that it supports Levica in leading the Health Committee, which is probably all right, but, as I said, this has not been the usual practice in the past. It was also very interesting that the coalition initially did not want the European Affairs Committee. Only later, when it was pointed out that this government would also preside over the European Union and that it would also be incomprehensible for Europe to be led by the opposition, did these committees change. The Constitutional Commission has also been in the hands of the coalition in all its mandates, and you leave it to the opposition in this case. The same applies to the Rules of Procedure Commission. In any case, the coalition has picked up all the working bodies that are in some way state-efficient and left the opposition – I am talking about the opposition that can divide some things – in most cases only the commission. According to the election result, it's pretty unbalanced. That the Left is in the coalition is also a clear signal when it is signed under the proposals for Vice-Presidents and other documents submitted by the Coalition all the time. If someone says now, because you have a chance, no one has offered to sign any proposal so far. This will obviously continue to lead to future problems of deceiving the status. I hope that similar voting will not take place constantly, because this will be very bad for democracy in the National Assembly as well as in Slovenia. We will not support the cutting of labour bodies, because, as I said, it is not balanced, it is not in line with the election outcome and, last but not least, it is not in line with the current parliamentary practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. Krivec, for your opinion. The next is the Left Party, in her name Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u15	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everybody! The confirmation of this Decision, which in fact means a cut in the management of the committees in the National Assembly, will mean that we can start working. The first step is to start very soon with one of the key tasks, this is with the hearing of ministers. It is right for these working bodies to be established so that we will thoroughly question these ministers and see what their vision is on the resources that they may lead. It has been expected, as has already been heard today, that there will be some sort of complication on this side and, above all, this artificially created – I will call it – the right opposition in recent weeks, that is, who really is the opposition. We have been here since the beginning of the negotiations on this status, especially by SDS gentlemen, when, at one of the first consultations, the entire right opposition threatened not to put any member on the supervisory commission, i.e. the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services and the Commission for the Control of Public Finances, unless Levica is defined as a positional or coalition party. At that time, we are in good faith to avoid these complications, simply give up one seat on the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services and also reduce the number of members of the Commission for the supervision of public finances by one city. This gave the right opposition the opposition majority without the Left in these commissions, and thus provided free hands when taking any decisions or exercising control over the coalition. But that wasn't enough. It ended up stuck in health care, where the SDS was blackmailing again, when he said, well, we're the biggest, two and a half times the size of the Left, which is why we own so many and so many committees and we want health care. This was the position of the SDS. I don't think you can get anything, and you can't get any more. We have also obviously received a response that this is a very important committee, and it is likely that Levica appears to be more constructive in this sense, that surely, like those who will chair this committee, we will be primarily the Ombudsman of Public Health, defending public health from attacks and from its further decommissioning, even from corruption and so on. Of course, this battle will have to take place with the opposition, I hope a little less with the minority government, but we never know. Of course, some questionable names are also included in this job cut. Certain proposals, which, although within the competence of the members of the groups, are unacceptable to Levica, in particular as regards Mr Jelinčič, who will be Vice-President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, although I think those books have not yet come back to the library of the National Assembly so as not to open the story of the Council of Europe. But well, this is also an indicator of what the elections say, one indicator of what the degree of self-reflection is within certain parliamentary groups. Of course, we cannot agree with such names in Levica. However, as I said at the outset, we will be able to start working for the first step to question the ministers thoroughly earlier. The left as the opposition will not be anything to be spared here, we will support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vatovec. The following is the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek, whose name is Marko Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u17	Thank you, President, for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u18	Wait a minute. Just a moment, please. Is it a procedural proposal or something? I'm very excited to have you help me run this, and I appreciate that. Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Well, I would only tell the gentleman from the Left that there is no Venezuela here and that these are the legal standards prescribed by the courts. It would make sense for us to learn about certain things and then discuss things, not just today, but in many cases talk when you do not know what it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u20	This is a controversy, this is not a procedural proposal, please do not abuse the rules of procedure. Thank you. Mr. Bandelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, in the Alenka Bratušek Party, we favour the regulation of health care and the promotion of pensions. In our discussions on the composition of the government, we have therefore proposed that our President, Alenka Bratušek, take over the coordination of the ministries of finance, health and social affairs. Before Alenka Bratušek became Prime Minister of the Government, she worked for the Ministry of Finance for 12 years. Half of this period was Head of the Budget Directorate. We therefore believe in the party that with its rich experiences in the field of public finances and with the unique experience of managing the country during the most critical period of our independence, we would also have a breakthrough in the regulation of the Slovenian health system and in the normalisation of the level of pensions. At the Alenka Bratušek Party, we did not put forward a proposal for coordination between the ministries of finance, health and social affairs just like that. Our coalition partners also recognise that it is essential to have an impact on the Ministry of Finance in order to regulate the health situation. Finally, this is confirmed by the intention that there will also be a person in the new government to coordinate these two ministries. The wish of Alenka Bratušek to take on the most difficult challenges of the new government has not been heard, so in the government we take on other resources, but our priorities remain the same. In the new government, we're going to demand that things be settled in health care and that pensions rise. This latter is also necessary for the existence of a pension system. If the pensions are low, no one will believe in intergenerational solidarity anymore. In the new government, we will therefore demand that at least what is due to Alenka Bratušek is recorded in the coalition contract: to increase the percentage of the pension benefit, to raise disability and widow's pensions, to set the pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner, and last but not least, that those who buy the first apartment and have a non-permanent form of employment will be given the opportunity to guarantee the state's renting state. All that is in the coalition contract solely because of our demands, as members of the coalition and the government we will actively defend. But the government is not the only place where the breakthroughs and progress are being achieved. Members of the National Assembly and the National Assembly have an important role to play. As I said before, we want a normalization of health care and pensions. In line with our priorities, we wanted to take over the leadership of the Health Committee, which then belonged to Levi. That is why we have chosen a committee responsible for pensions and social affairs. The Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek, will contribute to the Chair of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs. By leading this committee, we will be able to make the most of the interests of the pensioners and thus realize our priorities set out in the pre-election programme. [[advertising from the hall]] I'd like some respect, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, please allow Mr Bandelli to complete his presentation, as appropriate. Mr. Bandelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u23	The Committee on Labour and Social Affairs is also responsible for deciding to increase the percentage of pensions, for which we have already collected nearly 6,000 signatures of citizens and citizens at the stands in Slovenia in the previous term. We are prepared to work, our experiences and energy will be shared with our coalition partners, we believe that we will also succeed in the area of health and pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. Bandelli. As a last resort, the Slovenian National Party's Group, Mr Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti. Procedural again. Mr. Guilty, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u25	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I would like to make a procedural suggestion that you continue to hold an active debate from the first session, because we have now heard either a pre-election speech or an enabling speech, but there has been nothing on the subject that is currently under discussion; perhaps very little. So, in your best interests, I suggest that you have been actively carrying out your role as President from the outset, even in our case. My procedural proposal is that you stick to the Rules of Procedure and alert Members, especially at the beginning when they are not yet translated to talk about the topic on the agenda. Because otherwise, discussions will really be just reading some things that are already in the past. This was either a pre-election speech for the next election or a reading of the previous one.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u26	Mr. Krivec, thank you for your help. He said a new coalition was forming. [[Incomprehensible]] Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u27	After this cut, the Slovenian national party received four vice-presidents, which is, in fact, too much for a four-member group. Nevertheless, we will not support this proposal. We will not support it for one simple reason; because there has been a mess here that we simply cannot tolerate. It is a matter of transferring the Committee on Health from the opposition species, from the largest opposition party to the coalition side, to Levico. I, on the one hand, understand the coalition, why she did it, because she's definitely going to want to cover up a lot of things. There are so many pigs in health care that those in the opposition are hard to take off, while those in the coalition won't even want to. The businesses that have taken place will go to the detriment of patients, to the detriment of people, and I am sure that, after various phone calls to the chairman of this committee, positions will change, as certain positions have changed by this time. If I take only a case of a strong fight against the sale of NLB, which today is neither spirit nor hearing. Some of the gentlemen in the Left hurt that I'm the vice president in financial control. I know he's in pain, and I believe it can hurt him, because when we dig around, we're gonna dig up a lot, and when we do, we're gonna publish it and we're gonna take the report. And, of course, not that we're going to stop there, but we're going to go forward with any criminal charges that will certainly have to be initiated in contrast to what's been going on right now. There was a whole series of rallies in the National Assembly, in the government, so to speak, but nothing happened. Various declarations, declarations and final records of commissions were adopted, but nothing happened. And yet, to the Slovenes he goes abroad from companies, from the private pockets of the tithes, hundreds of millions of euros, and no one. No, of course not, because if someone offers someone 50 percent of a thousand euros, it's only 500 euros, if someone offers him 50 percent of a hundred million, it's 50 million, and then there's a lot of people thinking about whether it's gonna be quiet or if it's not gonna do anything. And there's something else about the hate speech. A hate speech is not an hate speech, it's just an opinion. Voters have the right to decide what they think about the speech of various Members. Just voters and no one else. But a false speech is more dangerous. And I've heard a lot of lies before. True, most of this false speech is based on ignorance, ignorance, and the lack of understanding of certain things. Perhaps in the years ahead, as long as this mandate lasts, some will become more aware that they will know what to understand, for it appears that this has not happened in the four years of the previous mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u28	I also thank you for Mr Jelinčič's last position. I take it that we are done with the presentation of the positions of the groups. With this, we are going to the debate of Members and Members of Parliament, with respect and respect. The first is Mrs Tina Heferle, to prepare Mr Marko Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u29	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I feel obliged as a university-graduate lawyer to explain to some colleagues who may be a little less educated that the legal rules are truly interpreted and not just read or, worse still, only enforce. Mr Miro Cerar would probably be able to explain this even more professionally as a professor, and I should explain only briefly to you that we know in legal theory a language explanation, a logical explanation, a systematic explanation, a historical, a telelogical explanation. And if we explain the concept of an interpretation of normative legal acts, it is a thought process that does not necessarily lead to one decision that is the only right one, but leads to several decisions that are equivalent. The task of legal science is to define all possibilities for the importance of legal standards. So much for that. With regard to the division of labour bodies in the National Assembly, I think the system here is clear to everyone about how working bodies are shared. The coalition chooses, divides the number of working bodies, the number of presidential and vice-presidential tables according to the number to which it belongs, this is a simple mathematical calculation and then selects the opposition. I was present at a working meeting with the President of the National Assembly, where the coalition initially explained which bodies it had chosen, and then the opposition was on its turn, and I must say that, as the first and only one, it had initially expressed the desire and willingness to lead the Committee on Health of the Left. The opposition then proposed a break for the purpose of agreeing on the opposition parties. In this interruption, the opposition party of the SDS also invited the opposition party Levica to talk to each other, and after a break, we suddenly came to the only conflict in the cutting-off of working bodies, which is with the Health Committee. In view of the fact that the opposition could not agree on its own, the coalition parties took this initiative and distributed it as they had divided. However, I must say this, that I do not think there is anything unjustly divided in view of the fact that we have to stress that opposition parties have more precisely SDS, the Presidency of the Commission on Public Finance Control, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, the NSI has a Presidency of the Committee on Justice, and, as far as I know, these are some state-of-the-art committees, so I do not see any mistrust by the coalition. You've received such committees that you can do a lot of things if you will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Hefferle. At the same time, I inform you that Mr Marko Bandelli has given up the debate, so it is Dr. Franz Duck, get ready for Mrs. Jerca Korča.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u31	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! It all shows that I'm going to be one of the most popular, most hated people in this national council, which I'm very happy about. I will begin in the way that an American Republican who recently died in some presidential elections, when the supporters of his camp began to speak very badly about the anti-candidate, said: "Wait, stop the horses, Mr. Anti-candidate is a respected person, he is a wonderful family father and so on." I am very pleased that on the committee in which I am supposed to chair, there is also a colleague of Jelka Godec who, after all, worked very hard and worked on a previous reference with a team working on that investigation. Basically, I am doing a service to the SDS because the Chair is a limited, Chairman-in-Office, Chair, colleague Jelka will have more time to discuss substantively and they could thank me from the SDS as a result. If we are talking about the truth, Mr Jelinčič, first truth, Article 297 of the KZ knows the hate speech, but you are such an experienced Member that you should know; perhaps this break was 7 years too long, I don't know, or too short, I personally think it was too short. If we move on. I wish, of course, that our executive power would be more structured as it is in the Swiss Confederation. It's one of the few things I like about it. They have turned this sectoral division into seven horizontals, where you have seven major ministries, and between those seven ministers and ministers, it is chosen who will be the first one year among the same, presidents, let's say, the government, although they call it a little different. According to the egotrips of some people, Slovenian politics would probably kill each other in this regard. That way, we'd have fewer committees and committees, or you'd want more of your mother's work bodies. In the current way we have it now, we have 21. One commission goes to a colleague of the Italian or Hungarian communities, with 20 remaining. 6 of them have SDS plus the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Tank, who I hope, because he knows very well what the rules of procedure are for him to be a strict Vice-President. After 18 years, it would be time. In short, the SDS won one third, although it did not receive one third of the vote. If we're already talking about the truth, because after basic education I'm a science-mathematic technique, the direction of applied mathematics. So let's talk about the truth and let's raise the debate in the National Assembly to a noble level, sir, which you are calling yourself noble, that there will be no temple of democracy an empty floscule. And to the end. Whatever I teach, I tell my students not to make a basic methodological error, not to conclude on the population. No one's gonna call the duck, no one's gonna order money to vote in the National Assembly, unlike some of the old politicians. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u32	Mr. Duck, thank you for your opinion. Was the hand up? She wasn't. Then I find that the next Mrs Jerca Korča is preparing the mag. Dean Kaloh. Mrs. Jerca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u33	Thank you for your word. It is difficult to speak for the first time in the temple of democracy after, in my opinion, the best rhetoric this Parliament has. The key problem with the opposition party SDS is that the Left doesn't want it in the opposition; that's how I see the situation. And that's your problem, the problem with the opposition that you took, that the opposition is the right hand and that the Left does not belong to the right. That's the first thing. We know several types of opposition, one of which is also a constructive opposition. The Left has taken a position or decided – however, these are political decisions, which in my personal opinion are not always legal – that there will be opposition and that in certain cases there will be constructive opposition to move some things forward in the country. [[advertising from the hall]] The agreement was signed, yes. The agreement was signed. It can be signed with anyone else at any time if some do not stand up to the principle of opposition. Because the constructive opposition is the one that comes with alternative proposals, and if anything - and I have followed the policy and also the functioning of the National Assembly - I know that the Left will come with alternative proposals, as it always comes to meet the four key issues that the opposition must have, namely that it will be critical to exercise control, to put in place alternative proposals and to represent certain social groups, interest groups that the Executive Branch of the Government, the Government, sometimes does not hear. I mean, in my personal opinion, the Left is a classic opposition party. That's my opinion. You can have a different one because you don't want them in the opposition. The way the committees were divided, the commission, anyway, they split up. We need them to start working. I was also monitoring a pre-election event. I think, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food of the SDS – this is it. Your jumbo posters and all the things before the elections were also intended to save the Slovenian farmer, the opportunity. The Committee on Home Affairs – about your election posters in this place may not be possible, but I think this is a very important committee. Justice, health, culture, all this is opposition, so I don't know if there is a need for this Parliament to disagree in forming committees because things are okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u34	Mrs. Korce, thank you for your opinion. Now it's mag's turn. Dejan Kaloh, Mr. Aljaž Kovacic is preparing. Mr. Kaloh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u35	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members and all those who look at us in this session! Mrs. Korce was now a top-notch lawyer of the Left. It's very interesting that she has so much support for the opposition party. Once again, the SDS as the biggest opposition party simply does not belong to enough jobs in the working bodies. This is contrary to voting in the elections and to the composition of Parliament itself. If that's what you want to hear or not, that's the facts. I'd like to remind you of the winter manipulation of the Left, but that's the way it goes. After the status in Parliament, it is actually a coalition party, a de facto coalition party. Not only has this been defined by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, but also the first among the same has actually trampled this opinion, which is of course sad. Let's say we have six coalition parties, not five plus one, which is some media manipulation served by the Left. We have six parties to the coalition; including Levica, of course. A party that contributes decisive votes to the coalition and is also signed under the so-called project agreement, my dears, what is this other than a constitutional member of this coalition? In addition, they have signed the agreements in question, some annexes, all of which bind them to the coalition contract. Once again, the Left is a de facto coalition partner. With this status, Levica will probably manipulate the year, on the right, if necessary, for her daily political needs, so that she will appear clean, beautiful before her constituents, and, as Mrs Korča says, "constructive opposition". But this government six is nothing more than a guarantee that Slovenia will only go down the clan, it will go back in all areas, especially where Levica will have her presidents in her working bodies, Mr Trček – in health and culture. Take my word for it after the end or in the middle of this term, so we can understand each other. However, I would like to point out a committee — for culture — taken over by the Left. My dear colleagues on the other side, it is said on the opposition side, in the temple of democracy there is no written label, but, man, it would be appropriate, minimum decency would require that at least we walk in some speakers, perhaps without a tie, but certainly not in T-shirts with the images of dictators, Miki Mizka, other comic characters. But this is still a bit of a pain in the ass to this temple of democracy. I just want to conclude in the context of the cultural committee in the previous term. The Committee on Culture will, in conjunction with the envisaged Minister of Culture, coming from the quotas of the Social Democrats, in my opinion, impoverish the culture. Look at what happened to the Exterior Music Project Carmina Slovenica from Maribor, they actually took them away, took their funds away, and I think that under your leadership this committee will be associated with the current Minister of State. In short, let me finish. We didn't get, our party as the biggest opposition party didn't get enough jobs in the working bodies and the manipulation of the Left won't be ignored, they're the sixth coalition partner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u36	Thank you, Mag. Kaloh. I have a feeling we have a replica and a procedural one. Procedural, Mr. Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u37	Thank you, Chairman. I protest to discredit Levica as a carrier of certain policies in a personal style in terms of dress and so on. Even more so, because we are besieged by expressions such as dictators, that we wear dictators on shirts and similar nonsense. In this National Assembly there is only one dictator and he sits in the first seat of the third kind of right block, his name is John Janez Janša, so that in Levica we were and remain these sworn Democrats as socialists. [[…]] Democratic socialists. And let us not let ourselves be discredited in such a cheap way.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u38	I'm asking you, too, to refrain from making an enemy speech. Now the replica, Dr. Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u39	Thank you for your word. Apparently, my neighbor on Koroška Street, Mr Kaloh, did not understand whether he had forgotten the basics of mathematics. Of the 20 working bodies of the National Assembly, 6 will be chaired by the SDS, which is 30%, which is more than the SDS received vote. I invite you to my house for a glass and we'll repeat the basics of mathematics. Thank you for your word. Look, I'm already in the gang. I'm ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u40	All right. Invitations are present, too. Thank you very much for inviting someone else. We have Mr Aljaž Kovacic's resignation, and Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik is coming, and Mrs Natasa Sukić is preparing. Mrs. Mirnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Above all, welcome to Maribor! I have to say, I'm a little confused when I listen to my predecessors from my left here, it's from SDS, and I don't really understand what they want. I'll explain why I don't understand. I don't want to know how many committees set up for some reason, because they're the most honest and even the most fighting for this country, and we're all the losers we're protecting, I don't know who everyone is. I've been here for two months, two months listening to verbal conflicts between the left and right. In doing so, the gentleman who will not vote in favour of the proposal will be very helpful, even though he himself will become vice-president of the committee, where he will even publish the pigs, you will not believe, and he will get more than he owns, which he himself has acknowledged. Then understand who the sea is. [[…]] Therefore, my proposal is very simple and very simple: let's start working. Because people who look at us don't care, they really don't care; they don't care about your personal offenses, they don't care about your personal maturity or your immatureness being part of your professional function, but they're interested in the results, so please, let's start doing thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u42	Mrs Mirnik, thank you for your opinion as well. Since there are a lot of reviews, I want to read who else is reported to see if the list I have is accurate. Mr Rudi Medved, Mr Luka Mesec, Mr Brane Golubovic, Mr Robert Pavšić, Dr Matej Vatovec and Mr Daniel Krivec are also reported. Does he keep that list? Thank you very much. Mr. Rudy Bear has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Today was the signing of the Coalition Treaty and there was no party to the Coalition Treaty. For us, therefore, the international coalition treaty and the signatories under this coalition treaty are considered to be opposition on the basis of pure formal reasons in the coalition types of Levico. For example, the President of the Government was confirmed in this National Assembly by 55 votes, one more than expected. The Left has announced these voices in advance, and no one has researched them, and in the end, it is not for a right-hand voice to think that the Right-wing might be part of the coalition. Just as an explanation. Otherwise, the mathematical calculation has shown well that opposition parties have more presidential and vice-presidential positions than the coalition, but there is no record of who is actually to lead the Health Committee. Some commissions are clearly stated in the Rules of Procedure that they are led by opposition parties, and there is no explicit record for the Health Committee that, if it already belongs to the opposition, if the opposition could not agree with each other, it should belong to a particular party. I myself will support this cut of committees and committees of the National Assembly accordingly.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u44	Thank you for your position, Mr. Bear. I would like to inform you that there are several more reviews, so only Mr Robert Pavšič and Mr Daniel Krivec have been reported. Mr. Pawswich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u45	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. The process of cutting committees and commissions was transparent and involved by all or all of us. As it will be, he accepted the college and we are all represented in college, as voters voted. Each decision by vote is a vote whether it be for one vote or two votes or more. So by reaching some consensus, it seems impossible on the one hand and on the other side of the opposition, so the middle, as I have defined last time, had to cut in between to decide for you. We were branded left-wing lawyers. If we take a parable from sports, we're opponents, but I hope we're not enemies. And if we are opponents, we can work constructively together, but if we hate each other — I don't know what we'd hate each other for — then we won't make any progress. That's all I wanted to say. I will, of course, support this cut because I think it is fair, because Mr Trček has also proved mathematically that it is more than fair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u46	Thank you for your position, Mr. Pavšič. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u47	Thanks again for saying that. I listened carefully to further explanations. Ms Tina Heferle, as Vice-President, has cooperated and has initially given us some education, which I think some Members who have been doing so for a long time will probably be happy to hear it further or not. So as far as this is concerned, it was very contradictory. [[…]] She talked about respect for the rules, respect for the law and so on – since this opinion was not written by the SDS, this opinion, which was on the table, was written by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, where there are several lawyers and were probably judged in several respects, as you have warned. Their opinion was on the table. I hope that you will have the same opinion as before when we adopt another legislation and you will refer to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. At that time, we will be happy to roll a magnetogram, where you all say it's an irrelevant opinion. So these things are very dangerous if they're interpreted that way. It was also very instructive how you explained the procedure. The fact is that we did go to the opposition to the consultation – New Slovenia was also there, which you forgot to mention, unfortunately there was no SNS because they did not have a representative. It is true that you have found that in the end there were two wishes to lead the Health Committee, but never in this parliamentary practice has the coalition decided on behalf of the opposition. There has always been a rule on how to guide this committee in these cases. It is now the first time in parliamentary practice – and that is what you have said nicely – that the coalition has decided and determined who will lead this committee, which is further proof that it is a coalition, not an opposition. Despite trying to convince everyone that the opposition and the constructive opposition are, in this case, the opposition should deal with each other either with the draw or whatever. This was the usual practice if it did not prevail that a committee which is in the interest of two parties is chosen in some order. Until now, however, the coalition has never decided what the opposition will lead. In this case, you have decided on both committees what they will lead, and this is no longer an opposition party. With each step you take, further confirm what the Law-Legal Service has written. I agree with my colleague Trčko, we have received an adequate number of presidential and vice-presidential posts by mathematical model. We were talking about content. You all know that certain commissions get the opposition, and that's logical, there's nothing against it. However, I have said that, in practice, the conduct of the Constitutional Commission and the Commission for the Rules of Procedure has never been left to the opposition. That is why we point out these facts, which have not been in parliamentary practice so far. This is the most problematic fact, however, that it is not respected at the beginning of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and that the coalition decides on behalf of, in the notes, the opposition party, which otherwise can convince us yet, I don't know, all day with the debate, but the facts speak otherwise. So here we see the problem of continuation, and in other cases, when there was a distinction between coalition and opposition, there will be similar problems, or you will always claim to be an opposition party, with every fact on the table, with each vote, and with each document you prove that it is part of the coalition. We just can't avoid it. We all know that the cut is some mathematical model, we respect that, but we don't agree that someone thinks that we are, I don't know, some figure on the chessboard with which everyone can sweep the way they want. In this case, the coalition has enjoyed a lot, which has not been the custom in the past parliamentary practice, and you are admitting yourself in your deliberations, which is even better.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr. Krivec, for your position as well. With this, honourable Members, I note that the debate is closed and we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. We're voting. Excuse me, we have an explanation for the vote. On behalf of the MP? Here you go, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're giving you a chance, a respected coalition of six parties. You have a lot of responsibility. But you can allow me to express my disappointment that, as far as the committees of the National Assembly and the Commission are concerned, everything will be the same. And if it's all the same, it means we're not moving forward to step in. Why? We have been saying for years that it would be good for the National Assembly to form, for example, a committee for the future. There was a consensus in the previous term, yes, and it will be in the next term. According to some good practices of some European parliaments, the national parliaments of the European Member States would be good to set up a committee on the digital economy and society, but we are not or are not. Everything's gonna be the same. Well, to be mathematically exact, it will not be all the same, in some way I must welcome the cosmetic correction of the name of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, because with monetary policy we do not actually have, since we took over the euro, nothing. But the priorities of this coalition are, although I have not yet read the coalition treaty, the health of citizens and citizens. Usually, until now, if memory doesn't deceive me, this committee was led by a coalition, ergo, so Levitsa is a coalition. And, Mr President, I would like to help you here, and New Slovenia would like to help everyone, because, as you yourself have determined, if we start our work – and I agree, we need to start working – we will not tell exactly who the coalition is and who the opposition is. And you speak many of the coalition and write the truth on your work materials: Left is a coalition. Then you tell this truth lapsus, but according to Freud's psychoanalytical theory, lapsus is an act for which a subconscious desire is responsible. So Freud about the coalition. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we need to clarify this issue, i.e. the status of the Left. I respect my colleagues and colleagues, but this will be an obstacle to the entire mandate, and I want it to be four years, let's get this straight. However, as far as our votes are concerned, of course we cannot support this decision, we cannot support it, and we regret that we have not previously cleared up these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u50	Mr. Horvath, thank you for your opinion. Mr. Turček, Ducky, I apologize, procedurally. Doctor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u51	Look, President, I've had enough of this kind of insult. There is no sin to be ignorant. It is a sin to persist in ignorance. 30% of EU countries have a minority government, Denmark has had a minority government more than half the time since 1901. The aunts even published a very good study on this, you can find it on Facebook under my name Franc Duck Unscrupulous. So let's read this first, and then let's get serious about it, because you're acting essentially like a fool out of yourself. You can do this, but I won't let you make fun of me or the Left. Therefore, I ask you to give a reminder to a gentleman who has a very long parliamentary mileage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u52	There will be no warning. We have heard your proposal. Does anyone else want to speak on behalf of the Group of Members? Dr. Vatovec, please, Mr. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u53	Thank you, President. Because – and let this be the beginning of the explanation of vote – it is possible to read the opinion of the Law-Legal Service referred to by representatives of the right opposition today, so translated into: If you have to be against everything. I think that this is a sufficient reason or an interpretation for us not to have to divide ourselves into coalitions and opposition in this way, because, in fact, no more opposition is needed, because one majority should be. But let's just leave it. Now regarding the logic of his colleague Horvath, he said that the Health Committee was something that should belong to the coalition and that he could not vote in favour of [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u54	Mr. Vatovec, an explanation of the voice of the delegation, not a replica, not a controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u55	Yes, yes, it's crucial to my explanation. But the logic is that if the Health Committee is something that belongs to the coalition, then the party that has this committee is a coalition party. So if the SDS got this committee, the SDS would be a coalition party. So much for this absurdity that we've been going around all the time. However, I must also admit that I am saddened that this decision will not receive broad support. Yesterday, there were 7 out of 8, 7 out of 9 parliamentary groups present for such a decision or for such a cut of cities, including the NSI, but today apparently there is no longer this courage to insist that they have finally agreed with the LMŠ to replace the EU Committee on Justice, but well, this speaks again of some other matters. In Levi, we will support this decision, I think it is the basis for us to start working in this House, and I think it also clearly indicates the status between the coalition and the opposition in this House. Gentlemen of the right opposition, let's face it this time that Left is the opposition party and that we will be on your quota.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u56	Dr. Vatovec, thank you also for your discussion or position. Does anyone else want to speak on behalf of the Group? I guess not. Does one of the Members or Members want to explain the voice? Mag. Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u57	Dear Members and Members! I will vote against this decision because this Parliament is simply gaining too many officials. If you look at the figures as they are, and if you go into the decree to be adopted today, and in the conclusion, you find that as of today this Parliament receives 20 committee presidents, 37 vice-presidents, 10 leaders of parliamentary groups, 11 deputy leaders of parliamentary groups, one president and three vice-presidents of the National Assembly. When you add it up, you get to 82. So there are 82 members of Parliament and members of officials. This is unacceptable to me, so I will vote against it. The day before I was leading the Parliament, my main proposal was that the number of committees should be reduced to number 13 and that committees and commissions no longer have one vice-president. Why committees have two or three vice-presidents, Members and Members of Parliament know exactly. In particular, those who have recently been extremely intensely attacking me on certain things that I have proposed in Parliament know very well. But you won't believe one thing when I suggested at the council that we reduce the number of committees to 13 and reduce the number of vice-presidents – you know who was first against it? It's an emissary group of Lefts. So much for that and so much for principle.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u58	Mr. Tonin, thank you for your opinion. Mr. Luka Moon, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u59	Thank you. I suggest you mag. You're giving Matthew Tonin a warning because it wasn't a position, it was a controversy with the Left. But that's all I'm gonna say. Matthew Tonin, as the main argument, used the argument that Parliament would get more officials to vote against the decision which his party was party to yesterday and confirmed it to the college. But three minutes earlier, their leader of the parliamentary group had said he would vote against it because there were not two additional new committees set up in the same National Assembly. So, remember, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u60	You made a procedural proposal. Nor will there be a reminder this time, even though I have wondered whether this is usually the content behind closed doors, in order to come out in a coordinated manner, the subject of the debate here. But there are more Members and Members in this way today, and because there have been no reminders before this, there will be none. Thank you. Mr. Jelinčič, an explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I'll vote against it, too. The reasons are about the same as Mr Tonin said. I agree with his leadership when he proposed a reduction in the number of Vice-Presidents and a reduction in the number of Vice-Presidents. I also agree with his proposal to reduce the number of Members in individual working bodies. I think this will lead to oversatisfaction and, above all, tiredness when some are sitting and napping on certain committees and will listen to the many-time speakers of some Members. Otherwise, I don't know, I don't think there's much more to say, but the only thing I have to say is that law is not science, the law is knowledge, so at least Slovenian language and Slovenian logic proves it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr. Jelinčič, for your position as well. I suggest we move to the vote. Members and Members of Parliament, I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 20. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 20.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This concludes this part of today’s work in the National Assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the draft decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. On the basis of the decision to determine the number of seats of members of the working groups of the National Assembly and to determine the groups of Members belonging to them as Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly, adopted at its 8th meeting, on 28 August 2018, the College of Presidents of the National Assembly, communicated proposals to the President, the Vice-President and the members of that Commission. In view of the proposals received, a proposal for a decision has been prepared which you have received and is published on the e-club. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The only parliamentary group is calling off the debate and we no longer have it, so there is no position on the Group of Members. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the debate of Members and Members of Parliament. We've got eight reported. They all checked out. So I also conclude this debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for a decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services. In doing so, I inform you that, on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services, a decision will be taken if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. Dear Members, we begin our vote. No, no, no. Explanation. Dr. Runczek, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u63	Thank you for your word. You are well aware that I am well aware of the history of the KNOVS in its previous term of office, where it has been rigorously abused. You know very well that the official agents of the Owl are still on strike today, even though these agents, in practice, are basically unable to do so. You are well aware that we need an urgent overhaul of this part of the security system. And now, if I go to look, Mr Tonin will be chairman, unless he gives up on these performances today. Mr Mahnic will be Vice-President, Mr Trinitarian, Mr Ivan Janez Janša will be inside. Let's be honest, this commission is lost for this mandate. Given the history of this commission from the previous term, I cannot help but announce that we will vote against it in Levica. Not because we would have anything against such or other coalitions or opposition, but because in this composition of the commission, frankly, too many people, who may even be, this is my personal opinion, would not even have earned passive electoral rights anymore, let alone been in such an important committee of the National Assembly. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u64	Anybody else want to explain their voice? If we don't, we're going to the vote. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 68 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against 10.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing the Secretary-General of the National Assembly. On the basis of the second paragraph of Article 25 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the proposal for a decision was submitted to the College of the President of the National Assembly, which proposes to appoint Ms Ursula Zore Tavčar as Secretary-General of the General Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the President of the National Assembly of Magi. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u65	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! At its meeting yesterday, the College of the President of the National Assembly unanimously supported the proposal that the current Secretary-General of the National Assembly, Mrs Ursula Zora Tavčar, be appointed to this function also in VIII. the term of office of the National Assembly. Mrs. Zora Tavčar in the National Assembly is not an unknown name. Among other things, she has worked for several years in the field of international relations and international cooperation of the National Assembly as Secretary of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly, certain international organisations and as Head of the International Department and for several years as Secretary of the Committee on Foreign Policy. In 2013 she also took over the management of the Department for the Preparation and Implementation of Meetings of the National Assembly and the working bodies. In addition to her regular work, she worked all the time in various project groups of the National Assembly. She has already been elected Secretary-General of the National Assembly in her previous term, i.e. VII. the mandate of the National Assembly, from 2014 to 2018. During that period, it proved to be both good cooperation with parliamentary groups and listening to proposals and improvements relevant to the work of staff in the National Assembly. It is clear that it is particularly aware of the importance and function of the legislative body, including the importance of the autonomy of the legislative branch. At the same time, it is characterized by an approach to finding innovative solutions, a determination to regulate possible open issues, as well as a vision to improve the working environment. By her work and attitude, she has shown so far that she is the Secretary-General of all employees and of all Members and Members, irrespective of their coalition or opposition definitions. I am sure and believe that this opinion is shared with me by my fellow Members, who immediately unitedly supported this proposal, that the candidate has the appropriate professional and organisational skills and appropriate experience, as she is very well aware of the procedures and work of this institution because of her long-standing professional work in the National Assembly. Following this, my fellow Members and colleagues, I propose that you support the proposal of the College of the President of the National Assembly that Mrs Ursula Zore Tavčar be appointed Secretary General of the National Assembly in this regard, VIII. the term of office of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your explanation, Mr. President. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first word is "Delegation Group LMŠ", followed by Dr. Darij Krajčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u67	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Secretary-General of the National Assembly shall organise and coordinate the work of the services in the performance of the duties and tasks for the National Assembly, its working bodies, its working groups and its Members, ensure the uniform functioning of the services and ensure the development of the organisation of work. During the first two months, as far as we are in this National Assembly, we have learned that Mrs Ursula Zora Tavčar, together with her team, has made it possible for the work of the National Assembly to be smooth and smooth, and in particular all the services performed on a high level. In the LMŠ Group, we therefore believe that Mrs Ursula Zora Tavčar is a person with relevant professional and organisational competences and appropriate experience, because he is very well aware of the procedures and work of this institution because of his long-standing professional work in the National Assembly. Above all, we must highlight its high professional, personal and professional attitude, the exceptional knowledge of the procedures for the functioning of the National Assembly, and the wider trust it enjoys both between employees and Members. That is why we will unanimously support the candidate in the LMŠ Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Dr. Kryczych. Mr Bevk alone has the following word for the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u69	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! The work of professional and support services in the National Assembly is indispensable for the smooth functioning of Members and Members and the National Assembly as a whole. Sometimes we take it for granted and may not give it sufficient validity and respect. The seat of the Secretary-General or the Secretary-General of the National Assembly shall be that responsible function which, on the one hand, leads and directs the professional and support services of the National Assembly and, on the other hand, cooperates closely with Members and Members, in particular with the President of the National Assembly. On the proposal of the President, Mag. Dejana Židana, College of Presidents of the National Assembly yesterday, decided to propose to Members and Members that we appoint Mrs Ursula Zore Tavčar as Secretary-General of the National Assembly. The candidate has already served very well as Secretary-General in the last term and, as assessed by the Group of Social Democrats, has justified the confidence of Members and Members. Multi-annual work experience in various responsible jobs in the National Assembly and, as a result, good knowledge of Parliament's functioning are certainly its advantage. We know our co-worker Ursulo Zore Tavčar as a conscientious and trustworthy co-worker who invests a great deal of energy in solving various problems, and especially in good interpersonal relations, which, according to our assessment, is a key basis for the good cooperation of all those in the National Assembly. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are confident that the candidate will be a match for all the challenges that lie ahead of us in this mandate and we believe that we will participate in the future. Mrs Ursulo Zora Tavčar will be unanimously supported in our Group and we wish her a successful work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Bevk. The next one has the word Monika Gregorčič for the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u71	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we unanimously support the decision of the President of the National Assembly to appoint Mrs Ursula Zore Tavčar as Secretary-General. It is crucial that the position of Secretary-General be occupied by a person who is well aware of the procedures and functioning of the National Assembly and who carries out his work in a committed manner while enjoying the support of both the parliamentary group and the support and professional services of the National Assembly. In the SMC Group of Members, we are convinced that Mrs Ursula Zora Tavčar has all the necessary expertise, as well as managerial and organisational experience, and, at the same time, because of her long-term work in the National Assembly, she is well aware of the functioning of this institution. All of this has already been demonstrated by the candidate when she served as secretary-general in the previous Assembly. Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party therefore express our united support for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u72	Thank you very much. The following is the word of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Jurij Lep.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u73	Madam President, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Ursula Zora Tavčar is a longtime staff member of the National Assembly, where she has worked hard and gained experience in various jobs, so we have supported her four years ago and we will support her today. Mrs Zora Tavčar is highly professional, the National Assembly has, so to speak, a small finger, she has always been correct, accessible, kind, and with proper listening to Members and also here staff. Ursula Zora Tavčar deserves our support, so we will reconfirm her as Secretary General of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Nice. I give the floor to Mr Zmaj Jelinčič Trimenite on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u75	Well, I'm not going to read like my prefaces, 'cause I can think of something. We will support Mrs Ursula Zore Tavčar, I think she is an appropriate cadre, a good cadre, a reliable cadre and will work in the interests of the National Assembly as before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-29-SDZ8-Izredna-07.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Jelinčich. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since there are no applications for discussion, I am concluding the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mrs Ursula Zore Tavčar as Secretary-General in VIII. the mandate period. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 Members and Members of Parliament voted against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I congratulate the Secretary-General of the National Assembly and wish her a successful job! / applause/ I hereby conclude the 3rd item of the agenda and the 7th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. The meeting was closed on 29 August 2018 at 15.15 p.m.
