ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 18th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Bevk only, Jani Ivanuša mag. Matthew Tonin, mag. Branko Grimes, Franz Kramar, mag. Bojana Muršič, Anja Bah Žibert, Jože Tanko, Primož Siter and I will be away from 11 a.m. myself. I've invited representatives of the government to the meeting, and I welcome them very much! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 18th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Thursday 20 December 2018 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I inform you that we have not received any proposals to extend the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference to the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a decision. Please check the operation of the voting devices. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 18th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law amending the act on the recovery of damage to persons who have been removed from the permanent residence register. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the Minister, if he wishes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At the presentation of the draft law amending the Law on the Compensation of Damage to Persons Deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations, which was submitted to you by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I already pointed out in the National Assembly that I was familiar with this issue at the time of handover when I took over the duties of Minister for Home Affairs in September. Virtually every Minister of the Interior in Slovenia has dealt with this subject in his mandate, and I believe that everyone has come to the conclusion that this content is legally and politically complex. That is why I am pleased in some way that your discussions so far have shown that the proposal for amendments to the compensation law, with which the Government is trying to remedy the finding of non-compliance with the Constitution, has met with the approval of the majority in this national assembly. That decision of the Constitutional Court gave the legislator the opportunity to adopt a new legal regime within a period of 9 months which would otherwise provide for financial compensation for the damage caused by the deletion to the beneficiaries in the proceedings. On 3 December 2018, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia addressed and provided for the text of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Reparation of Damage to Persons Deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations. Amendments to the law will remove the limitation on the amount of the monetary compensation provided for in Article 12 and will re-arrange the interest fixed by the beneficiaries in the proceedings. In front of you is a proposal for a law under which beneficiaries will be entitled to payment of the entire principal for damages found in the proceedings. However, the limited interest that could be fixed for beneficiaries in the proceedings will be limited to the principal amount, as this is justified by the state and sustainability of the budget. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As I have already mentioned to you many times, in preparing the legislative solution in the Government, we have come from three basic positions which are crucial in this matter: that we must respect and enforce the Constitutional Court's decision, that the issue of deleted persons should be fully resolved and that the solution must be sustainable for our budget. I sincerely hope that this difficult issue will be met with the approval of the majority in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The competent working body is the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, which has also considered the proposal for a law. I give the floor to Vice President Igor Peck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u4	Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! At its 7th emergency meeting, on 17 December 2018, the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the draft law amending the Law on the Reparation of Damage to Persons Deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations. This was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. On the basis of the request of the Group of Members and Members with the first signed by Branet Golubović at the 17th extraordinary meeting on 13 December 2018 on the draft law, the National Assembly held a general discussion and concluded that it was appropriate for further consideration. On 13 December, the Group of Members and Members with the first signed Branet Golubović submitted a request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly to be held to address this bill. Members and members of the Committee received a proposal from the Law of 3 December 2018 and an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service of 14 December 2018 as material for the meeting published on the website of the National Assembly. No amendments were tabled in the course of business. The representative of the proposer, Minister of the Interior of Boštjan Poklukar, provided an additional explanation to the article of the bill. He stated that the purpose of the draft law was to enforce the Constitutional Court decision. The proposal for a law is due to enter into force no later than 14 January 2019, as the 9-month period for the abolition of the anti-constitution expires on 13 January and the expiry of this period will take effect. Representative of the Legal and Legislative Service mag. Saša Bricelj Podgornik presented her written opinion. In the debate, the representative of the Levica Group felt that the injustices suffered by persons removed from the Register of Permanent Populations should have been corrected years ago, instead of dragging this situation for almost 27 years. She said that there were several categories for these persons, as all deleted persons did not have the same opportunities to exercise their rights, nor did all beneficiaries of compensation have the opportunity to claim them, and therefore it is not a matter of fair regulation. She stressed that Levica could not support a law aimed at limiting damages, even if it was only a restriction on interest, and added that the economic aspect should not lead to the correction of these injustices. The representatives of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group pointed out that, at the time of independence, everyone could have acquired citizenship, which he had resided in and applied for in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Anyone who wanted to do so could have settled their status. During the six-year period, more than 170 thousand people have easily settled their citizenship. As an example, Slovenia is even highlighted by the Council of Europe. According to Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, many of those who have not settled their status during the six-year period have speculated, and it is also possible that someone has been wronged, which must be corrected. However, these cases should be dealt with individually. Nationality in the former common country was registered at the place of birth, which means that the inhabitants of Slovenia, who were Slovenian nationals but were born outside Slovenia, had to arrange Slovenian citizenship. After discussion, the Committee voted in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the articles of the bill and adopted them by 10 votes in favour and 2 against. Since amendments, the Committee on the Interior, the Public Administration and the Local Government of the National Assembly have not been adopted to the draft law amending the Law on the Compensation of Damage to Persons Deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations have not been adopted in the present text.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Since the Assembly held a general debate at its 17th extraordinary meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. As no amendment was received by the mother labour body to the draft law, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. This concludes the second reading of the bill and brings me to the third reading of the bill, which is the decision on the bill. Dear Members, we vote. There are 54 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the basis of the above, the Commission considers that the measures are compatible with the internal market and that they are compatible with the internal market and are compatible with the internal market. The draft decree was tabled by the Government and I give the floor to Minister Andre Bertoncl for further explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u6	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Today we will decide on a decision amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budget of the State sector for the period 2018-2020, approved by the Finance Committee 17. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amendment relates only to 2019 and is based on fiscal projections based on the implementation of the current year, the latest forecasts of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, the Law on amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the budgets for 2018 and 2019 and other measures and commitments adopted. The change in the ceilings of individual treasury expenditure is also significantly affected by the fact that this year's economic forecasts are more favourable than those expected in the preparation of the current framework. Allow me to give you a few key points briefly. In the State budget, revenue in 2018 will be 2.6 and 495.0 higher than in 2017. The increase in the ceiling of government budget expenditure from 9.6 billion to 10 billion 160 million euros is mainly due to the consideration of newly adopted measures in force in 2019. The increase in the maximum amount of expenditure on the municipal budget is due to an increase in the revenue of the municipalities, on the basis of income, financial compensation and the appropriations received from the European Union budget. On the basis of the implementation of the expenditure of the pension fund for the period January to October 2018, the new estimates of expenditure for 2018 and the new growth of beneficiaries of pension and disability benefits for 2017 will increase the amount of the expenditure of the PRSP for the implementation of the compulsory pension and disability insurance of EUR 5.53 billion, but the planned total revenue for 2018 by EUR 219 million compared to the evaluation of the implementation of 2018. By increasing the maximum expenditure on health insurance after cash flow for 2019 from €2.94 billion to €3.055 billion, the CFSP will be able to allocate EUR 111 million more for the implementation of the compulsory health insurance, in view of the current maximum expenditure for 2019 and EUR 173 million more for 2018. The country's overrun is due to positive economic trends, reduced interest rates and to this year's public expenditure. The change provides a positive nominal balance of the sector, which is estimated to amount to 0.45 per cent of GDP in 2019 and continues to ensure the sustainability of public finances. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will continue fiscal consolidation with the objective of medium-term balance and with a focus on ensuring growth over the period 2018-2022. In view of the fiscal consolidation so far in 2015-2019, this objective is realistically achieved by 2022 and will be presented in the stability programme for the next three years. Fiscal consolidation has been carried out in the past period through temporary rather than permanent systemic measures and the challenges have therefore been passed on to the new medium-term period. Dear Members, our house is on a solid foundation. It is crucial that we have the surplus to continue with fiscal consolidation, reduce public debt, which means that we are less indebted and create more, and we have not forgotten the people we put first. Now is the time for us to roll our sleeves together and continue to work for the benefit of all citizens and citizens. There are no shortcuts here. I wish that in such excellent forms, such as top athletes, that they would be full of enthusiasm, start-up and team and winning spirit, focused on only one and only goal, that is to do good for citizens and citizens, for our common country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The competent decision-making body shall be the Finance Committee. I give my word to the President, Mr Robert Pollnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u8	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 8th urgent meeting on 17 December this year, the Finance Committee considered as the working body the proposal for a decree amending the Decree on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the State for the period 2018 to 2020 submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition to the proposal for a decision, the Committee was presented with the following material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the assessment of the Fiscal Council and the written position of the Government on the assessment of the Fiscal Council. No amendments to the bill or motion for a decree have been tabled. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Umarja, the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development and the Legal and Legislative Services were present at the meeting of the Committee. The introductory supplementary explanation to the motion for a decree was given by the Minister of Finance, who presented the content of the draft decree and mentioned the assumptions on the basis of which the decree was prepared. He said that certain circumstances have changed, which are now visible also in the new amendment to the decree, but only for 2019. In 2019, he announced a new decree following Umar's spring forecast and will be presented together with the national budget's rebalancing. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service warned from a written opinion that, in accordance with Article 6, paragraph 7, of the Fiscal Rules Act, the way in which the objectives set out in the framework are taken into account should be regulated in more detail at all stages of the budget planning of the sector by the State in the rules governing public finances. The acting director Umar presented the economic situation in Slovenia and said that uncertainty in the international environment is gradually strengthening. The discussion highlighted the content of the decree and the view that it brings positive changes in several areas or chambers, such as municipal cashiers or municipal cashiers with higher averages, higher annual allowance, and the alignment of pensions and medical bills with higher expenditure. It was pointed out that there are different views on the expectations of spending resources from the budget, that attention should be given to past experiences and that there is a consistent economic policy. The use of funds requires caution because we want sustainability of public finances without budget deficits. Some members highlighted the opinion of the Fiscal Council and its warnings on the long-term sustainability of public finances and felt that the proposal for a decree was weak and did not express support for it. They also pointed out the issue of productivity in Slovenia and the unstable international situation. It was pointed out that more and more young and educated people are going abroad to work. On the contrary, other members of the Committee felt that the assessment of the Fiscal Council was poor, since the Fiscal Council was supposed to have the wrong view and the wrong methodology. They said that the Government had taken the right decision to raise social expenditure and pointed out the need to invest in research and development in rail infrastructure and that the question of the means to fulfil the obligations of NATO was raised. Furthermore, the role of the independent Fiscal Council and their assessment or recommendations by the Government were exposed. The issue of overexpenditure consumption in 2018 and purchase consumption of the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank was also raised. In the course of the debate, the Minister presented the Government's position on the assessment of the Fiscal Council and answered individual questions and provided further clarifications. He stressed in particular the fact that, as Minister of Finance, he advocated the budgetary surplus taking into account the social component, the reduction of public debt and the necessary structural reforms. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the draft decree and adopted them. No amendments have been tabled to the draft decree on the working body and the Finance Committee of the National Assembly proposes that the Proposal for a Decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State for the period 2018 to 2020 be adopted in the text submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u9	Thank you, Your Honor. This brings us to the views of the parliamentary groups. First of all, you have the word Mr Jani Prednik, the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u10	Dear President, distinguished minister, colleagues, colleagues, good afternoon! Since Slovenia has been forced to adopt a fiscal rule that substantiates the overall budget planning of the debt reduction to an even manageable level, the State's decision on the framework for the preparation of the sector's budgets is a key document and the first step in the adoption of the annual budget, as well as its amendments and restrictions. Under the budgetary framework, the National Assembly shall determine the maximum annual expenditure for each cash public sector and shall also determine the target balance of the sector of the country from which it is simply stated whether the country is in plus or minus. In fact, the fiscal rule imposed on us to maintain our credibility with international lenders requires us to reduce public debt below 60% of GDP and maintain a budget surplus in good years. However, for a precise calculation, an equation is envisaged which forces budget planners to take account of the state of the economy and the forecasts of economic developments. The Fiscal Rule Act also provides that before considering and adopting the budgetary framework, its proposal must be assessed by the Fiscal Council, a special body whose task is to assess and evaluate government budgetary plans and documents. It is important for each new government to fulfill the promises it has made to people and for which it enjoys support. Planning budgetary expenditure is thus one of the top priorities of each government. In doing so, it must take into account the legislation in force and the fiscal rule is only one of the many that it has to look after. In each budget planning, the government must take into account not only fiscal constraints but also a number of other obligations and restrictions established both by the Constitution and by laws. The changes to the budgetary framework proposed for next year represent a modest but important establishment in this country's economic policy. They mean the decision to allocate debt reduction, despite further compliance with fiscal rules and government finance constraints, so that debt reduction will not be the only priority. They refer to the decision to implement the commitments made in the area of salaries and working conditions of public servants, the height and coordination of pensions and social transfers, and the provision of sufficient amounts of necessary investment in several areas. They mean a decision to end universal savings. However, this does not deviate from the principle of sustainability of public finances and the reduction of public debt to manageable levels, but it is not necessarily necessary for debt to be reduced by payments from the budget. The growth we want to promote is the best guarantee for debt reduction. However, limited budgetary resources should be allocated as much as possible to meet the needs of people and communities. What is important is that we manage debt, regularly repay it and maintain it in the long term, without burdening future generations. These arguments are presented in response to the opinion of the Fiscal Council, which, in its assessment, highlighted the need for greater budgetary efforts, namely the EUR 270 million higher surplus, which should be used in line with the fiscal rule solely to reduce debt rather than for people's needs. The task of the Fiscal Council is to draw attention to all fiscal risks and constraints, and it has carried out this task specifically. However, the task of budget makers and decision makers is to take into account other commitments and needs when making final decisions and to draw up a budget that will, at the same time, maintain the capacity of the State to act in the common interest. The Fiscal Council also estimates that the structure of budgetary revenue and expenditure is not yet adequate, as our economic system is still too vulnerable to potential shocks and worsening economic conditions. This opinion should be attached, taken seriously and taken into account not only in the formulation of the budget, but also in the changes we intend to make in the coming years. Stable public finances, which also ensure the functioning of the State in the event of acute situations, are what is in everyone's interest, but this cannot be achieved only by reducing taxes. The revenue side is also the key to the stability of public finances. As the fact that Slovenia is aware of the fact that taxes are unfairly distributed, too high for work and too low for capital gains and assets must be planned, tax changes must also have the opportunity to correct this situation, to make the tax ratios more equitable, and sufficient resources must be provided to the budget and other public treasury companies, so that all systems can operate in a stable manner even when growth is not as high as it has been in the last few years. Above all, such changes in tax policy could ensure that the sustainability of public finances does not have to be ensured by limiting the expenditure on investments that this country urgently needs; for example, for the construction of roads and rail networks or for the total loss of housing policy and housing, mentioning only two of the most pressing issues that Social Democrats want to address. The changes in the budget framework thus do not mean the end, but only the first step in the adoption of the budget and other measures, but they mean clearly outlined limits that we will not be able to exceed when planning implementation. If we remain within these frameworks, we should not have any major problems, neither in approving the budget nor in obtaining the consent of all the competent authorities. If we all constructively put our efforts in this direction, we will certainly be successful in doing so. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for amendments to the country's budget framework for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Ms Mateja Udovč will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u12	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today, the National Assembly will decide for the second time in this mandate to amend the Framework Decision for the preparation of the State sector's budgets for the period 2018 to 2020. Right at the beginning of the mandate, we adopted an extraordinary measure in August to shorten waiting periods. For the measure we earmarked EUR 35 million from the health treasury, this amount was due to a greater inflow of contributions and exceeded the initial plan of this year's revenue of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. Today, too, we are considering an amendment to the decree, which foresees an increase in the maximum level of expenditure on health bills. In doing so, we will devote EUR 111 million to the implementation of compulsory health insurance and will use it to raise the prices of health services and programmes. These costs are due to salary increases achieved by the unions and to measures to reduce waiting periods. The proposal for amendments to the decree for the preparation of public treasury budgets increases the ceilings of the allowed expenditure in 2019 by all four public cash: the State budget, the pension and health allowance, and the budgets of the municipalities. All four of them will be able to have €20.61 billion in expenditure, which is 1.1 billion more than in the current decree. Instead of the projected 0.2% surplus, the cashiers generated a surplus of 0.4% of GDP. On the basis of these data, the Government will draw up by the end of January a proposal for a rebalancing of the national budget for 2019. The Minister of Finance, when discussing the draft decree on the home working body, said that the government's first priority for the state budget would still be the fiscally sustainable balance of the budget. The balance will maintain an appropriate balance between the social and economic sectors or allow economic growth to continue. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are aware that this is a change in the fiscal policy of the country, which will still maintain the sustainability of public finances without a budget deficit, but will no longer follow the objective of achieving the medium-term sustainability of public finances and maintaining structural balance. This means that there will be a structural deficit in 2019, so we will not be able to follow the fiscal rules laid down by our legislation and European Union legislation. Nor will it be possible to implement the major structural reforms called for by the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund, this fear has also been voiced by the Fiscal Council. In the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, we will support the proposal for a decree, irrespective of the change in fiscal policy of the Government, since only raising the ceiling on the expenditure of the state budget for 2019 allows the implementation of further measures with effects in 2019, with the aim of raising public sector wages, agreeing with municipalities on the average for 2019 and maintaining the level or coordination of social transfers. Amendments to the Decision are necessary because, otherwise, it would be difficult to implement the national budget already adopted for 2019. This does not include the recently adopted amendment to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019 and the above-mentioned agreements. We have decided that in 2019 we will make it possible to raise salaries for public servants on the basis of an agreement between the Government and trade unions on salaries and other public sector labour costs, to coordinate transfers of individuals and households, as well as to harmonise income limits that are a condition for obtaining and determining the level of rights from public funds, to release the last austerity measures from the ZUJF and to increase the care of vulnerable social groups, to improve the situation of young people and to enable education with the granting of state scholarships, to improve the material situation of families, to improve the situation of older people through the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions and to increase the regression for them. If we follow the proposal of the Fiscal Council, we should lead a more restrictive fiscal policy. Therefore, the measures already mentioned should be repealed and it may even introduce new austerity measures. The Group of the Party of the Modern Centre does not agree with this and considers that it is time that the benefits of higher economic growth and prosperity also come from vulnerable social groups. Public servants who care for our health, education and so on. Young and old. At 100 days of government action, the President of the Government said that 100 days is too short for tectonic movements and structural changes, but it is enough to shape a course. With this statement, we are able to agree, and in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we point out that our current economic achievements and recovery over the average of the European area are largely due to the measures and reforms already taken in the previous mandates. We therefore expect new government reforms that will have consequences on the budget revenue and expenditure side. The new reforms will enable the medium-term objective of the structurally balanced budget to be achieved by 2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u13	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your position. Mr Luka Moon on behalf of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u14	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. Today we decide what the volume of government spending will be next year. In Levi, we support that consumption will increase in some of the key segments defined by the Coalition Treaty, such as the harmonisation of pensions, the establishment of an annual allowance to end savings on social transfers, so that there will be more funding for municipalities. However, the Ministry of Finance, in amending the decree, raises the country's target balance for 2019 from 0.2 per cent of GDP to 0.4 per cent of GDP and the target balance of the budget sector from minus 0.6 per cent of GDP to 0.3 per cent of GDP, which means that it has decided on a more conservative budgetary policy. At the same time, especially at the invitation of the Fiscal Council that budgetary policy should be even more conservative – the Fiscal Council proposes that the state tighten the additional €270 million – a few words should be said about the austerity policy. First of all, why it's harmful. Mark Blyth in the book Saving Us: The History of Dangerous Ideas invites us to the next thought experiment. If the household saves EUR 100, it will not be known to anyone else except the household, because the household is a small unit in order to have a EUR 100 drop-out on anyone. However, if all households decide to save 100 euros, this will mean that less consumption will occur and therefore lower incomes for businesses, lower wages and lower taxes. The same applies to the State. If the state decides to collect 270 million taxes and then does not pay it back through budget spending in the form of income for businesses and households, this means that companies and households are at a disadvantage of 270 million euros. I mean, if we're saving, we're not creating greater wealth, we're creating greater poverty. Virtually all developed countries are aware of this. If you write on Google: Budget surpluses Germany or something like that and look at what budget surpluses Germany has had in the last 40 years, you will find that between 1970 and 2005, if I am not mistaken, budget surplus only once. Once – everything else had deficits. Nevertheless, she did not have problems with public debt because it is crucial that the country has more economic growth on average than the budget deficit. The other such cases are the United States. Between 1968 and 2018, the U.S. had a budget surplus of exactly five times. Everything else was budget deficits and the average deficit amount was minus 2.9%. We're going to have a budget surplus this year, the Fiscal Council says it's not enough, we call it the other way around in Levica. We could have a positive zero. Given that economic growth in Slovenia is stable, 4.4%, and given where we are in the cycle, Umar says that we are somewhere at the top of the cycle and that it will begin to cool down, we need to consider how the country should start to encourage it. Next year, growth is projected to fall from 4.4% to 3.7%, and the reason for this is what I named Achilles' heel six months ago. In fact, at a time when American President Trump, the president of the country that sucks global consumption, began to predict various customs exacerbations, trade war. This will, of course, affect everyone who exports to the United States. You know that right now. If you read the reports of the Chinese statistical offices, you will see that China has reached a historic low economic growth this year, a 5.5% forecast, and this will affect Germany, especially the German automotive industry, which we depend on. In fact, one of our key export products is made up of semi-finished products for the German automotive industry. That's the reason for this number. Thus, the reason why economic growth is beginning to slow down is that our exports are beginning to slow down. How do you respond to that? By taking advantage of the favourable economic climate for the development break-up of the domestic economy. There will be a significant need to invest more in science and research, in infrastructure, and at national level, we will have to start thinking and worry about exporting something other than car industry semi-products to the world markets. I think that this is a key development task for the next few years or years of this government – if it completes its mandate. The second aspect to be taken into account is the social injustices that have accumulated over the decade of saving in Slovenia. Some of them are correcting this budget and some are insufficient. You might want to mention your pension here. With regard to pensions, little attention is drawn to the real problem with our pension allowance. This is significantly lower than neighbouring or comparable countries. In Slovenia, we devote less than 10% of GDP to pensions, and this share will continue to decline in the future. In Austria, they allocate 14% of GDP and in Italy, more than 15%. The EU average is 12.6% of us are below 10%. This means that with us, the pension box is 25% lower than in the EU or almost half lower than in the neighbouring countries. This is also a challenge for this government. In fact, how it will ensure a comparable share in the pension fund, as this can be a way for a real pension raise, to withdraw from poverty more than 78 000 pensioners who still live there. But, as I say, these discussions go beyond the budget. It is overcome by both pensions and development debates, as well as by the debate on how to regulate Slovenian health care. Of course, we need to discuss this in the budget, but we must be aware that one budget alone cannot fix all of this and can contribute to it. We are therefore in favour of the position in Levica that the ideal balance of this budget should be on a positive note somewhere and we are opposed to any savings because it is developmentally harmful, so we will vote with abstention in the decision we are making today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Mr Jožef Horvat, you will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of Finance, dear colleagues and colleagues! Amendments to the Framework Decision for the preparation of the State sector's budgets for the period 2018 to 2020 increase the potential for increased expenditure in the various financial state systems. The country's maximum expenditure for 2019 increased to 20 billion and 610 million, bringing about an increase in expenditure of almost a billion and 100 million. The maximum amount of expenditure for the state budget for 2019 increases to 10 billion and 160 million, bringing about an increase of almost half a billion expenditure. At the last meeting, we discussed several proposals of New Slovenia in the field of taxes, which could leave all citizens with more than they deserve in their work. Together, we could agree on how much more the budget could do and, in view of this, put in joint amendments to the legislative proposals. And instead, unfortunately, we've been listening a lot to ourselves about money just disappearing. Dearly beloved, money would not have disappeared, but it would have remained with those who worked hard for it, earned it, and were most entitled to it. We have also heard about how the reduction of taxpayers' tax burdens is totally unacceptable because it is not possible to replace resources in the budget. Today, however, we are considering a decree that increases the expenditure of the state sector by a billion and 100 million. And where did you get these funds all of a sudden, if not from taxpayers, who on the other hand would not be allowed at least to reduce tax burdens and raise net wages on the one hand, and on the other hand would be left with more money for investment investments because there is no development without investment. The fiscal world, on the other hand, clearly points to a marked increase in public spending. It is critical to this end, as this does not provide an adequate basis for the medium-term sustainability of public finances. Subject to the fiscal rule, their position in 2019 should reduce the projected expenditure by EUR 270 million. The country's overrun should thus move around 1 per cent of GDP. The President of the Fiscal Council, Mr Davorin Kkruk, pointed out that the current state spending should be aware that the economy is moving cyclically. We are currently at the top of the cycle, and sooner or later there will be a deterioration, and the cooling of some segments of the economy is already a fact. If we are not careful about public spending today, we may be forced to reduce state spending during the crisis. How embarrassing that is, so six years ago we met with the Public Finance Balance Act. If, in line with the Council's proposal, spending was reduced by only €270 million, this would not mean saving, as spending would still increase by up to €830 million. The government has responded to the Fiscal Council's opinion more or less with a flat-rate indication that it wants to promote long-term economic growth and redistribute income accordingly by increasing budgetary expenditure. Since the Government has not responded to the Fiscal Council's position on the ground, in New Slovenia we will not support the motion for a decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Mr Vojko Starović on behalf of the Party's Group Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! The proposal for a regulation amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2018 to 2020 makes it possible to realize, not fully, but partially the realization of all those rights that have been discussed in recent weeks in this National Assembly. While the Fiscal Council considers that, subject to the domestic fiscal rule, the maximum expenditure of the State sector in 2019 should be reduced by around 270 million. That would require cuts in what we talked about in the past few weeks. We can't just have naked numbers in front of our eyes. We can't have people in front of us. The naked numbers themselves have little contact with the real world. They overlook pensioners who have been waiting too long for a well-deserved improvement in their material position and who still bear the burden of saving to a certain extent. They do not cover municipalities which have also been struggling for years with the gap between the costs incurred on the basis of their legal obligations and the actual costs. They do not even take into account public servants, many of whom are still working for a truly miserable payment. All of these cases would continue to be deprived in the event of a referral of 270 million. The State must take appropriate decisions and try to act as balanced as possible. On the one hand, to respect certain criteria set by our wider community or the European Commission and, on the other hand, to strive to ensure that citizens are given adequate prosperity and rights. 0.4 per cent is, in our opinion, one measure that maintains a satisfactory balance between one and the other. Here, among us in the National Assembly, there are different views on how the state should define its surplus or deficit. While one advocates a deficit that accelerates consumption – public spending promotes the economy – others warn against it and, as a matter of fact, assess the only surplus. 0.4 seems to be a medium and we agree with the Minister that this is a percentage that can provide us with adequate efficiency in reducing public debt on the one hand and addressing different social categories on the other. After years of crisis and the lives of many individuals, it seems only right for us to end the austerity measures and take the first step in the area of social transfers. It also seems to us that, as announced by the Minister, in 2020, there will be a trend towards development, which has also paid its tax in the crisis. In Alenka Bratušek we repeat that Slovenia needs a stable, innovative and sustainable economy. To that end, of course, it is not possible without investment in development. Over the past years, we have managed to stabilise the financial system and create the conditions for a renewed start-up of the economy. The path to this was thorny and difficult, and if anyone knows it, we know it at the Alenka Bratušek Party. Now, however, we must be very careful not to waste all our efforts and efforts. We are convinced that maintaining surpluses and striving to reduce public debt is the right course and the right path to achieve this objective. As it is said, the adoption of the proposal, which we are discussing today, is essential for the realization of certain rights, so that we will unanimously support it in the Party's Group of Members, Alenka Bratušek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The next position will be presented by Mr Robert Polnar on behalf of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u20	Madam Vice-President, Madam Members, Madam Members! In modern countries, which rely on the power of the free market as a priority in the planned distribution of goods and services, the government plays an important role in some key areas. In connection with our debate today, at least three should be mentioned: regulation of the fiscal system, maintenance and development of conditions for competitiveness and care for those who cannot take care of themselves. The decision on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the state sector for the period 2018 to 2020, with the amendments proposed for 2019, can also be interpreted as a response to the question of how the government fulfils its fiscal and economic responsibilities. The higher the gross domestic product or the moderate rate of growth of the economy, the higher the employment of the active population or the lower the unemployment rate, moderate inflation, stable and growing net exports – these are the general objectives of the state economic policy, which can often be incompatible, even exclusionary, within the network of macroeconomic indicators, with possible discrediting and negligent estimates. The highest level of expenditure increases and is compensated by increased revenues, in particular tax revenues, which proves that taxes are what we pay for a civilized society. The financing of pensions is crucial for the Desus Group. Expenditure will be higher by €219 million in 2019 than estimated for this year. The amount of pension funds provides for the regular coordination of pensions of 2.8 per cent and exceptional coordination of 1.5 per cent, because economic growth will exceed 4 per cent of gross domestic product in 2018. This is also confirmed by the Bank of Slovenia's latest forecast. It also takes account of the already legal solution in the Budget Implementation Act, which has established an annual five-grade pension allowance in the context of expenditure on pensions. This allows pensioners to receive the maximum amount with the lowest pensions. Reducing public debt and creating budgetary surpluses are the main intermediate objectives. We agree with them, although there is always the possibility of a doctrinal debate on how to act in a seizing conjuncture that cannot be determined in time by the performance of the expected recession cycle. The government increased the surplus level of the country from the originally estimated 0.2% of gross domestic product to 0.4%. In slowing down economic growth, we estimate that the target is ambitious. According to the Fiscal Council's assessment, a partially expansionary fiscal policy is thus inadequate. It provides for a low nominal surplus of the state sector and, above all, indicates a deterioration of the structural balance in 2019. Conceptual and methodological differences between the Government and the Fiscal Council can also be evaluated. They are worth or are worth €270 million, which means 1.3 per cent of the highest expenditure of the state sector, which is €20 000 610 million. Precautionary skepticism is in place. Especially in the event of events or taking into account developments in Slovenian economic policy in the last 15 years. We cannot afford to learn from our own bad experiences. However, it does not show that there are, historically speaking, even unresolved or unresolved macro-economic issues. At least four would be worth mentioning: how should economic policy makers try to increase the natural rate of economic growth; should economic policy makers try to stabilise the economy; how big is the budgetary deficit; and what is the rate of unemployment still sustainable? A much larger, more developed and stronger economy has not been able to resolve these issues, and it is quite likely that we will not be able to do so as well. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Reality can only be changed through deliberate policy and constant questioning and analysis of its own mistakes. The decree on the framework for the preparation of the state budget for the period 2018 to 2020 is the basis for the implementation of the state budget, for the implementation of municipal budgets and for the fulfilment of all the legal obligations of the pension and health allowance, which is why we will support it in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič The nobles will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your kind invitation. In our Group of Members of this document, we will not support this decision. Indeed, the decree further increases the level of expenditure in the state sector. After all, we know that it is necessary to correct what Cerara's government has done when it hired 11,000 new civil servants, not in those places where it should, say, in hospitals, in the police, in the military, but where it was appropriate. Therefore, it is now necessary to correct those mistakes, and this correction will cost us a lot. Umar said that GDP will fall from 4.4 to 3.7, employment growth will fall from 2.8 to 1.5, exports will decrease from 8.2 to 6.6, and so on. In short, it's all going down. The fact is that in Germany there are already severe preparations for the crisis coming in 2020, and the Germans are cutting all spending, and ultimately their economic growth is stifling. The fact is that economic growth will slow down in 2019, and this should be accepted and taken into account. But no, there are new and new burdens on the state budget in our country and I wonder what will happen after this has to be paid. As it appears, we will hire new loans, even more indebted the country and then wait for this mandate to pass, and then deal with the next government that will come. Those who accept this now will wash their hands and — what will be the result? Nothing! No one will be to blame anyway, because in Slovenia nobody is ever to blame, except those who steal one sandwich because they are too hungry. Then they get six months of free housing in prison, and at least then they're provided because otherwise the country doesn't care about people. I'm afraid of what the pensioners will say, not today, because they don't understand it today. Desus, unfortunately, doesn't understand, but he will understand when the pensioners go to another party and vote for another option, not for Desus anymore. But then it'll be too late and they'll say, gentlemen, you've had your chance, and you've done nothing, and you've supported all these burdens, which is why we'll get even less in our pocket. Of course, because employment growth will fall, it means that social burdens will also rise, as these people will go to social services and receive social assistance. Already in this group receiving social assistance, there are a lot of lazy people, at least 70% of them who don't want to work because they want to sit at home, get support, and then get a little more black and get more than someone gets paid for 8 hours of work every day. This is also one of the total anomalies introduced or upgraded by the Cerar government in this Slovenian political and economic space. I don't know, we don't seem to know, we don't even read old Slovenian literature to know that one proverb says, Slovenian, centuries old, or even more: Whoever doesn't works doesn't. But it is with us that he who does not work should be better than those who work. This is now a new Slovenian proverb. Unfortunately, that's the way he is. The fiscal world draws attention to everything, but the government exclaims it, so one wonders if the fiscal world still makes sense because the government doesn't respect it. The government thinks you're honking as much as you like, we'll do it our way. Productivity in Slovenia is below the average compared to the European Union. And what has the government done in this area? Nothing! We hear nothing about these measures to increase productivity. We don't know what's going on because nothing's happening. Compared to the European Union average, it also allocates more GDP resources to public sector employees than in the European Union. We can ask ourselves again why that is. Here again is thinking about those 11,000 employees, as well as these projected new ones, I do not know whether 6 or 10 state secretaries, one of whom should be concerned that those young people fleeing from Slovenia because of the poor situation created by the Government, this and the previous – in the first place the former – continue the work – that these boys and girls will be invited back to Slovenia. Well, who's coming back here, who? Knowledge is not appreciated, intelligence is not appreciated, but in Slovenia it is kind of, I would say, an English grass system. If one plant looks out of the average, it has to be cut. We need to cut our heads, which think differently, who think smartly and who want to work, because these people spoil the average; they corrupt the average, which is on the average relative to our environment. We could follow Austria, Hungary, Italy. After all, Serbia is ahead of us, Bosnia is coming, Croatia is here somewhere like us, Romania and Bulgaria have already rushed us, not to mention where the state multinational groups are. We once said, Czech Yes, far away, far ahead! And what else do they have? A stable government, they have people who care for their own people, not for the beauty of the word and lying in the lower part of the back of the European Union and their adlatus who are babbling here. Of course, if they let them go somewhere, our parents try hard. Sometimes they are allowed, sometimes not, depending on the alcoholised state of leaders in the European Union. In short, the government should deal with structural measures and how it will fill the state budget more than the allocation of resources from the State budget. We don't have that. Interestingly, the government has now dedicated €6 million to Revoz to develop a new Renault car. As we know, Revous is a French company. The French don't leave any money here, they don't invest in infrastructure, they don't invest in any sports societies or any cultural institutions in Dolenjska. The money's gone, and they're taking him out. Our government will give them another 6 million! And if we look at the structure of those who work in Revoz, one wonders why we have to support Croatian workers, because after all a huge number of workers who work there come from Croatia and return to Croatia. We won't have much money out there. I think that if the remaining Slovenian workers were to be allocated EUR 6 million per year, they would have a cleaner landscape, no environmental burden, and people would live well and they would not have to work well. For the fact that you don't have to work is one postulate of Slovenian politics that he wants to carry out. Unfortunately, this is usually so that those who do not want to work hang themselves on social support. The government is only thinking that these people will be the voters who will give them a voice in the next election and draw people in from everywhere, mainly from Kosovo, the ones that will be the least educated with families. Here comes someone who says he will work in Slovenia and here we get social, brings the whole family, works in Germany, Belgium, Austria and what happens? If you go to the administrative units, you will see that there are 30, 50 people on certain house numbers, in some cases more than 100 people. These people receive social support because they have brought with them their family, mother, old mother, aunt, uncle, cousin, their children, their distant treasure, and this certainly burdens the country. This is not what the state wants to do to clean it up. He prefers to burden it all up and thinks, "Write me somewhere, we'll take credit, they'll pay him anyway." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The following will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u24	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us an assessment of the compliance of the Decision amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period from 2018 to 2020. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we find that this government and coalition have opted for forces an unusual and unusual path that was not the practice of the previous governments. The fact is that we have already considered in the National Assembly the law on the implementation of the 2019 budget, that we now have a decree on the framework for the preparation of budgets from 2018 to 2020, but we do not yet have a budget balance for 2019, which will, of course, be necessary, because this is clear from the law on the implementation of the budget as well as the decree on the preparation of the 2018 budget by 2020. It is also unusual that we have before us a document that speaks for the period from 2018 to 2020, and the government only announces changes for 2019 in this document. Dear, respectable government, respectable coalition, what's for 2020? In the Slovenian Democratic Party we share our opinion with the Fiscal Council, the Fiscal Council has given more than a negative opinion on the budget decree. According to the proposal, the Fiscal Council notes that the proposed expansion fiscal policy is pro-cyclical in 2019 and as such would not be in accordance with legislation. The projected nominal surplus, which will be reduced by 2018, and the reduction in the share of the country's debt in gross domestic product in the bulk result from the current high economic growth. As a result, the creation of a structural deficit is expected to re-create, which would distance Slovenia from ensuring the medium-term sustainability of fiscal policy. The Fiscal Council also notes that the common framework thus does not indicate the direction of fiscal policy for the next few years, as does legislation. This leaves Slovenia without a credible and consistent medium-term budgetary framework. More. The government has allowed itself, or the Committee on Finance, that the Fiscal Council has not been invited at all to the labour force that addressed this decree, and in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that this is a great blemish which, in the future, the Committee on Finance and, of course, the coalition that is responsible for leading this committee cannot afford. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we note that, according to the data provided by this government, the budget for 2019 will be primarily socially oriented, but the budget for Slovenia will certainly not focus on development, which will not be positive in the medium and long term for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, at least from the data provided by the current government and the current coalition, we can see that the policy of additional burdening citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and the economy with new taxes and higher excise duties will continue and, last but not least, the debt policy of that country will continue. We were able to read from the media yesterday that the country intends to be in charge of an additional €2.1 billion in 2019. We will not support such a budget framework in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, I wish all of them happy and, above all, peaceful Christmas holidays and good luck in 2019. Thank you. [[Advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. I wish you the same. As a last resort, she will present Mrs Andreja Zabret's position on behalf of the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u26	Thank you, Vice President. Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The Framework Decision under consideration sets the ceiling for expenditure on public cash financing and its amendment will allow for the preparation of the budget rebalancing foreseen in the coming year. We need to change it, as we expect higher revenues in order to improve economic growth, and in addition, this year certain laws have been adopted that change the average, annual supplement and extraordinary harmonisation of pensions for pensioners, and an agreement has been reached on public sector wage policies, wage increases and so on. While Slovenia has seen high, almost 5% of economic growth for two years and growth is expected between 3% and 4% next year. On the basis of macroeconomic indicators and the implementation assessment for 2018, it is estimated that tax revenues will increase by EUR 375 million in the coming year. To a greater extent, the additional revenue is reflected in the higher revenue collection, estimated to be higher than the 2018 implementation estimate by around EUR 132 million. The Fiscal Council, in its opinion to the Government, recommends for 270 million less planned expenditure from the state sector in the coming year. However, it is important to point out that, within the framework of the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact, we withdrew from the excessive deficit procedure three years ago and are focusing on achieving compliance with the debt rule as a priority. This coherence will also continue to be ensured through established public financial plans. With the planned dynamics, the so-called Maastricht criterion below 60 per cent of the debt relative to GDP will be met at the end of the medium term within this government. The data show that Ireland is the only better place for reducing public debt than we are in the European Union. Thus, at the time of economic growth, we will also take care of socially disadvantaged categories, reduce public debt and have budgetary surpluses. However, in the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we are aware that in the near future we will have to carry out a thorough developmental thought, which will also contain a response to the challenges of demographic movements. In view of the debate that took place on the labour market, where one party expressed its desire for even greater social expenditure, and the other party to urgently save in the time of the fat cows, we believe that the proposal for a decision is balanced and that, despite a strong social note towards the sustainability of public finances, no one, after all, wants budget deficits. That is why we will unanimously support the decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members, and we are moving on to the general debate of Members and Members on the proposal for a decree. Mr Jože Lenart will be the first to receive the text and Mr Joseph Horvat will be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Madam President. What a day ago we received a clear statement that we are not discussing in the LMŠ that we are not involved in the debate. I'm not happy today when I decided to discuss it, but I don't have any listeners on this other side. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah. [[…]] [[Laugh]] The framework sets the ceiling for expenditure on public cash financing and allows the preparation of the 2019 budget rebalancing. We need to amend the decree because, in order to improve economic growth, we expect higher revenues to be allocated primarily to the state budget, based on trade unions and other changes made, as well as from the previous period; for the average municipal budget, slightly lower expenditure on pensions and health care, which is still important. By raising the minimum wage, we have not only intervened in the public sector, but in a much broader way, in the private sector, which will ensure, through income increases in addition to favourable economic growth, that we can meet the increase in expenditure. The increase in minimum wage will also increase consumption, which will further impact, through other taxes such as VAT, on additional revenues and additional growth in gross social income and added value as basic indicators of the country's performance. 13. The top of the economy has set its bold targets in the medium term, namely EUR 2 000 300 of average wages, an increase of EUR 60 000 per capita, both representing a 35% increase to the current situation. The 13th government, however, raised the minimum wage to €700 to €1. 1. 2020, this is slightly less than 10%. Of course, this intervention should practically not be possible; here the market economy should only react to such a measure. A group of economists resisted raising the minimum wage to destroy them, so to speak. I wonder how the average wage will be raised by 35 per cent, but if the problem is to raise the minimum wage by 10 per cent. Where will entrepreneurs get their staff if they pay at the poverty threshold? How do we raise the added value to 60,000 per employee with minimum wage on the poverty line? This does not guarantee productivity, such wages do not belong to high-tech activities, and in labour intensive industries we reach an added value to the employee below 30,000. We cannot become a developmentally excellent company with minimum wages at the threshold of poverty, this simply cannot be done. In recent weeks, we have considered proposals for tax reduction laws: VAT, the Law on corporate income tax, the Law on Income, which should give up a strong over a billion tax revenues. In recent weeks, we have also considered proposals for legislation on additional social transfers, for additional assistance in various areas, which together represent several hundred million. All the time, this government has been alerting us to a fiscal rule that is reportedly being breached because we do not reach 1 per cent of GDP, Dr. Kkruk even talks about the budget deficit. At some point when the spirit escaped from the bottle to cut social transfers to achieve a sufficiently high budget surplus, I had Facebook posted by NSI colleagues from Koroška to tell me what we were going to do. Let me read Egon Zakroška, who learns how to run the country. But do we know where Egon Zakrošek lives and works? In the state of hard capital! In a country where GDP is dominated by the military industry, where fiscal policy is run by banking spheres that control the whole world; in a country where people die if they get sick because they are excited about social transfers. Our cousin Egon Zakrošek is an expert in the systems of hard capitalism in a social state such as ours, but unfortunately he is frozen; and he himself has admitted this. What would the draft budget 2019 look like today if we adopted proposals for laws to reduce revenue and increase expenditure? Let's face it, we could close the store and go to the polls! A few days ago, I received a polite questionnaire from a journalist, among whom was also the question of what supernatural power I wanted to have, and my answer was: to see a man if he really believes what he is saying. A colleague on this side recently told us that Members of the LMŠ do not advertise or discuss their proposals. Members of the LMŠ prepare expert and clear positions on unacceptable proposals of the law and then follow and follow the debate and call when necessary. In the meantime, however, we are following other tasks that we are solving. So with one ear, we are in the debate, but with the head we are in the network system with our ministries, with our co-workers looking for solutions for health, rationalisation and efficiency of the entire state administration, rationalisation of information systems and the efficiency of infrastructure building and could still be listed. For me, today's document is good, and now I'm going to deal with the fact that Slovenian visits a doctor 4.5 times a year and Switzerland only 0.6 times. So, how do you relieve a Slovenian doctor and nurse from having between 50 and 70 patients a day in the infirmary? Most LMŠ Members come from an economy where we are used to acting quickly if you want to survive on a competitive market. If that is not the case, today, as 100 days of this government expire, the situation would be completely different. Thus, as calmly as we can go to the celebrations of these days with our loved ones, we can continue our way through the festivals. I am very proud of this government, of colleagues and colleagues in LMŠ, of coalition colleagues, of colleagues in ministries, of local communities and of our joint work. I feel the energy that surrounds us and connects us more and more. Colleagues and colleagues in the opposition, I invite you to constructively join us so that we can achieve the necessary goals and make a better life. Calm holidays and a lot of positive energy and a lot of health, colleagues and colleagues!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat. And get ready for Mrs. Ludmila Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u30	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear colleague Jože Lenart, I am your faithful listener, and my colleague Ludmila is here, and my colleague Pavlin, I know you're not happy with us, but that's how it is. And one more thing, dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, we are ready to cooperate with you, call us, come with solutions, call us. I have proof, I have proof; the parliamentary group can support not only the vote, but also the debate on what is necessary, which is interventional, and I know this very morning that same minister, whose solution we have supported, can also do a little differently with space – with space, with people – as has been done so far. In 15 minutes we solved three very difficult questions from eastern Slovenia. So that, only if it's willful, but not, please, split into each other. But democracy is such; there are some in the coalition, one in the opposition, and we don't have that much information, but we have solutions. Look, our solutions are written in a 300-page book. Your president also got them because he didn't have them, and our president said to him, "Look, Marjan, take what you don't like and throw it out." And so on. There is some discomfort in dealing with this decision that we all feel somehow. This is because it was not on the Finance Committee of the representatives of the Fiscal Council. I'm in the opposition. I don't know why he wasn't there. I appreciate the efforts made by the chairman of the Committee, Mr Polnar, who wanted to invite members of the Fiscal Council during the meeting. Why they did not come, this question is open, and we will also demand these answers. But it is also true, look, imagine that you are a member of the Fiscal Council, which this national assembly with a large majority – I think it is two-thirds – supports and then make some other product and the third product a fifth product, but then these products are so constantly thrown into the basket. How would you feel? Although now it's another question. How to increase net wages? That's what we all know, that's what we're all talking about, our gross wages are too heavy, burdensome, and net wages are going to be higher. The key question is how to increase gross wages. From 2014 to spring 2018, I have these analyses, we have only increased gross wages by 4.78%. Almost four years, three years, not yet five %, Austria 22 %, Germany 25 % in the same time period. We all agree now, productivity is a problem for us. Productivity must certainly be the responsibility of the economy – and also of the country. The result is very logical that we have low wages, but if we are about 20% worse after productivity than the European average. Our biggest export partner, who is said to be causing us Achilles' fifth, is 20% after productivity above the European average. So what do we think we should do? Investing in development. I went to look at 2016; if I cut money across all budget lines in 2016, which could represent research and development, I got a total of 146 million. It's so much upriver. If I compare with Austria, our northern neighbour, and calculate their GDP and their population, and convert this into our situation, we should invest about 600 million dollars on an annual basis in research and development from the budget. The calculation for Slovenia compared to Sweden is 830 million. I believe the minister can't do that in one year. It would be good to unify here whether we have a common objective of gradually investing in R & D and reaching a 1% GDP target. That's what our programs say. But it is true, Comrade Lenart, that the opposition cannot impose reform measures. This is a set of laws that must be harmonised in time, in financial terms and so on, so it is normal for us to make individual laws under Article 88 of the Constitution. We can also decide, for example, for the next six months we will not invest one, and then there will be the obvious, where the opposition is, but nothing is done, they do not deserve their wages. Which is true. Which is true. In a way, we have been pleased in New Slovenia since the first hour, since we met with Minister Bertonclje, when we looked at his competences, experience, and I can assess him personally – this is my personal assessment – that, as far as finance is concerned, he is a conservative. Maybe he won't go along with it on his own. We like that. We like this, and we are deeply concerned – personally – that in recent times, after the brutal effects of Zuif, saving has become a profanity. Savings became profanity. Once again and for a hundred years, our heart broke when we accepted Zuif, but it was necessary to accept him because the country was before the bankruptcy. You can look at those numbers then, but this will not do you any good for the future, except for the future we can benefit from the coming – when, no one knows – we need to prepare for the economic crisis now. We all find, Umar and so on, that we are somewhere at the top of the economic cycle or that in some segments we are already recording the cooling of the economy, of the European, of the world. True, then there are these various wars, trade wars, which are truly incomprehensible matters, but all of this will strike us. We also have to calculate what will happen after the brexit, although we do not have much of a direct trade – Germany has, and Germany has the most. That's what I'm going to know. Here in this regard – now someone wonders why this minister is so praised – I am in some way calm, we are calm that Dr. Bertonzel has only had nearly a quarter-year experience in the economy, and he has certainly been a successful manager. I didn't go to see business results, but if I hadn't been successful, I wouldn't have been in charge of various important corporations at home and in the world for so long. This gives us some hope because we claim that we need a new economic policy in Slovenia. We need to. I agree that this will not go overnight and, above all, we will insist on this, which I am already predicting, we will certainly be putting some amendments on the 2019 budget balance if we are not satisfied with the research and development funds. The state cannot finance market research, this is probably clear to everyone, but the state must finance those research that actually find its own application value in the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, we are convinced that the country must do its utmost to create excellent market products and services from inspiring ideas. We have a lot of people who have very good ideas, inspiring ideas, sometimes they seem out of place, and then, if you think about it a little bit, you can see that this can produce one great product that's sold all over the world. I also understand that this government has been in office for 100 days. We are objective, we did not expect to see a new economic policy from the rebalancing of the 2019 budget, and we expect this to happen for 2020. Before that, of course, appropriate legal changes that will have an effect from 1. 1. 2020. I hope we can modernise just in time. Of course, it is not just economic policy, we are talking about the necessity of modernising the health system, the necessity of modernising the school system and so on. However, I would also like to hear from the Minister once, perhaps this is not the case now, or when we are talking about finance, what he thinks about the increased involvement of private resources. The country will simply not be able to meet all these needs, which are bigger every day. Mr. Secretary understands what I'm talking about. We should also discuss this once, whether it is forbidden to invest private funds, for example, for the better health of citizens, or whether it is forbidden to invest private funds to improve the school system and so on and so forth. We need to talk about this once and if possible to reach some consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Ludmila Novak, and Dr Darij Krajčič is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Usually I did not go into trouble with my fellow Mesec because it seems to me that I would debate and protest if the opposition spoke. But since Levica is now a super-coalist party or the most important coalition party, as we say, I will comment on what my colleague Luka Mesec was talking about. Speaking of spending, I realized that I have been saving or misusing my finances my whole life. He talked about how to spend more and more. Of course, someone has the benefit of going to the store and spending all the time, and I'm just, in fact, getting poorer, because then I don't have enough for what's very important, I can't buy bigger things, I can't, I don't have money, when the crisis comes, and I should get through it, because I've put up with everything before. This is spending and spending – of course, merchants have benefited from it, including the country with the Dedev, and I have become increasingly poor. This demagogy, as we progress with our spending, keeps appearing again and again. We saw what happened in Greece when they were spending and spending and spending, renting loans, renting loans until they fell into a hole. And here are the ugly Germany and the banks that demanded the money they borrowed from them because the poor were taking credit so lightly. Of course, I feel sorry for the population, which is increasingly poorer, but such a policy cannot lead to development and progress. Then Luka Mesec talked about how to invest in R & D. But here I completely agree. We don't give enough money for R & D, but he only says that we have to invest in R & D in state institutions, in education where basic research is done, but he always opposes when we say we have to let businesses have more money to invest in economic development. But here we are ugly neoliberals, protecting the rich and taking the poor. You know, if companies invest in development, research, of course, we also have to invest in basic research, and we invest very little in this, but if companies invest in development and research and pay well their educated staff that they need in order to develop, then there are many of them in lower jobs and there is no need for minimum wages. I am in favour of having as few people as possible have a minimum wage to pay them as much as possible, but of course the role of the swallowing state will take place here. How many times have we talked in this House about the need to introduce a development cap, not to pay taxes and contributions to the best educated who immediately fall into the highest pay grade? What's happening to us now? We cry because our most educated personnel are leaving abroad. Just go to northeastern Slovenia, where I go many times, because I'm from there when people go across the border day after day to work, and then they move there because they have higher tax breaks because their knowledge is appreciated because they have the same gross salary as us, they stay in their pocket, of course, and then they can spend more. Last time I was on Saturday, how many of these everyday cases were told to me because they hurt because they move across the border and then slowly – of course they are ours, but then the children or grandchildren slowly do not speak Slovenian anymore. So that the Slovenian national community in Styria or the local minority, because we also have a recognised minority there, increases greatly from day to day. Let's not talk about the healthcare staff going there, and Maribor will be out of personnel, but somewhere else. How many times have we proposed, let us increase this reduction in general tax relief or increase to €7,000 to reduce the difference between Austria, which is 11,000, and Slovenia, and we always run into deaf ears. How many times have we proposed a development cap, and many such measures, you say we oppose your proposals. We probably supported your proposals 500% compared to how many times you supported our proposals. But do you know that for the opposition too, it is very disstimulating that you know that something is good, smart, necessary, and you refer to a comprehensive arrangement that is not from anywhere, and you reject everything? Then how do you imagine that we can work together if you refuse everything, even though you know something is necessary? Regression claims and so on. We have also proposed many things, useful, urgent, necessary. Or yesterday, when you refused to comply with the Constitutional Court's decisions, it is a minimum amount because you will no longer support church schools – it is easy for citizens. And I am afraid, as was the first point today, that once these parents who had to pay the compulsory primary schooling of their children will apply for the reimbursement of these costs with interest. Because the decision of the Constitutional Court was not complied with. In short, of course invest in R & D, basic research and also allow businesses to reduce taxes, contributions so that they can invest in development and personnel. Human potential, human knowledge, this is increasingly necessary, required and urgent if our economy is to develop. However, the economy employs, pays taxes and contributions, if the state employs more, as we see it, 11 thousand more people in the public sector, a greedy country, an increase in bureaucracy, which we are finally completely dissatisfied with, because we do not reward those who are good and better and effective, but are egalitarian, for all equally on some scales. And this is where the country saves to give to those who work better, who are more effective. That's what you were bragging about last week. You've saved a few million dollars for your work. How can people then be motivated to do better? I'll use one of the rivers that farmers use, the cow milks at the sponge. That means that if we feed her well, she will milk well. Companies that will be left with more resources to invest in development will pay more back because they will offer more jobs because they will pay better wages because the labour force will be able to pay better and so on. Why Save in Good Times? Because we all know that bad times are also coming after good times, the crisis must be overcome and there must be something in store. That is why we believe and listen to the Fiscal Council that, in these very good times, the country has put too little aside, too little savings or – I don't know how it will be necessary with the various reforms that are urgently needed, because we know that the number of pensioners will increase because, thank God, the age of the population is also increasing, which, of course, also brings more pensions, more health needs, unfortunately, we also have fewer births and even the eviction of young people. That is why the country will go into crisis. And if this government is proud now of how good public research is, I fear that the next government will have to do again what the government was doing in 2012 – to look for where we will take that state to function and feed all its subsystems. I, too, was sorry in that government, where we had to think only about where to take it, where to take it, and now that candy is being shared, and if not reform, then this crisis from the previous period will happen quickly again, because we do not have the answers to the challenges ahead. This is not just the opposition saying, this is what the experts say, and so is the European Commission. This is what analysts say – everyone. But now the ugly opposition says this out loud in Parliament – yes, because we are about to say what we think is wrong, that it is wrong to improve. I will also end up with greetings because this is our last meeting or we will meet at a festive meeting tonight, where only one will be able to speak, the other will listen, so: Dear colleagues and colleagues, even in New Slovenia we wish you blessed holidays, many beautiful experiences in the circle of your family, friends wherever you will be to be healthy. I always pray and pray to the Holy Spirit, and I hope that he will enlighten us as much as possible in the coming year to find good solutions together. However, as I said before, we are always in favour of good solutions, we are always in favour of constructive dialogue, regardless of whether we did not go to your coalition, but of course we also expect you to support, accept, praise, and support our good proposal because it is good and necessary. This, then, is what produces better cooperation, for that is why we are here — doing good for people. Well, good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. The next one has the word of Dr Darij Krajčič and Mr Franz Jurša is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President-in-Office. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today is the last meeting before the end of this year, it is the 99th day of this government's mandate and we have a financial framework for the following year at the table. I very much appreciate that the Government has drawn up this financial framework within 100 days, and that reminds me very much, I must say, of the origin story where the idea of 100 days was also born. I already said something about it yesterday. It was created in America in the 1930s when Roosevelt's government was named, and the result of his government was New Deal, world-famous. In those 100 days, the government was at peace because the opposition said that it would give her peace so that she could prepare the matter. Our 100-day term would be hard to say he was quiet. Yesterday I said that we had 17 extraordinary meetings, three regular sessions and 90% of the time we devoted to proposals, particularly the laws of the opposition. All but all the laws of the opposition have on the one hand reduced the budget's revenues and, on the other hand, increased expenditure. If you ran this country with such ideas of opposition, you'd be on your knees today. However, before this government began to work at all and the mandate of this Parliament began to function, it was very clear that the Government's programme was such that it meant the financial collapse of the country, that a fiscal rule was being violated and so on. Nothing like that ever happened. The government works well, has taken many steps forward in calming the situation, has agreed with the unions, has agreed with strike groups, has reached an agreement on minimum wage, and it is a matter of some, I would say, relatively peaceful development. The result of this development in a financial sense is still ahead of us today. As for the Fiscal Council, I also have a little mixed feelings. As a member of this National Assembly, I believe I can honestly say something about this. This financial framework provides for a surplus of 0.4 % over expenditure. 0,4 % of GDP. The fiscal world requires about 1%. I have a feeling that if you set it to 1%, you'd want to have a 2 and something like that. It's supposed to stop somewhere. This financial framework ensures the stability of public finances, and if we follow the advice of the Fiscal Council, many of the expenditure that increases the welfare of the people of certain social groups should be waived. Or higher pensions, or higher social transfers, or more for health care, or more for research and development, or whatever. I appreciate that the Government has prepared an excellent fiscal framework and I will also be happy to support it, because it balances on one hand what we as a society can produce in this economic time and what we can also afford to spend. With regard to taxes, we have heard many times from the Ministry of Finance that, as a country, we are taxed as compared to other Member States, but that we have problems with the structure of these taxes. This means that it is necessary to relieve citizens or taxpayers somewhere or entities contributing through the tax system to the Treasury and, on the one hand, to burden them. That's what's waiting for us. And if we have now raised the minimum wage – I imagine that it will also be pressure on other wages in this system to rise – but now it will be a slow turn for the country to relieve wages and burden some other matters in Slovenia, whether it is capital or real estate or something else. Of course, that's what's waiting for us. We have heard many times that one of the opposition parties had the best economic agenda before the coalition was formed. It was also just before it entered the coalition, and, of course, it could, to a large extent, be able to implement this programme, much larger than it is now when it is in opposition. And something's gone. Something little's gone. I wouldn't say it was out of courage. Something's gone. And that's too bad. Clearly, if it was a very good program, I believe that frustration is now so great that it cannot be realized if it were in there, it would be easier. The story we discussed yesterday was also within the framework of the draft of that coalition treaty, the agreements then more than not resolved, and now, it appears, of course, it is not. If we want to invest as a country in R & D, we have to get some money so we can invest in it. Of course, if we are reducing tax revenues, we cannot not invest there either. But the fact is that research and development are certainly the things that make society more competitive and better. And another point here is to mention, maybe not so closely related to today's event, but this is the poor use of the energy current going through this country and the poor use of material flow. But we'll discuss this another time. We together, in essence, without a vote against, including with the support of the opposition, despite having had a few reservations, supported both the law on the implementation of the budget and the minimum wage, as well as the Government's recommendation on improving the absorption of cohesion funds. I think that's a good achievement. In short, we have reached consensus on some things. Also, the things you have invested by the opposition through laws that on the one hand are burdensome, or in particular those that increase budget expenditure, are included in this financial framework, not perhaps through legislation, but ideally, an increase in social transfers, including an increase in pension expenditure. So an idea is also included in this financial framework. Finally, I would like to wish all my fellow Members, Madam President, a peaceful holiday, a calming and one good and a successful new year. And since we are in Advent and at a time of peace, when the Bethlehem Light Scouts are carrying around Slovenia, I also wish that during this period, when not even 100 days have passed, we would not go with a constitutional charge against the President of the Government for things he is certainly not responsible for at this time. And if we gave him at least three more months to sit well on his chair, then we'd start off with this accusation, if we had to make it work, then we'd do it. In short, from the point of view of 100 days from the point of view of peace, from the point of view of the Bethlehem light of peace, I suggest that today – I hope they hear me – they do not go with this action, which seems a little strange to me, forward. Out here we have one of the biggest Slovenian parliamentarians, Dr. Francet Bučar. He's been looking at us through these glasses all the time. Sometimes I think they would come, at least on these things that we've been talking about here lately, today don't – stop pouting afne, he said something like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador, for the wax. I wish you the same. Before we continue with the next debater, I would like to read all the applications, because there have been some cancellations. Mr. Franz Jurša will continue, followed by Matjaž Han, then Gregor Perič, Dr. Franc Trček, Andreja Zabret, Jani Prednik, Igor Zorčič and in the end the victory of Jelinčič Nobleni. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u36	Vice President, thank you for your word. The budget, whether at national or local level, is the most important document of that mandate. We're probably all aware of that in this room. I want to say that this is the first step of the budget for a certain period, and if the budget is adopted, then the Government can act in accordance with what is defined within it. I liked the Minister's presentation very much, I must admit, and I must also say that this is the first minister in my period, but it is not short in the National Assembly, which has concluded the matter on an occasion such that we have solid foundations that it is necessary to build on it. And he highlighted something else that I am glad to see — that human resources or people need to be cared for. Why am I exposing this? Because three, four years ago, when the economic crisis was in progress, we could say that we would have to take care of these things once in the years to come. I think it's a good time right now that we have a situation as regulated as possible. We must also be aware of the warnings of those who warn that things are already cooling down and that the Germans are preparing thoroughly for 2020, if there is to be an economic crisis. We must not forget this, but the key is not to forget people. I think the base in the budget is in this direction. Each budget, whether at local or national level, as I have already mentioned, must in some way be balanced. Revenue and expenditure. If it's not, then it's simple and simply impossible to close. In recent years, when the biggest economic crisis has been, we have talked a lot about how it has been managed in this country. In view of the pressures that were then, we are all well aware of this, we have also accepted such documents as Zuyf, who was not exactly the one who would bring it, but mainly the one who carried it away, also from the people. For this reason, of course, he was not too popular, but we find that some parts of this law still apply. In view of these pressures, a fiscal rule should also be adopted, which we have written in the highest legal act of this country, and that is, appropriate or as a consequence, the appointment of the Fiscal Council. We have a fiscal rule written down in the highest legal act, and on the other hand we have named or elected the Fiscal Council. He has his views and expresses them in his own way. Why some brief contacts have taken place, this will also come to light later. Some of you want to reduce this country's income at those levels and share it. That's not working. If we want to enjoy what we have in this country, to drastically reduce our income and, on the other hand, to increase our expenditure, there is an immediate consequence that will not be pleasant in the future. For many years, I have been alerting the adoption of budgets on certain matters. The government can relatively quickly develop the foundations of a particular document, according to the budget. It is true that there is a problem among the departments, that they express each other's interest and want to increase the revenue from the budget for their own portfolio, and on the other hand we are Members who actually accept this document. I think and I am sure, and I want this to change, that we Members have too little impact on the adoption of such an important document. Once, back in the past, there was much more to this impact. That is exactly why I would like to tell you, Mr Minister, to try this practice in the future, and it is you, of whom I have a positive opinion, that I will not now evaluate you in detail to change this practice as well. You have an ideal opportunity. This year, in the next year, I am satisfied with some things, and I will mention them briefly. The first is the coordination of pensions, regular and extraordinary. With extraordinary coordination, we actually want to somehow correct the injustice that occurred during the years of the recession, the economic crisis. This is 1.5% in the following year, and then this issue needs to be continued. We know that regular coordination is defined by law, and this will be done by 2.8%. Even with the work that the pensioners receive for the annual allowance, I am pleased, but I am pleased with this in particular – I must stress this, and here you have also played an important role, along with the President of the Government – that you have decided to share such a division, which is substantially more just. These grounds exist in Zpiz and also in the law on the implementation of the budget. More money will also be allocated to the health sector, which is very important for the older population or for older people, as health care is much more needed. Social transfers will also be on a higher level, and some of them are still showing why this transfer was raised in the previous year's term and, of course, we had to balance it somehow this year in order not to shrink. Many people who receive it are unable to survive themselves in any other way, but there are some of them – such as, if I am not mistaken, said Comrade Victory Jelinčič the Noble – who do not want to work. Finally, I would like to say once again that I am pleased that, in fact, you, with your proposal, are somehow influencing this budget in particular to be social.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor to prepare Mr Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u38	Thank you very much. In order not to forget, I too, on behalf of our Group of Members, would sincerely wish you all good, and above all a lot of respect between us, because I think that we all need this more fundamentally than we think. Second, I'll go to the numbers to make it easier. Sometimes I like to read the opinions, the views of foreigners who have either been recruited or live in Slovenia from all over the world. This is one section on the planet, Siola. I hope you'll read it sometime. I read it myself regularly, so that I have a little confidence and that a little out of my mind, from this Slovenian head, discourages negative thinking. Since we, my dears, have this country really nice, we have this country really safe, we have this country really social, we have this country, I'll say, solidarity and we'll say too many praises about how beautiful a country we live in. And then we fight over some ideologies, fight over some little things. Of course, there are still too many people in this country who are living badly, and we should all do more together to make it as few as possible. We have before us an important document, a document that is not only the result of Mr Bertonclj, which I also appreciate and have absolutely nothing against him, I think we have a very good minister, but the result of the work is quite a few ministers before him. Not to be said now that Mr Bertonzel had come to the country three months ago, but he has become a plus – he has not. But I'm optimistic because I know it won't come down to a minus, which is very important. Next thing. I have already participated in many budgets myself, as my colleagues have, and let us now be realistic, we have always said, the budget must be balanced. We all said that, we just forgot something – years ago when there were bad times, we had 2 billion minus in this country, we took less money into the budget and we spent more. Let us make it clear to ordinary people – we are now talking about some numbers – we are losing this moment less from the state budget than we are getting into the budget. 130 million - I think that's it - we get more in the budget and it stays in the budget. But this, my dear Italians now having a large country, has a 2% GDP, which is a large GDP, minus. [[…]] We have a plus. That didn't happen overnight! It didn't happen with Charc's team, it didn't do with social democracy, it was the Zuif's process, if you want. I agree, too. And that's why we have to be happy to have a plus. That's another thing. Our cash registers, all three cash registers, are getting better. We must be very pleased with that. We have a great or solid pension system. We have one luck in an accident or an accident in luck, it doesn't matter that people live longer, thank God. It is important how well they will live for a long time, that is very important. Because it doesn't do me any good if people live in homes and they've been in bed for 10 years. This is not a quality life for me. But they live longer. We have more older people, thank God, they need help. And we have 2 million people, and unfortunately, some mathematics doesn't work out, and, clearly, we give the budget for pensions almost a billion or over a billion, a billion, a hundred. I would be most pleased if we came up with such a policy that we could give, I don't know, a billion and a half, or a higher percentage, that we could give pensioners even more. This moment is not possible because in difficult times we have become confident or credited, and we have had to maintain some things socially. Some will say that too much, some will say that we did it wrong, but if we did it wrong, people would really live a bad life. You can't fix a thing like that in six months, I'll say, in a way over the decades you've come to the green branch. Today, my dears, we are one of the best countries in Europe when we look at these numbers, statistics and so on. Only the Irish are in front of us. Well, let's give it a shout. And now we're talking - sometimes I'm going to throw up, and I've been a lot abroad - how nice it is in Austria, how nice it is in Germany, how nice it is everywhere in the world. Yes — did anyone live abroad? Has anyone seen the cost of living abroad? They do have a bigger salary, yes, but when you draw the line at the end, did anyone wonder how many ladies have in our house, maternity ladies? [[…]] Did anyone know that we have relatively good kindergartens, that we have excellent public education, that we have good health care? Yes, there are some problems, but generally. In America, if you don't pay -- because we're all talking about America -- if you don't have insurance from your pocket paid, your door closes. You can be bloody, you can be half dead, your door won't open. My late friend, I'm not gonna name him, he stayed on the border, the sick man stayed on the Mexican-American border because he didn't have insurance paid. That's not what we have. But it costs something, and that's why we have a problem. Second. Although today is a beautiful time, at the end of the month I would not like to argue with the opposition, but, my dears, if you do not have anything more wise to say than a fiscal rule to excuse yourself for this story today, Friday, when we adopt the decree – where were you from Monday to Thursday? You forgot that fiscal rule in the drawers! From Monday to Thursday, you proposed €700 million in expenditure, the burden of this country, you did not comply with this fiscal rule. But I won't fight because it's a good time. Let's have a good time. The SDS seems to be working today, Darius, you will not experience this happiness, they have already filed this constitutional indictment, so the Bethlehem Light has not helped you. They filed a constitutional indictment. I see they're doing this because it's more ideologically interesting. But when it comes to dealing with finance, of course they don't. But if they're having a New Year's party, thank God, we'll have it in about two hours. I have to say that the matter is, of course, okay, that the minister heard where everyone said there was a little less money, on development and so on. But given that you're an academic, that you're a doctor, you know it's possible that we'll find another euro for this science over the years that won't give results this year, but it'll give results in five years or ten years, but that's why we have to invest. And one more thing, a ruling coalition party or a non-party, and so on, I find it difficult to listen to this because if you are a supreme coalition party, then you have to be first in line and say, "Now we're going to vote like this." They own themselves, of course, and it's not social, it's not solidarity, what's good, what's hard, and we do. But look, that's why we're some in this world to work out, but one of them is to pin their medals on. But you know how that thing, medals and bullets never hit the right guy in life. Once again, my dear, good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Gregor Perič. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! The proposal that we have on the table today is positive, because every single cashier has something to do, something to do, both to municipalities with higher averages and higher annual allowance, two reconciliations of pensions, regularly and exceptionally, and health care will also have more resources to cope with many challenges, we know that there are few. So that every euro will be useful and I believe that it will also be put in usefully or that it will be spent in a smart way. But I'm sure there's something you need to know. Today we have both in the government and in the coalition or in general in our society relatively sweet concerns, because the surplus we create, which remains, we have to somehow divide. Of course, there is always stress in every policy to do so in a way that everyone will be equally satisfied or equally dissatisfied. But it's still much better than a situation where there's no money, where there's a situation, if I put it like that, to pose and take it, you have to take it. But then it's very bad. I'll come back to that a little later. I'd like to remind you of something. Before we were hit by this crisis in 2008, the country was relatively small in debt, the debt amounted to some 22%, and in this period from 2008 to today it has risen to 80 %. Now he's coming down a little bit. It must be in the interest of all of us to devote as little money as possible to some high interest or repayment of some principals and as much to development as possible. But I always wonder how it's gotten so fast to grow this debt. Because, as we can see, before the crisis, the country was not in charge. But our companies were highly indebted. But when we talk about our companies, we need to be very careful. Most of the debt belonged to those big companies, those big companies, not the small and medium-sized companies that were actually driving our economy. This is where our problems come from, because we had these debts and these wrong decisions and policies in terms of how we dealt more with ownership than by strengthening the structure of our economy in a way that would be competitive even under worse conditions, where global interest is given to developing economic dynamics when exports fall and then we find ourselves in serious difficulties. As recently as April 2016, it was only then that Slovenia withdrew from this mechanism of the excessive deficit procedure. It is only since then that we have been discussing how we can distribute and allocate resources to all those subsystems of our society that urgently needed all these resources. But there is always a dilemma before us as to how much we will invest in social justice and how much we will spend on investment. This dilemma is sometimes misinterpreted and presented and missed. But surely we must always seek a wise balance. Investing only in social services, without strengthening infrastructure at the same time, is wrong and investing only in infrastructure, so as to forget all the gains of the social state, that we are not socially equitable, is also very wrong. Slovenia has felt strongly in the past the consequences of global economic flows, both in negative and in positive terms. Many have also not admitted to us that we grew faster than countries in our immediate surroundings, and everyone has said that this is the impact of some global economic dynamics, Slovenia has done nothing here. I think it was done very much, but it is also very much to do. The fact is that the crisis is soon to come, and the challenge of every government, including these governments, is to carry out as many reform measures as possible in a way that we will not be so comfortable with these trends anymore and that we can avoid – and this must lead all of us – so that we should at any time repeat a situation like that of Zujf, where we have some rights that we have committed to people, especially in the social field, then take and cut. Such measures cut very strongly into social tissue, and it takes quite some time for us to get back to that point of nothing, and at that time many things happen. This is indeed what I place on all of us, to do our utmost, and when necessary, we also go outside our framework, whether it is ideological or not, because we must always have the interests of our people at the forefront. I want the government to have a lot of energy, a lot of good will, and also all of us, to have enough wisdom when we move in this direction, and to find all these solutions that will be useful in the long term. Although it is easier in the short term and I am glad that people have also noticed that the signals sent by the Government are positive, this is not least reflected in very high public support. I think we must continue with this trend and with sufficient wisdom in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The next one has the word of Dr. Franz Trcek, prepare for Mrs. Andreja Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! Since my friend Han had to spoil his nice speech a little bit, I have to start with him. We all have a primary responsibility here, we own it under the constitutional arch. Of course, we have different agendas, in Brussels we would call the acquis, which also stems from a variety of ideological motives, and this is called parliamentary constitutional democracy. Pika. I can understand some SD distress, I also understand the tribulation of New Slovenia, but – before I go to the budget – there is a significant difference. There, after taking power within the party, the Tonins wanted to sit in two chairs and decided as they had decided. Finally, someone said he did more in two months than he did in four years. If I said that, they'd ask me at home for my health. On the other hand, with the exception of SD, maybe partly LMŠ or not, this coalition did not want Left. I opened the door when Karl Erjavec was in the middle of the sentence: “Not with Levice,” but the former Prime Minister and Prime Minister broke out of not being left in coalition and government. In any other country, the former prime minister and prime minister do not become a minister, and former ministers do not become secretaries or secretaries. But we don't have that maturity yet. Let's go to the budget. The more serious debate today was on the budget, although I must admit – not because someone would tell me to commend him a little – that I was happy with the current finance minister at the other part of the hearing when I somehow opened you up to become a professor. At that time, the one you remember was about every fourth of the Minister's sentence, "but in fact I agree with Trčko" and colleague Han sighed more and more. We have finally a finance minister who is a macro-economicist, but I hope to say that – although we will sometimes disagree or disagree in some parts of the Left versus the Minister – who is also a humanist. Because this must, of course, be the finance minister, even if the ministries in question are a little bit of a beating, because of course everyone would like to do more. In part, I will respond to Ludmila instead of Luke, which, otherwise, I greatly appreciate, but unfortunately, she is not. I agree with that, of course, that you suckle a cow at a sponge, but when I listen to what the right hand suggests, including New Slovenia, you deny yourself and forget about it. You forget the revenue side of the budget. When all your stories “let’s lower everything, up, down” – yes, damn it, but you know, even for the menzo will run out in Parliament, let alone for the pensioners, with your logic of looking at the finances. I've told you a lot of times that the state costs. We had this debate with the former Croatian Minister of Justice, who said: "Well, my Francis, a small country is expensive, but often too expensive." The only wealth we have is basically intelligence. Someone said funny, but, unfortunately, we've been losing weight in our heads for the last ten years. I would have hoped to put on the whole thesis that Slovenian politics has deteriorated considerably over the last 20 years. What's the budget? If I say perfoxar, the budget is a social contract, expressed in the universal equivalent. Pika. If I say in such a way that you will all understand – every Member or Member, whoever is responsible for the budgets, not only the one we are talking about, that the SD will not wait too long for the festival – when you open the budget, you must see the answers to the following questions: where we are going, where we are going, what we are going, what we want, what we want tomorrow, how we are going to distribute, what we are going to change, and how we are going to forget. And there's something else I can add. Who can't read this in the budget doesn't really talk about budgets. Everyone in this populist debate was blowing on the souls of the pensioners, and you were blowing up that we had to give more to develop. At that time, when the United Left of the Budget Amendment invested that would increase those amounts, I am talking about the amounts that were the rank, as far as I can remember, of any municipality of Murska Sobota, in order to put some oxygen in your head, you were all against. You've been against the coalition, you've been against it even now, there's no Premur's colleague, even in the right side of the opposition. It's no secret that we had a debate with the secretary in Levica this morning, and we basically agree here. We need to keep economic growth above 3.5% so that we can breathe around, live. Because of what previous governments and not a smart enough coalition have done through transition, they have done. The fact is, you know, more than comparison with Austria or with someone so few, we give about 10% of GDP for pensions, the EU average is 25% higher. Austria's on 14 and there's something else. Beyond this blow to the souls of pensioners and pensioners who go to the elections most regularly, you know, parties who will not deal with what I call the question of the nominee lie to the fat and not vote. Pika. The key development issue of Slovenia is the question of the nominee. We still remember so many fragments of primary school. Or if you want to express through some, as we say in academic spheres, key economic indicators, some key macroeconomic aggregates, how to raise GDP. And if they had my 10-year-old daughter at the top of the Slovenian economy there, and on one side they would be sniffing at what they want to have, while at the same time stuttering, the minimum wage will kill us, what my colleague Lenart said to them, would say: "Well, give it to the public" with a model like the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce, I call it, as on the right hand side of the NSI, we have already arrived the ceiling. [[…]] With a model like that, we're not going to come over, let's say over the thumb, but rather realistically, 53 billion GDP. You can't. This is now some crucial thought that awaits us in the year of reforms. You know, if we go to see the proportion of high-tech in our GDP, if we go to see how big this has grown, you'll see that it's a nice pointer, that we've released too much weight to the head for the last 10 years. There they also said: “Yes, we want to have a financial capital market.” There, Minister, you may have told them too politely: “Yes, pubes, you should create this financial capital to have a financial capital market.” I agree with my colleague Peric. This so-called public sector has not moved us to this hole, which is so much under the EU average that we are just below the average of EU development. Pika. What brought us here is what I call political feudalization. Political talent, who's going to make a difference in the economy, and negative selection. Krka doesn't have a problem with that. I was working in Novi Grad, but you wanted to go diving in the previous term of Cerarjev through an ordered audit through Hungary. That's where Kolarič said it very nicely in that interview. That interview, take a look at it in the Saturday Annex — how old it is now, what two years old. She had no problem with it because Krka now – which one? - He's signing the 49th Prize. The neck is very well aware that it must not get worse in the head. More than half my classmates and classmates worked in Krka, a third of them still work, most of them in another echelon right away. Now it's about saving or squandering spending. You know, respectable Lyudmila, one thing is whether we're going to go to the cookhouse now and we're going to say a letter, because maybe the elections will last, and this government won't last, and let's give a little more people to pay the cook, and then we'll hire a loan – yesterday, some of the parties cried as much as they have credit – and then we won't have a spring wardrobe or a new haircut. The second is when we talk about spending at national level, and this is what Luke talked about. And if we listen well, there's one difference between America and Germany. America for a common so - called man, although I do not like to use this term — it has a wallet about the same as it was in the 1970 ’ s, 80 ’ s. Germany is kind of a different story. Left is against financing development in private companies. We can go look at the magnetogram, Franz Trček said: “I will be the most satisfied person in Slovenia if we get zero from the capital gains to the budget if all these money goes to RTD.” That's where we touch the opinion of taxes. We have a very primitive tax policy, which is mainly excise. I have a whole series of colleagues who choose the entire Slovenian political spectrum of successful entrepreneurs who tell me – I do not boast like another party, “we walk in the field, we go to entrepreneurs”, I mean, a kid, everyone who seriously engages in politics has to talk to everyone who doesn't want to – who they say we are absolutely against this work that it is now. When someone who is politically connected gets grants, in good years one fifth, in bad years one tenth, and the rest we draw briefly.” In some serious countries, this is done through tax policy. In serious countries, fiscal policies are development policy instruments. But first we have to ask ourselves, what do we even want to do? This is what I have weighed down two thirds of the previous mandate of Restoration, a strategy of smart specialization. That's not it. In Brussels they laughed at us when we were there some peacocks, we wrote, we would do this smart, smart, smart thing, smart thing -- probably no policy would say, we would do this stupid, stupid thing, stupid thing. We should finally actually ask ourselves what we want to do, what is, as it says in English, and what is the pillars of our future development of the nominee. And here we are very much in agreement with the District Minister. Even so, we agree that sometimes my parents in Levica cut their ears. But that's basically the starting point. You know, say, uh, medium and small companies are the engine of our economic development In the morning we talked, Luke said very well, as much as we have our technology companies, new, young, good ones that arise, relatively quickly buy them from a foreigner. [[…]] And then we brag about it: "Look, that pub is great, Madonna, and he's not 30 years old, and he's already got millions." It's good, his story may be successful, but macroeconomically, it's a weight loss to the head, it's essentially an irresponsible policy. We have to set the thresholds so that this does not happen. Of course, there is also a need to finance basic research — a part of the policy that does not like to be heard. Personally, I also think that at the pre-graduate level of these 900 programmes we should come back to one third of this. Not because my colleagues in the academic sphere are going to be out of shape, but also because the academic sphere has to turn its head and get a little bit of this spin together. Just as we have to turn to our heads and start to communicate differently. I'd stop at that point. I agree with Matjaz that we live in a beautiful society and a country, but many do not have a good life. And this is our primary task. I wish you a nice rest of Advent, a lovely Christmas, which is basically, let's say, a polytheistic holiday, and there's something else I could say. A lot of health and peace. And since, after all, I'll probably spend at least the next three years and a half, if it's all good luck, more time with you than with my family, especially when I look at someone, I say Ecce, homo! Look, man! That's what's missing in this house. After five years, I can see that very clearly. Somehow I've already made up my mind, I've already said after the end of my first term, I'm not leaving you alone if someone kicks me in the ass, kicks him back in and stops here. Citizens and citizens should also take political responsibility and, after more than a quarter of a century, political beings and a variety of atrocities from this political spectrum should fall out of this byte. To make Buchar's glasses look better. Because when I was looking for a role model in Slovenian politics, I stopped at Frances Bucar's, and then I had four fingers left, and that's sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Before we proceed with the debate, Mrs Ludmila Novak has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u44	Since my colleague Trček has mentioned me several times, I will replicate it, even though I agree with what my colleague Trček says in most things. But I do not agree with the way my fellow moon has been debated, which you are now somehow defending and reshaping a little of his statement in your own way. As far as weight loss is concerned, I agree, of course, it is necessary to put in for research, for basic research, and also for companies to invest in research. We also get worse when we put too much pressure on an educated labor force because we tax it too much and then it goes abroad. And that's also a headache, because these educated heads are getting away from us, and then companies can't develop. As far as cooks are concerned, of course, I believe that we will not drink them together enough to spend it all, to waste it all, and we can afford it for a good, better relationship. We don't even have any such problems with Comrade Trčko, because we like to debate something, so it's not a problem whether it's left or right, the problem is only in the tracts implemented by Luke Moon and with which I absolutely cannot agree. However, let us not just stay at Christmas holidays, of course we must not forget the day of Slovenian independence and unity. Surely we are all proud of our country, and so let us be happy, let us celebrate this holiday too, hang our flags and set an example for our fellow citizens. No matter what mistakes we make and what we say here, what we disagree with, I am very proud of my country, my only one, even though I respect other countries and other nations. So let's celebrate this holiday.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Another replica, Mr. Joseph Horvat has it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u46	Thank you, Madam Vice President. This parliamentary dialogue is something wonderful. First of all, I have to say -- now that I'm going to abuse this replica, I'm sorry, last year -- I'm going to sign what my esteemed colleague Dr. Franc Runk, ece homo. You know, we're people in New Slovenia, too, and we talk, we don't stutter. So now that you're a fifth grade teacher, I'd like to teach each other, wouldn't you, Dr. Duck? [[…]] I wish it wasn't for me to be the one who's been wandering around your way. Come on, because we are in Cankar’s year, and we will not forget Cankar next year — we have a much nicer vocabulary. As for Achilles' heel and exports, this is now again a matter of dialogue for next year. I would like my colleague Luke Mesec, who is just coming into the hall, to explain to us how he is thinking – but next year, colleague Luke – about how to reduce this exports now. Since the simple bill shows – this will be confirmed by the Minister – that each of us must then spend 15,000 euros a year more at home, that is, on the thumb of a calculation. That's probably not gonna work, each of us two million. I also look forward to the dialogue next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. Although you predicted the abuse of the replica, I must admit that I did not detect any abuse of the right to the replica, you explained your debate. First of all, he has the floor for procedural Mr Darij Krajčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not think it is appropriate for someone to abuse the rules of procedure, so I ask that you give a warning to a fellow Member when he abuses the rules of procedure and publish it publicly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Kryczych. I said I didn't see Mr Horvat abuse his replica, so I won't give him a reminder. Dr. Duck has another procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u50	I have to respond to the blows under the dog. Comrade Jože, to the great joy, Trček does not have a fifth job, Trček is on the payroll for 30 hours of lectures on architecture in Maribor, where I get enough money to cover books somewhere or not. That way, somehow, you can sleep peacefully. But young people are going abroad because we have a gap between what we educate and what kind of economy we have, and that was the irresponsibility of politicians, and if you want from the decaying LDS to the end of Cerara's government. Pika. I'm abusing it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u51	Mr Trček, this really wasn't a procedural proposal, so in this place, because we are before the holidays, I am simply warning you not to abuse the replica anymore. Now we are making progress with the debate. Mrs Andreja Zabret has the floor and Mr Igor Zorčič should be prepared next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u52	Thank you. Let's get back to the dark. This government, which today has 100 days, took office in mid-September 2018. Since the previous government carried out a large part of its operations in 2018 alone, it was therefore not possible to take more important measures and amendments. Therefore, the current government is aware of the changed circumstances of macroeconomic assumptions and proposes to amend the 2019 decree. As has already been said several times today, the decree in question sets the ceiling for expenditure on all four public cash financing, the state budget, the municipal, health and pension registers. The amendment takes into account all measures taken, such as changes in averages, annual allowance and extraordinary harmonisation of pensions for pensioners, agreement on public sector wage policy, higher minimum wages and so on. This decree will allow for the preparation of the budget rebalancing foreseen in the coming year. At the hearing, the Minister of Finance stressed his commitment to increasing the well-being of all generations. Given that social transfers, public sector wages and so on have been saved in the past, we are aware that it is also right to take care of socially disadvantaged categories during times of economic growth, to reduce public debt and to have a budgetary surplus. With very different views, when one side says that we should save more and have more budget surpluses, on the other hand, which says that the assessment of the Fiscal Council is bad and wrong and that we should have a smaller budget surplus and give even more to social welfare, it is my opinion that no extreme is good. With the change of Zippers, we have taken measures to help the socially weak, young, pensioners receive higher pensions and regresses, and the municipal budgets will be thicker. Now we're gonna have to take care of the other side, that's for those 900 grand that work. Perhaps in terms of regression to relieve the so-called 13th and 14th wages and other segments that follow us immediately after the adoption of the rebalancing. I must say, as an economist, I am pleased that this is the first time we have a minister coming from the economic sphere and not from the academic sphere. To make no mistake, I have the same respect for everyone, but if you've ever worked in an economy that I come from myself, it's crystal clear to you that you can't spend any more than you created. I therefore respect the Minister's decision not to sign the budget minus. For structural reforms, however, to sound so worn out, we will need more time than the workload and, in some reasonable part, the additional burden of capital, the real estate tax, to balance it and to get closer to it in this part to some of the European standards that we seem to like to compare, and so do. Following multi-annual savings and positive surpluses in the state treasury, 2019 will focus slightly more on social policy and 2020 more on development, as Slovenia urgently needs development shifts if it is to maintain favourable living conditions and long-term sustainable social relations. The proposed decree is the right step on this path. I would like to wish everyone a nice holiday, spend it with your loved ones, and happy and successful year 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. Mr Igor Zorčič has the following word and as the last Mr Victory Jelinčič noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u54	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister! On our part, too, I wish everyone a pleasant Christmas and New Year's holiday, not least to all the viewers and viewers accompanying today's meeting. If I reframe this session on another occasion, I have six minutes left to discuss today, this discussion on the budget, I will try to illustrate the fiscal rule in a plastic way at this time that I have at my disposal. Looks like we're gonna be working in the coalition somehow, so I'm gonna be talking for a while after the warning sound today. The fiscal world says I'm limited in time. Left says I can speak even after that time, even though the microphone will be turned off. However, New Slovenia, I don't know if I can summarise the meeting, but the points we had yesterday at the regular session, says that we should talk significantly more, reminds us today of the time we have at our disposal. In short, the fact is that we are intertwining with some ideological aspects of fiscal policy. I think that the path we have taken in the previous term is a somewhat conservative fiscal policy, the right path. I am pleased that we are talking about giving more favor to municipalities, pensioners, those with minimum wages, those who receive social benefits. However, we must be aware that this would not be possible if, in the past, we did not take measures that were often unpopular. I am not surprised if any government has been in the past, but not only the government in 2014, under pressure from the public if it was unpopular and if we are now witnessing that the government is enjoying higher support. Last but not least, we need this government in terms of support, and I think it will make it easier for us to work in the future, and I hope that in a way that will somehow also take into account all the warnings given by the Fiscal Council. There was a lot of talk about higher minimum wages increasing domestic consumption. I may also agree with those who say that this will not happen, but that our capacities are full, that, after all, we are assuming that the labour force can happen, that higher minimum wages and higher incomes will contribute to higher imports, are likely to ruin the trade balance. These warnings can also be in place. I think that the ministry will have to monitor what is happening from a macro-economic point of view and a forecast for the future. And I won't be surprised if we're going to take any action in the future that won't be popular anymore. However, it will certainly be interesting to monitor all further regular meetings – I hope that there will be many in this mandate – when, even after today's warnings, New Slovenia, it is interesting to monitor at least the seemingly giving of some kind of candy, knowing that, in fact, our little one, if I say so, is closed. However, not only will I be critical, given that there is a broad consensus, but I think that there is also now in the past days, when we have passed a minimum wage law for example, I am sure that there will be a lot of understanding, either with further action or with further policies that can affect macroeconomic policy. I am pleased that the opposition can also be social at the same time, that it did not criticize us when we raised some of the expenditure, when we decided that what was, let's say, saved, even though we know that this is not the case, in the past mandate, that we will also be distributed among those who need it most, and that we will be as united as we will be if there is a black scenario that they predict. I hope that it will not happen what I fear is happening, that we have come from some crisis period to a time when we are facing a new crisis, in short, that we are always in some state of tension and that this situation will not affect any of the moods and not the last use of our citizens and citizens. Given that we are witnessing today, when we adopt this important document, a decision on the framework for the preparation of budgets, and that two of the opposition parties are making a constitutional accusation against the President of the Government, I think that this is something entirely unfounded. At this point, I would also like to commend my fellow Members from the New Slovenia Group that they did not join in this action, that they were so lucid and politically wise that they did not go into some kind of action, which will not be the last time, I believe, but only collided with the types of coalition partners, and perhaps contributed to the fact that in the following year, I hope that we will be even more successful than this, we will take new, profitable steps to the road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We have another reported replica. Dr. Runczek, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u56	Thank you. If one of them wants to kick ass, I have to answer on behalf of the Left. When we talk about time, unfortunately the time of Cerara's government was to a large extent lost time, and this is also pointed out by some serious economists, not just me. But what did a macro-economyist say about the former mandate-holder, and since I'm a decent man, I'm not going to say. There's another story. Bob of the Year apparently told the macroeconomicist of New Slovenia, who said that Levica was anti-export. I mean, wait, that's an intellectual insult, we're an export economy, we're gonna do most of the exports in a 500-, 600-mile radius, like that. However, Luke's fifth is, of course, a reminder of the structure of this export. And that's our problem. But before that, I forgot to say one more thing. Domestic consumption, we also discussed this with the Finance Minister in the morning. Domestic or if you want personal consumption after the crisis always comes with two, three years behind. We have a good 20 billion in smurfs, in the human language, but domestic consumption happens, and you need a stable policy. You need a different policy than the right-wing one and, unfortunately, it goes to the top of the SMC coalition, sometimes already the SAB. My friend Zorčič, after six months, it's time for you to also realize that you've gone down to one quarter, and so a little differently, you start to behave a little less vehemently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u57	Thank you very much. As a last-declared debater, Mr Victory Jelinčič is a nobleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u58	Thank you. The debate was very interesting and went from local problems to history. I think it is only necessary to say here that the government should think with its own head, not so much with the head of the European Union, which is acting in its own way and which is run by Germany. The reflections that the European Union is pushing us to implement are actually German reflections. If I go back a little back to history, in 1940 German economist Walther Funk essentially prepared a general report on what Germany’s economic development would look like after the war. On August 10, 1944, a Nazi meeting was held at the Maison Rouge Hotel in Strasbourg. It's funny that this Walter Hallstein became the first president of the European Economic Community in 1958, which shows that the Nazis who survived World War II were already creating the order that should rule Europe. The European Union has developed from the EEC and Germany is the main one. I think there's a problem here. Our government nods everything that comes from the European Union, what the Germans say, and they don't even think, but they immediately use everything they say. It would make sense, however, for our government to start using its own head, and I am sure that if anyone uses their own head, Mr Minister, with whom we are a pharmaceutical colleague, will be. The pharmaceuticals are just exact and weigh from the left and right, not just to put some poison in it. We've used poison enough already. First of all, I want this to happen, and that the Minister will not be the only one who will think carefully, but that someone else in the government will listen to him. Of course, this is a problem because it is necessary to solve all those failed attempts of anything that Cerar’s government has done and has brought the country into such a bad state. Since we are in such a time, I wish to bless those who believe Christmas, but all of us, to have a fine meal, to eat something good, to drink, to be healthy, and to go with joy to new victories, as they say, from victory to victory to a tragic end. I hope this ends as long as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-21-SDZ8-Izredna-18.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Noble. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate in which the representative of the Government, Mr Minister, gets the floor. He's quitting. All the debaters you wanted got the floor because the time set for the debate has not yet expired, and I ask if there is anyone else who wants to discuss it under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. Nobody. Thank you. We are concluding a general debate on the proposal for a decision. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendment could not be tabled at the assembly meeting, so we are moving on to a vote on the motion for a decree. Members and Members, please check the operation of their devices. We're starting the vote. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 41 votes in favour, 8 votes in favour. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Before we conclude this extraordinary meeting, a brief warning to Members and Members of Parliament. For the sake of today's meeting, I ask you to take all your belongings out of the hall. I hereby conclude the second item of agenda of the 18th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. Happy and beautiful holidays!
