ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, good morning! I'm about to proceed with the second session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Dr. Darij Krajčič, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti, Monika Gregorčič, Miha Kordiš, mag. Carmen Furman, Marijan Pojbič and Dušan Šiško until 12 o'clock. Once again, I politely welcome all those present! We're moving to 2. Agenda item — Proposal for a Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to complement the explanation of the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The bill before you is the implementation of European capital market rules, which are better known under MiFID and MiFIR. These are acts setting out the conditions for companies providing investment services and/or trading in securities and financial instruments. In particular, the new European legislative package aims to address the consequences of the financial crisis, to improve the transparency of the financial market and to improve investor protection. The provisions of the Directive will be transposed into the Slovenian legal order by this bill. The provisions and regulations of the MiFIR and the resulting delegated and implementing acts of the European Commission are already directly applicable in all Member States of the European Union from 3 January of this year. In addition to the content needed to comply with the European legal order, the draft law also contains provisions that regulate in more detail the scope of the investor claim guarantee system. Thus, the obligation of the members of the guarantee system to claim investors with respect to the current provision of the guarantee and, in particular, in the event of the activation of this system is better regulated. This eliminates certain deficiencies that have occurred in the event of the bankruptcy of Moja Share in 2016. Slovenia is delaying the transposition of the directive into our legal order and therefore an urgent procedure is needed. On 19 July 2018, the European Commission announced an action for infringement of the non-notification of Slovenian rules for the transposition of EU rules. The bill was prepared by the Ministry a long time ago. During the previous term of office, the Government confirmed it on 2 January 2018 and submitted it for adoption to the National Assembly. The adoption was foreseen at the April meeting of the National Assembly, which was also communicated to the European Commission in response to its reasoned opinion. The new government has proposed to the National Assembly in a new constitution that the law should be dealt with as a matter of priority, so that the legislative procedure was carried out practically until this meeting. We have been informed by the State's Attorney that the European Commission is 5. Ten. 2018 brought an action and proposes to the Court that Slovenia impose fines. Slovenia is the last country in the European Union to transpose the provisions of the Directive into the Slovenian legal order. Taking into account all the delays of today's 505 days, the flat-rate amount of the fine of EUR 999,000 is currently increasing with each day until the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Let us define ourselves on some other aspects that have been present in the consideration of this law. First of all, these are the comments made by the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders and their European Better Association of Finances, both sent to the Ministry of Finance and to the public. The essence of these comments is that they do not agree to shorten the time limits in which securities may be deposited in notaries to act as custodians. The Ministry of Finance followed the recommendation of the Bar and extended this period of possible feeding from 6 to 12 months. However, it followed the previous legislative procedure where Members and Members were very clear that fiduciary accounts in Slovenia were not possible. Next. The All-Slovenian Association also refers to the fact that it is not possible to pay dividends according to simplified procedures in the package. We have examined these observations thoroughly, but the legal regime already allows such a simplified payment of dividends. We propose that the National Assembly approve the draft law and that the law enter into force as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your report. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance as a parent working body. I ask Mr Robert Polnar, chairman of the committee, for a report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! At its 2nd meeting, on 6 November 2018, the Finance Committee considered the draft Law on the Market in Financial Instruments submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 5th meeting on 31 July this year that a proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. As a material for the meeting, the Committee received the following documents: the opinion of the Legislative Legal Service of 22 October, the appeal of the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders of 6 August, the proposals for amendments to the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders of 28 September, the Agency for the Market in Securities on the proposals for amendments to the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders of 9 October, the opinion of the Ministry of Finance of 9 October, the opinion of the Committee on Economics, Crafts, Tourism and Finance of 24 October, and finally the response of the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders to the views of the Ministry of Finance and the Agency for the Market of Securities on the proposed amendments of 25 October. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, as referred to in Article 78. The coalition's parliamentary groups have also tabled two amendments to the amendment, paragraphs 5 and 94 of the bill. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legislative Service, the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders, the Securities Market Agency and the State Council participated in the meeting of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance presented the objectives, principles and main solutions to the bill. He explained that the proposal for a law represented the implementation of European capital market rules and stressed that, in addition to the content needed to comply with the legal order of the European Union, the proposal also contained provisions that deal in more detail with the scope of the investor claim guarantee system, thus addressing certain shortcomings in the previous regime. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly stressed that they had given a written opinion referring to the opinion submitted to the proposal of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments in the previous term of office of the National Assembly. The legislative procedure was then terminated due to the end of the term of office of the National Assembly. It noted that the draft law under consideration contained the same solutions and therefore there were warnings from the Legal and Legislative Service to the same extent and also explained that the amendments tabled improved the text of the bill in terms of clarity of the uniformity of expression and certain definitions. The representative of the Council of State expressed support for the bill. Also, the representative of the Securities Market Agency, who explained that this was a key proposal for a law that would allow the implementation of a comprehensive set of rules and highlighted the need for a detailed and precise regulation of this area. The representative of the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders presented their position on the proposal for a law, highlighting the shortcomings they considered in the draft law and presenting some possible solutions. The debate drew attention to the need for better preparation and greater coordination of government legislative proposals, thus reducing the need to amend the legislative texts in the National Assembly. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has examined the amendments of the coalition's parliamentary groups and adopted them all. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text supplemented by the proposal for a law incorporating amendments is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Jožef Horvat The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today's proposal for a law that is new and comprehensively regulated the broad and complex area of the regulatory regulation of the financial instruments market. The proposal for a law gives rise to the implementation of two directives and two regulations. At the outset, we must reiterate our regret that we are adopting the law as a matter of urgency because the European Commission has already decided on 19 July to file an action for infringements of the non-notification of the rules for the transposition of several European directives. The Zards are threatening us with fines. According to the Government, the European Commission intends to propose to the Court of Justice of the European Union that Slovenia impose a daily fine of EUR 7 000 224 per day. In addition, Slovenia is threatened by a flat-rate amount of EUR 000 978 per day, which Slovenia is starting to pay at EUR 496 000. This amount has already been exceeded as Slovenia is already more than one year behind in the transposition of Directive 2014/65. At the time of the introduction of the law, the flat-rate amount was already around €750,000. We therefore expect a much greater degree of responsibility from the Government in New Slovenia in such processes. It is not permissible, ladies and gentlemen, that such complex matter, namely the law has 562 articles, should be dealt with in an urgent manner. But citizens need to know where and why we're running out of money. We know why it's leaking. Because of negligence in this case. And as I correctly assess from the Secretary of State, Mr Dragonje, the statements which he has also made here very clearly. While in New Slovenia we welcome the fact that the Government has finally drawn up the law that introduces those directives into our legal order. As a positive assessment, the bill follows a real development outside the organised market and introduces a new, third trading venue, an organised trading system or an OTF. The bill also applies to small and medium-sized enterprises which have greater difficulties and costs in raising capital in equity markets compared to larger issuers. In order to facilitate their access to capital, the proposal introduces a new sub-category of development markets for small and medium-sized enterprises within the category of multilateral trading system, which we welcome. However, on the other hand, it is unreasonable to see the Government's justification for restricting the management of securities in a fiduciary account with a lawyer or notary. The Government shall base its position on the possibility that customers may use fiduciary accounts in neighbouring countries where such accounts are permitted. The government in its position even states, quote, "that the fiduciary accounts applicable to the Republic of Slovenia are prohibited can be avoided by anyone opening a fiduciary account abroad". End of story. This raises, of course, the question of why insist on imposing a ban on the management of securities in such accounts, even if they are permitted by all neighbouring countries. In New Slovenia, we believe that, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, it would be good for the parties to allow more opportunities to freely choose their own way of managing fiduciary accounts, of course, with the necessity of presenting all the risks that could arise from different modes of management. The role of the State in this area should also be limited to the lowest level necessary. Despite some positive solutions due to the New Slovenia proposal for a law on markets in financial instruments, we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is certain that the past economic and financial crisis has shown that existing macroeconomic models and financial theory are unable to explain processes that distance the prices of financial instruments from their fundamental values. This needs to be understood because there will certainly be a political effort to strengthen the regulation of financial markets. The objective is an economic policy based on macroeconomic models that take much more into account business cycles and any type of instability, in particular those leading to financial crises. Everything they've been telling us in the last ten years has been fake. The markets did not operate on their own, but the creators of financial instruments were not infallible geniuses. In fact, we discovered that money was a political instrument; it was possible to invent billions of euros overnight, which also disappeared overnight, provided that they agreed or wanted the government or the central bank to do so. The global financial masters have convinced the public that their models are working well and that risk-prevention techniques and methods of dispersion are developed to perfection. They all acted as if they understood the complicated models on which esoteric financial instruments were based. The financial balance of skills has expressed a victory over common sense. However, the fact is that it is difficult to oppose someone who in a year on New York Wall Street or in London City earns as much as, for example, a university professor in his entire life. At such a level of thinking, it is easy to make a mistake, thus turning recklessness and rudeness into a mind, knowledge, and virtue. Inadequate regulation of financial activities does not only affect illegal practices, but rather promotes excessive speculation in those who constantly vote for earnings. That is why we need a clear view of the functioning of individual institutions and, above all, how individual institutions can contribute to the creation of a more sound economic regime. The new legislation on the market in financial instruments gives rise to the hope that the old big mistake will not happen again, as it is based on the knowledge of the correctness of the conclusion that one is a known goal and another is how to achieve this objective. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a law on the market of financial instruments. We will also support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds Managers, because these two laws are directly related to the basic law on the market in financial instruments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. A nice welcome to the chairman, to the Secretary of State with the team and everyone else present! We have before us the Law on the Market of Financial Instruments by Emergency Procedure. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly to be considered in order to prevent serious and irreparable consequences for the country. It is the protection of financial instruments and funds belonging to the parties to the obligations relating to the management of products and rules used to provide or receive fees, commissions or any monetary and non-monetary benefits in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Since this is a violation of Directive 2014/65-EU, it has been delayed for more than a year. This is a daily financial penalty of EUR 2 000. We even have an amount of €750,000, but today the Secretary of State has fixed me, which is now 999,000, so to speak, a million euros. This will continue to increase until the fulfilment of its obligations, or until the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The European Commission has introduced a new monetary penalty approach for directives adopted in accordance with the legislative procedure to systematically require the Court of Justice of the European Union to impose a lump sum on the State in addition to the daily fine. However, if the European Commission requests payment of the lump sum, it will no longer withdraw the action in the event that the State fulfils its obligations in the course of the proceedings, which means that the Court of Justice of the European Union, despite the fulfilment of its obligations in the judgment, will be subject to payment of the lump sum which punishes the Member State for the duration of the infringement until its abolition. Given that the European Commission has announced that it will also propose to the Court of Justice of the European Union for the Republic of Slovenia in the specific case of imposing a lump sum payment, the imposition of a penalty will not occur if the Republic of Slovenia fulfils its obligations before the action is brought. In fact, the law represents the implementation of European rules on the capital market. This is essentially the area of the investor claim guarantee system, thus addressing certain shortcomings in the previous regime. As this is also a support for the proposal by the Council of State, the Legislative and Legal Service has also given a green light for the law in question, as well as a representative of the Securities Market Agency. It must be said, however, that VZMDs were critical to the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders because they fear that a domestic article of the law, which has nothing to do with the European Directive, would arise again in the transposition of the European Directive into our national system. In the Slovenian National Party, we do not oppose the proposed law. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u12	Your Honor, the President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on the market in financial instruments regulates in more detail the rights of investors or the obligations of investment firms and bankruptcy managers of supervisory institutions and other participants in the event of bankruptcy of a trading firm or investment firm and lays down detailed rules and procedures relating to the establishment, provision and activation of a guarantee system for investors' claims or the full payment of guaranteed investor claims. The proposed law already dealt with the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, where we could have followed the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we regret that the representatives of the Government or representatives of the Ministry of Finance have not responded in more detail to the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and have not implemented them in the Law on the Market of Financial Instruments itself. We find with even greater regret in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the Government or the Ministry of Finance has been lagging behind in the transposition of the European Union Directive into the Slovenian legal order. The Directive of the European Union was adopted already in 2014, today at the end of 2018 and we adopt this Directive or we introduce it into the Slovenian legal order. Due to delays, the Slovenian budget will have to pay fines. This also reflects this irresponsibility of the Government and the poor work of the Ministry of Finance. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we call on the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to be more effective in the transposition of European Union directives into the Slovenian legal order. We are sure that time was enough, but the Ministry of Finance's responsibility is great. There is no doubt, however, information from the media shows that this is not the last directive of the European Union that has not been implemented in the Slovenian legal order in a timely manner and that we are therefore again calling on the Ministry of Finance to do its work more effectively and more responsibly. We will not support the proposed law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We will not support it in particular because of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service and, on the other hand, the Ministry of Finance or the Government did not take these comments into account. Moreover, she did not make any arguments as to why she did not take these comments into account by the Legal and Legislative Service. But we will not oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Andreja Zabret will speak on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, List Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we will present a common position on agenda items 2, 3 and 4. The proposed Law on the Market in Financial Instruments (ZTFI-1) also links the novelties of the Law on Alternative Investment Funds Managers and the amendment of the Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies. So all three laws form a meaningful package. We will finally transpose into the Slovenian legal order the provisions of certain EU capital directives and regulations, which we should have done a long time ago. Ever since the global financial crisis a decade ago, we have seen a reflection on how to properly regulate the market for financial instruments, where this crisis of unsuspected dimensions has triggered it. The main purpose of the law is therefore to prevent high-risk speculative transactions that we have witnessed from being repeated. In addition to the transposition of directives, the law contains a chapter that further regulates the investor claims guarantee system in particular in the work relating to the obligations of the members of the guarantee system. These will have to provide liquid assets that provide a guarantee for the payment of guaranteed investor claims. This will prevent situations that we have witnessed in the past when investors in certain investment firms remain empty. These companies used the money of investors without value and without rules and eventually also lost money in private transactions. We also welcome the efforts of the applicants to control algorithmic trade, which has overrun the securities market in recent years. Algorithm trading, according to analysts, is often responsible for a number of sudden downturns in markets or so-called flash crash cases that we have witnessed in recent years. More and more transactions in global stock markets are expected to be made by computers with pre-programmed algorithms, and it is therefore essential that this subject also be given more attention when updating the rules. With regard to certain concerns raised in the current hearing, however, we would like to point out that we have decided in Slovenia that fiduciary accounts in the Slovenian environment, except in exceptional cases, are not acceptable, as we are seeking a transparent capital market that allows us to inspect ownership and prevent potential abuses. For all the reasons listed above, we will support all three laws in the Parliamentary Group of the List of Marjan Šarca. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u15	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Jani Prednik will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u16	President, representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament, nice greeting! The Financial Instruments Market Act is the main basis for regulating and regulating the issuance, handling and trading of financial instruments. Since the last financial crisis, new and uniform European rules have also been established for this sector, with the aim of effectively preventing private risks that could result in the repayment of damages by taxpayers and consumers. For the purpose of regulating the financial sector, the European Union has adopted in recent years a series of new rules requiring Member States to adapt their legislation to this framework. Its key outlines are set out in the European Directive adopted in 2014 and should be aligned with national legislation by the end of last year. In the previous term, the proposal for such a law was prepared and its purpose was to regulate the area more comprehensively. Since Slovenia is already very late to transpose the directive, the European Commission has already initiated procedures that can lead to high monetary penalties. That is why today there is a law before us that focuses on the transfer of all the key solutions already commanded by European legislation. It is primarily the status of the Agency and its ability to monitor the behaviour of market participants. In particular, the new rules offer stricter criteria and obligations for operators and service providers in capital markets, as well as stricter protection of consumer rights. Together with the law that we are also considering today, with the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act and with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Act, this law creates a legal framework whereby Slovenia will fully transpose the provisions of the European directives into its legal order and thus ensure compliance with the uniform rules throughout the European Union. Your Honor! This law is an area that does not directly touch many people. However, the attitudes of those on these markets can have great consequences for all of us. That is why we are advocates of strict regulation and ownership, which is not behind foreign names. We are aware, however, that European rules are developed for a wide range of areas and that, above all, in small markets, they can lead to high operating costs, which are generally imposed on consumers by providers. The adoption of the law also raises questions as to whether our consumer protection system works well enough in financial markets. Some smaller securities holders point to high operating costs and transfers of activities that are not sufficiently protected by the new law. Strict regulation, including a small number of bidders, thus diminishing competition as the basis for consumer protection. We believe that all these problems will have to be addressed soon and therefore we expect a more proactive approach from the competent ministries and regulators in the future. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a new Law on the Market in Financial Instruments. The same applies to our support for the amendment of the investment funds and management companies laws and the managers of alternative investment funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. On behalf of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Matej Udovč will present her views. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u18	Your Honor! We have before us the proposal for a law on the market in financial instruments, which will provide investors with safe and transparent business in the area of trade in shares, bonds and implementing financial instruments. This law is important in harmonising EU law, as it brings a new European legislative package from this area into Slovenia's legal order. The law also regulates more closely the existing legal institutes, which need to be amended or recast in order to be more effective in practice. In the area of the investor claim guarantee system, it now provides for their remuneration in the event of bankruptcy of a stock exchange or investment firm. Financial services are a very important area in which the EU seeks to establish an internal market for the free movement of goods, services and capital. The global financial crisis in 2007 and 2008 has highlighted the need for reform of the financial services sector, and the EU has therefore launched a comprehensive reform of the financial services legislation that ensures the financial sector's resilience to their services. This enables citizens and businesses to save, protect against risks and invest in the common future. The overall financial legislation in the EU aims to restore financial stability and create a financial system that benefits the economy and investors and brings the European Union back to a path of sustainable growth. The new legislative framework improves investor protection by introducing strict requirements and practices and by strengthening the role of supervisory powers of regulatory authorities. In the SMC Group, we want to highlight the intent of the law, which increases investor protection. The new legislation will provide investors with greater protection through measures such as commission restrictions, conditions for the provision of investment advice services, stricter organisational requirements for the design and transmission of financial products, powers to intervene in financial products and the disclosure of commissions and other costs. Investment firms must act in accordance with the best interests of the parties. The new law also further regulates the investor claim guarantee system, which will ensure the full, effective, transparent and supervisory payment of investor guarantee claims in the event of a bankruptcy of a stock exchange company. The proposal of the law is consistent with all stakeholders, namely both supervisors, the Securities Market Agency and the Bank of Slovenia, and financial institutions such as the Securities Exchange Association, the Association of Banks of Slovenia, the Association of Management Companies, the Ljubljana Stock Exchange, individual stock exchange companies and the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia. The bill is opposed only by the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders. In the SMC Group, their proposals on unlimited storage in fiduciary accounts have not been taken into account because they bring about the impossibility of the capital market. We propose to set a time limit for keeping securities in a fiduciary account. The new law will impose a time limit on fiduciary accounts within 12 months of the entry into force of the law. In the Modern Centre Party, we believe that a period of four years is long enough for the investor to decide what he will do with his securities. With regard to the proposal of the Association for the pooling of dividends in one instalment, we note that this can be regulated already in contractual relations. However, as regards the winding-up of brokerage companies and the cessation of the management of investment services and business, we would like to point out that it is in the interest of the parties or investors to provide adequate legal protection. The latter must be regulated or regulated by the State. However, all activities after liquidation are not in the country's domain, but are a matter of contractual relations between the party and the new operator. This is a matter of free choice of the party whether it will stay with or replace the new stock exchange company. Therefore, it is crucial for us to protect investors and to relieve them of any additional costs. According to our assessment, the law contains the right measures to ensure financial stability and improve the supervision of financial markets and the protection of investors, and we will therefore support it on the basis of these arguments in the SMC Group. This is also our contribution to a uniform legal order in the European Union or the harmonisation of European Union law, as I mentioned at the outset. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u19	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Primož Siter will be presented as the last position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering a package of three extremely technical financial laws under urgent procedure. The first, heavy 562 articles, regulates and regulates the market for financial instruments, the other two propose regulation and supervision of investment funds, the first public and less risk, and the others are more risky. I'm taking a stand for all three at once. The main objective of the adoption of these three laws is to replace and complement the current regulation in the field of the market in financial instruments with a view to the transposition of the last two of the 10 European Union directives into the Slovenian legal order. Delaying the transfer is also the main reason why the law is proposed by emergency procedure, since Slovenia is already late and is threatened with fines. While the bill seeks to regulate and modernise the legal framework of the financial instruments market, regulated and free, and aims to ensure transparency. On the other hand, it shows some shortcomings in the handling of sensitive data. Given the nature of the law, therefore, this moment is a difficult time to assess its appropriateness and need. We absolutely support the regulation of financial markets in Levica. Even though in recent years financial markets have again felt burdened and are talking globally about an economy that has recovered since the previous crisis, this cannot be claimed for the people, not here, not even on the global periphery. Policies adopted under the pretext of austerity measures continue to be pursued. Moreover, at this age, threats and fears of a new crisis have been re-emerged, not yet of the fat ones, but not of the more war-torn cows, which require us to continue the fight with the belt tightening policy. Just in case and for the winter break. The increase in the volume of investment funds of all types is too disproportionate to the social security crisis, based on the principle of solidarity, always results in commercialisation, i.e. decomposition of social and health care, and strengthen social inequality. Plastics are public insurance systems that are no longer quality enough for the whole population to persist in the policy of austerity rather than in the construction of a social state. Therefore, those who have this option react to the reduction of pensions and the quality of health and other social services through individual savings that affect increasingly risky investments. The ones who can afford it, of course. I repeat, this means a speculative approach not only on markets but also in protecting the environment, housing policies and public health. A holistic approach to the environment and society is something that always takes its last place under given conditions. We call it the more regulated market for financial instruments, which will build a stable public financial system. Due to past delays in the procedure, an inappropriate and unscheduled procedure by the Ministry of Finance and the ever-increasing penalties to the bill, despite the concerns in Levica, we will not object. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With this, honourable Members and honourable Members, we have concluded our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I take it the amendments have not been tabled. Since there are no amendments in the second reading, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item — Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies, urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The new Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act is in fact technical and editorial. In relation to the previous Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, appropriate regulation should also be provided for other players in capital markets and proper reference should be made to the Articles arising from the Basic Law on the Market in Financial Instruments. Pursuant to the European Directive, management companies, in addition to investment fund management services, can also provide financial instruments management services and ancillary services such as investment advice and storage and administrative services related to these instruments. The purpose of the law is to ensure the legal consistency of the entire package of laws and also, in the view of the Legal and Legislative Service, it is very important that the cross-referenced articles are cross-referenced in order to ensure that the regulatory regulation of the capital market is adequately ensured. We therefore propose that the amendment of this law be approved in the further legislative procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Mr Robert Polnar, Chairman of the Committee on Finance, which is the working body of the mother, has the floor. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u24	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! At its 2nd meeting on 6 November this year, the Committee on Finance considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. At its 5th meeting on 30 September this year, the College of the President of the National Assembly approved the urgent procedure for the adoption of the law. The Committee received the following additional material from the draft law: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of 22 October, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance of 24 October and the amendment of the parliamentary coalition groups of 29 October. The Committee was attended by representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, the Legislative and Legal Services and the Securities Market Agency. In the introductory explanatory memorandum, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained that the draft law abolished the reference to the previous Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, which would terminate with the adoption of the new proposal, following the objectives of ensuring legal certainty and ensuring clarity, transparency, quality and certainty of the rules. The legislative and legal service has examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects. In its opinion, the Service made some comments of a substantive nature and specific comments to the individual article of the bill, which was also taken into account by the amendment of the coalition groups. A representative of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, who supports the proposal of the law, also presented the Committee in writing. The representative of the Securities Market Agency also supported the proposal of the law. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has adopted the amendments tabled to the article of the bill and the amendment. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the adoption of the amendment, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. We are now moving on to a presentation on the views of the Group. Mr Jani Ivanušo has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to everyone again. I'll be very brief. We have before us a proposal for a law on investment funds and management companies. The aim of the law is to ensure legal certainty and to ensure clarity, transparency, including the quality and specificity of the rules. The law shall take into account the principle of certainty that guarantees legal certainty and trust in law and prevents different interpretations in practice. This law is intended to provide a major solution in ensuring greater transparency, the content of the law and taking into account clarity and certainty in regulating social relations. Nor does the law have implications for the state budget, nor does it have consequences for other public funds. The proposal for a law is in line with the legal order of the European Union, with the aim of harmonising legislation within the European Union and its implementation of European Union directives into national law. In the Slovenian national party, we do not oppose the proposed law, as we said in the previous law, to intertwine. But we won't back him up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u28	Dear President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act – the main objective is to eliminate the reference to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, which will terminate with the adoption of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments-1, following the objectives of ensuring legal certainty and ensuring clarity, transparency, quality and regulatory certainty. We will not oppose the proposal of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ms Mateja Udovč will present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u30	Proposal for a Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds Managers and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies should be considered at the same time, at this regular meeting of the National Assembly, due to their substantive connection and the need for simultaneous publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, the adoption and joint implementation of the so-called troika are necessary because the adoption of a new law on the market in financial instruments, to which both the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Act and the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act, ceases to apply. In both of these, the Law on the Market of Financial Instruments, the novels remove references to the law in force and provide for a reference to a proposal for a new law. At the same time, certain new solutions and related criminal provisions are also laid down for infringements of new European legislation or Directive 2014/65, Directive 2016/1034 and Delegated Directive 2017/593 and for the arrangements for the implementation of Regulation 600/2014 and Regulation 1011/2016. As far as Regulation 2015/760 is concerned, the latter has not yet been exposed and it is worth noting that it encourages European long-term investment in the real economy. This Regulation lays down uniform rules on European long-term investment funds in order to avoid infringements by the administrator of the European Long-term Investment Fund or inadequate application of the rules. However, the management, risk, marketing and others determine, as already mentioned, also the related criminal provisions or sanctions. On the basis of the above arguments, we will support the so-called troika in the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u31	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. As the last word you have, Mr Jožef Horvat, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act is closely and logically linked to the new proposal for a law on the market in financial instruments. Since the laws are interconnected, the amendment of the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act is due to changes made by the new Law on the Market in Financial Instruments and brings about logical harmonisation and adaptation, which is of a nomotechnic nature. Since the new Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies is inseparably linked to the new Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, the vote of the New Slovenia Group on both laws will also be the same. We will not support or oppose the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There have also been no amendments to this law in the second reading, and I therefore note that the decision on the draft law will be in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda. With this, I also interrupt this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is to the contrary the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds Managers by Emergency Procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The Act amending and supplementing the Law on Alternative Investment Fund Managers amends the law in those provisions where it has to be aligned with the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments. The bill removes references to this first law, because of the substantive linkage and the need for the simultaneous publication of all three laws, all three laws are dealt with in a package. The proposal for this amendment further regulates the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 760/2015 of the European Parliament and of the Council on European Long-term Investment Funds. The main purpose of this Regulation is to promote European long-term investment in the real economy. This Regulation lays down uniform rules on European long-term investment funds, while also introducing appropriate criminal provisions in the legal order where legal persons managing these funds do not have the right to do so and do not meet the conditions laid down in the European Regulation. By approving this third law from the legislative package, we will provide a consistent legislative framework for the further development of the capital market also in the Republic of Slovenia, so we propose that this law be supported and validated in the legislative process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. I give the floor to Mr Robert Polnar, President of the committee responsible. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u36	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Committee on Finance is as a parent working body at 2. At its meeting on 6 November this year, the Government submitted a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Alternative Investment Fund Managers to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. At its 5th meeting on 31 July this year, the College of the President of the National Assembly approved the urgent procedure for the adoption of the law. The Committee received the following additional material from the draft law: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 22 October and the opinion of the Commission of the State Economic, Commercial, Tourism and Finance Council of 24 October. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the Agency for the Market in Securities attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory explanatory memorandum, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained that the draft law abolished the reference to the previous Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, which would expire by the adoption of the proposal for a new law, following the objectives of ensuring legal certainty and ensuring clarity, transparency, quality and certainty of the rules. The legislative and legal service examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. A representative of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, who supports the proposal of the law, also presented the Committee in writing. He also expressed support for the proposal by the representative of the Securities Market Agency. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Given that the Committee on Finance, as a parent of the labour force, has not adopted any amendments to the draft law, the Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, you have the word "magic." Marko Pogačnik, Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u38	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Alternative Fund Managers Act also removes the reference to the Market in Financial Instruments Act, which will expire with the adoption of the ZTFI-1 proposal. This ensures the objective of legal certainty and ensures clarity and transparency, quality and certainty of regulations. We will not oppose the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jožef Horvat you have the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance, dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a law governing the management of alternative investment funds. These are funds that, unlike other funds, such as mutual funds, are much more flexible, as they can invest in a wider range of investments. While mutual funds may generally invest investors' assets only in shares, other funds and bonds, alternative investment funds may also invest in, for example, precious metals, derivatives, real estate and so on. This may also lead to greater risks. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Alternative Investment Fund Managers is also closely linked to the new proposal for a law on the market in financial instruments. Since the laws are interlinked, the amendment of the Law on Alternative Investment Fund Managers is due to changes made by the new Law on the Market in Financial Instruments and brings about logical harmonisation and adaptation, which is mainly of a nomotechnic nature. Since the amendment of the Law on Alternative Investment Fund Managers is inseparably linked to the new Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, the New Slovenia Group's vote on both laws will also be the same. We will not support or oppose the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Alternative Investment Fund Managers.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As a last resort, Mr Jani Ivanuša, Group of the Slovenian National Party, has the floor. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all again! We have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Alternative Fund Managers by Emergency Procedure. In fact, we are once again proposing legislation within the European Union and implementing the European Union Directive into national law. According to the opinion, the law has no consequences, nor does it have consequences for the state budget and other public funds. We do not oppose the law in the Slovenian National Party, but we will not support it either. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments have not been tabled later, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. Agenda item — Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Added Value Tax Act, urgent procedure. This law was also submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. I give the floor to a representative of the government, State Secretary Natalia Kovac Jereb.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u44	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Allow me to briefly present the main solutions to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act. It was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure, as it concerns some harmonisation of the law with Union law, which is urgently necessary to be implemented as from 1 January 2019. The main purpose of the amendments to the law is to transpose two European directives, the actual Directive amending VAT, the Directive on the treatment of vouchers and the provisions of the Directive relating to certain VAT obligations applicable to the provision of services and distance sales of goods. With the transposition of the coupon handling directive, new harmonised Union rules are included in the law to ensure a uniform VAT treatment of all vouchers in all Member States. Differences in national arrangements have created a problem of double taxation and problems in the cross-border expansion of their activities rather than in favour of the single market. These rules, however, are intended to remove this situation. The new rules will clearly define different categories of vouchers in order to ensure proper VAT accounting. This will allow for a uniform treatment of transactions involving vouchers across the Union. The new rules will apply to coupons to be issued after 31 December 2018. The transposition of the Directive includes simplified VAT rules for small enterprises, telecommunications service providers, broadcasting services and electronic services where they are provided to non-taxable persons in other Member States. The applicable VAT accounting rules, in accordance with the rules of the Member State of consumption, represent a relatively high administrative and financial burden for undertakings providing those services to a small extent on the common market of the Union. Therefore, simplifications and fulfilment of VAT obligations for the supply of services to final consumers in other Member States have been introduced by amending the Directive. These will mean lower administrative burdens for operators and therefore lower costs, easier entry into the markets of other Member States and faster growth. The new rules will apply to services provided from 1 January 2019 onwards. The proposal also transposes part of the directive amending the VAT Directive on the period of application of the optional reverse tax mechanism for certain supplies susceptible to tax fraud. This measure will apply until 31 December 2018 following the current regulation and will be extended until 30 June 2022 for greenhouse gas emissions trading. With a view to administrative simplification, certain obligations of taxable persons are further lifted and certain statements and forms that have been shown in practice to be disproportionately burdensome for taxable persons and also for the tax authority are hereby withdrawn. The following series of amendments include only minor editorial adjustments to the value added tax law necessary for changes to the customs legislation of the Union and the substantive adjustments to the law necessary to ensure the systematic alignment of the provisions of the VAT with the Tax Procedure Act. Ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the foregoing, I propose that you support the amended law, which includes amendments adopted by the Committee on Finance and which are appropriately addressed to the date of the warnings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u45	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your presentation. I give the floor to Mr Robert Polnar, Chairman of the Committee on Finance, who is the working body of the mother. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 2nd urgent meeting on 8 November this year, the Finance Committee considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 12th meeting, on 12 October, that the draft law should be considered on an urgent basis. The Committee received the following material: the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance of 26 October and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 2 November. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, namely Article 5 of the Law and the amendment to the new or new Article 16a. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained the objectives and solutions of the bill and said that the proposal for a law meant in particular the transposition of the two directives of the European Union. It explained in more detail the individual solutions to the proposal of the law, such as the provision of vouchers, the provision of telecommunications services, broadcasting services and electronic services, the reduction of administrative barriers, the harmonisation of provisions on the level of interest rates and the extension of the reverse tax liability mechanism for the transfer of greenhouse gas emission allowances. In its written opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention to the issue of the transposition of a directive that could be more substantive, to the issue of legal gaps and warnings about the use of nomotechnics in the future. She also said that the amendments tabled appropriately addressed the warnings given. The discussion raised questions by the members of the Committee on specific provisions of the law, on double taxation, on cross-border cooperation, and on issues related to the uncertainty of the individual provisions of the bill. The Committee also drew attention to the opinion of the Council of the European Union on the use of vouchers and the question of the appropriate timing of the preparation of taxpayers for a new regime. The issue of administrative burden management was also raised. The clarifications on the uncertainty of the individual provisions of the law were provided by the Legal and Legislative Service, which stated that the uncertainties with the amendments tabled had been resolved. In the debate, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance provided additional clarifications and answers to questions raised by Members. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted amendments to the fifth articles and the amendment to the new Article 16a. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation is prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u47	Mr President, thank you very much for your presentation. This brings us to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Igor Peček, the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u48	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! We believe that the adoption of amendments and the supplementation of the Value Added Tax Act are necessary in the Marjan Šarca List, because this will prevent difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the country. The proposed amendments are also agreed by the Commission for the economy, trade and tourism and are supported as such. The purpose of tax policy is not only to fill the country's tax registers by introducing new taxes and increasing tax rates. It is important that the system is transparent, clear and effective, as this is in the interest of all citizens. The amendments follow the European Union directives on the treatment of vouchers and the simplification of VAT rules in cross-border business for companies providing telecommunications services, broadcasting services and electronic services. These include tax simplifications and bring benefits that will make the tax environment easier for all categories of taxpayers. The current system is weak and fragmented, as is reflected in the fact that Member States are losing a significant part of the revenue that could otherwise be spent in public good. The proposed reform seeks to establish a system that works for the Single Market and promotes cross-border trade. In this way, businesses operating across borders will be in a more equal position with companies operating only on the domestic market. The cost of meeting the obligations of these companies is now up by 11% compared to the cost of companies operating only on the domestic market. The result of this change is the reduction of so-called cross-border fraud. It is also estimated that these will decrease by around €40 billion at the European Union level. Another important area covered by the bill is the taxation of coupons intended for the purchase of goods and services. To date, issuers have repeatedly questioned when the VAT obligation arises. With a clear indication of the information on the delivery of the goods or services to which the voucher relates and the calculation of VAT, these doubts will no longer be settled. We therefore support the proposal of the law in the Marjan Šarc page. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jani Prednik has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u50	One nice hello to all of you again. Today, following an urgent procedure, we are considering a proposal for a new Law on Value Added Tax. This time, we need to calm down the fears that might arise. This is not about changing or raising tax rates. It is simply a law that will harmonise Slovenian legislation with European directives, with which Slovenia is already late. The more uniform tax rules between Member States, the less sense competition between countries and less tax avoidance. The content of the law, however, is linked to the correct identification and accounting of tax bases for value added tax mainly for companies operating in several markets. For these debtors have the opportunity to reduce their tax base or transfer their obligation where it is lower by means of creative accounting and transfer of obligations between countries. The European Directives prevent such behaviour, and we are also advocates of the principle that the tax obligation is paid where it is created. The areas governed by the law relate to the trading of investment vouchers, telecommunications and other electronic services, the reduction of certain administrative burdens on the debtors and the extension of the reverse tax mechanism in the transfer of greenhouse gas emission allowances. All these areas may not have a direct impact on people’s everyday lives, and their regulation provides a regulated and harmonised tax system that prevents abuse for the benefit of all. We will therefore support the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Value Added Tax Act in the Social Democrats Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Member of the Parliament, Mr Matej Udovč, on behalf of the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u52	The proposal for a new Law on Value Added Tax is another law which introduces into the Slovenian legal order provisions of the European Directives concerning the determination of VAT obligations, the provision of services and distance sales of goods. The discussion on the working body focused mainly on double taxation, cross-border cooperation and the use of coupons. We would also like to draw attention to other important solutions that the innovation brings. One of these is the reverse tax mechanism, which is a very effective and effective tool in the fight against VAT fraud. In view of the introduction of the reverse tax mechanism, fraud in certain sectors has decreased or disappeared significantly. Slovenia shall apply the reverse tax duty measure in the event of a transfer of greenhouse gas emission allowances. As you know, burning fossil fuels is the main source of greenhouse gas emissions. The concept of emission vouchers or trade in a certificate or authorisation that constitutes the right to release one tonne of carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gas of equal weight was created as a result of increased awareness of emission control. This concept is based on market mechanisms. In 2009, the price of emission vouchers rose significantly. At that time, there were huge financial distortions or cases of so - called tax whirls. It is estimated that only in a year and a half during the trading of emission vouchers, about EUR 5 billion has been lost, which should be at the expense of tax offices in individual countries. In this regard, it should also be noted that the system of emission vouchers has been in operation since 2005 and is divided into several predetermined trading periods. We are currently in the third trading period. Today, the price of coupons is almost 20 euros and analysts predict that the price will increase further. In order to avoid the problems we have experienced in the past period in this area, the rapid response mechanism in cases of fraud must be retained. Its validity shall be extended until 30 June 2022. The reverse tax liability mechanism can therefore be applied provisionally but not generally. In accordance with the applicable rules, it is limited to pre-defined sectoral lists. It may only be used by the Member State which specifically requested it and provided that it has been approved by the Council of the European Union. The Directive will therefore provide a short-term solution to prevent fraud in the most affected Member States until negotiations are concluded on a new and definitive VAT system in which goods and services delivered will be taxed in the country of destination. In October 2017, the European Commission published plans for the most extensive reform of EU VAT rules in the last 25 years. The reform is expected to improve and modernise the VAT system. The current VAT system originated in 1993 and was designed as a transitional system. It is fragmented and too complex for businesses operating across borders and allows for fraud. It is estimated that each year more than €150 billion will be lost. The common VAT system is important for the single European market, as it is also one of the EU's own resources. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we hope that we will be able to unify at Union level in establishing a VAT system that will work in favour of the Single Market. We want a system that will be simpler, more business-friendly and free from fraud. From the point of view of harmonisation of the law in the European Union, they assess that the law or directives in question deal very well with this issue. We are convinced that this is a major step towards an updated single European VAT system, so we will support the law in the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u53	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Luka Mesec has the floor on behalf of the Left Party. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u54	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The law before us, as the predecessors have said, is of a technical nature, transposes into our legislation the content of the two directives of the Council of the European Union and essentially touches on details concerning the taxation of vouchers. We're talking about gift vouchers for the provision of telecommunications services across the border and so on. It also includes the abolition of certain reporting forms or certain undertakings' obligations to the tax authority. These include, for example, the submission of a statement on the selection of real estate transactions, the notification of a choice for the taxation of investment gold and the like. Here in Levica, we have expressed the Committee's reservation that the abolition of these forms could mean a reduction in tax transparency, since the tax authority will no longer automatically obtain these reports, but only at the explicit request. In this respect, we are abstaining from the proposed amendments and will abstain from voting today.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jožef Horvat, you have the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! This time, the amendment to the Value Added Tax Act is mainly about the implementation of European secondary legislation in our legal order. Also in this bill, the Government has proposed an urgent procedure, as the provisions of the Directives must be transposed into our legal order by the end of this year. Given that the new solutions to this bill start to apply from the beginning of next year, that is, within a good month, in Nova Slovenija we expect the Ministry to provide all support to the enforcement of the law in case of possible problems or uncertainties. The first set of proposals governs the area of consideration of coupons. Our consumers probably all know the gift vouchers. So the issue of gift vouchers is also being addressed. In some Member States, the most common types of coupons are taxed at the time of issue, in other countries when they are cashed. The practical consequences of the different taxation in the issue of coupons in one Member State and its application in another Member State may, according to the Government, be double taxation or non-taxation. We therefore welcome the establishment of a clear definition of when a type of coupon is deemed to be cashed. In Nova Slovenija we also welcome the decommissioning of companies with small cross-border telecommunications services, broadcasting services or electronic services. The law introduces a threshold of EUR 10 000 for these companies, to which a service provider established or resident in Slovenia may apply the rules of taxation thefts in accordance with our law for the supply of services to other Member States. This allows companies to avoid any additional costs associated with compliance with VAT rules in other Member States of the European Union from a small volume of supply. We also welcome some additional burdens in the field of value added tax regulation in New Slovenia. In the case of real estate transactions, the taxable person exempt from VAT with the counterparty entitled to deduct all VAT may agree to charge VAT. In such a case, the law removes the administrative requirement for a compulsory declaration to the tax authority. The obligation to submit a forecast of anticipated transactions to the tax authority for the determination of a temporary deductible share shall also be abolished. In view of the fact that it is only the envisaged transactions of the taxable person, it is sufficient for the taxable person to determine on his own his own provisional deduction on the basis of the information on the underlying transactions. Since the proposal brings some useful burdens for the debtors, we will support the amendment of the Value Added Tax Act in Novi Slovenije.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Franz Kramar, you have the floor on behalf of the Group of Members of the Alenka Bratušek Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u58	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a new Law on Value Added Tax, which we must accept, hand to heart, because it is only about harmonising the Slovenian acquis with the European one. The directives we transpose into our legal order must be published early this year. Since the previous government has stepped down prematurely and the new government has only been established in September this year, we are of course in a hurry to transpose the directives. Even so, we are often in a situation where we are in a hurry, and that is why we are adopting a large quantity of legislation, which is not always as good as expected of us. But maybe there's something else we can say about this one time. And what does change mean? The first Directive is aimed at eliminating the non-coordination of taxation between the Member States of the European Community and at establishing a distinction between vouchers and innovative payment means in order to ensure the neutrality of taxation. The simplified, updated and harmonised VAT rules, which will apply to vouchers under the VAT law, only apply to vouchers which may be cashable for the supply of goods or services, but do not concern instruments which provide the holder with discount when purchasing goods or services, but do not grant him the right to receive such goods or services. The included coupon provisions do not change VAT, ticket handling, cinema tickets and museums, postage stamps and the like. The second Directive, however, simplifies the rules for the charging and payment of VAT and the issuance of invoices for the provision of telecommunications services, broadcasting services and electronic services where they provide services to non-taxable persons in other Member States. This will reduce administrative burdens on companies, especially micro-enterprises, to comply with VAT rules and thus reduce the related costs of cross-border business, thus contributing to the greater competitiveness of these companies in the common market and their faster growth. In addition, those not established within the European Community are registered for VAT in a Member State, for example for the purpose of carrying out occasional transactions subject to VAT, to enable the application of specific arrangements for taxable persons not established within the European Community. This simplifies the charging and payment of VAT for services performed by persons other than taxable persons in Slovenia, thereby increasing the efficiency of tax collection by the tax authority. The opinion of the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek, is that this amendment should be adopted in order to harmonise the legal order, and also because Slovenia did not oppose and support the amendments at the time of adoption of the said Directives. It is also a matter of changes that we can easily support in the Party's Group of Members, Alenka Bratušek. The lifting of administrative burdens is also something that Alenka Bratušek supports and advocates. However, today's debate on value added tax is also to be used to remind the government of the unrealised decision of the previous Council of State, which ordered the Ministry to reduce the VAT on sanitary devices such as ladies' inserts and tampons, baby diapers and diapers and similar products in the framework of the rules on the implementation of the Value Added Tax Act. This is a product that primarily represents a fixed monthly cost to women, and at the same time it is not a luxury, but an essential need. At that time, it was said that more equitable taxation would be pursued and women's equality associated with it. In our view, it is equally important to draw attention to the aspect of potential poverty, which women are slightly more exposed to, and the purchase of hygiene products often represents a relatively large, for some also a very high cost. As has already been said, some European countries have already settled this in their legislation, and we, I hope, will continue to do so as soon as possible. I also repeat that we are not talking about luxury goods, but about everyday needs, which are essential for normal life, and as such must also be treated in a tax way. We will support the novelty of the Party of Alenka Bratušek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Robert Polnar on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Mr. Ambassador, you're often at the microphone today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm glad you noticed that. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I think it was really hard for him to notice me, but I'm six feet tall, but now we're going to take it seriously. It is good that Directives of the European Commission are transposed into the national legal order as part of the time frame planned for their adoption. The fundamental purpose of the proposed legislative changes in the amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act is to create a positive impact on various economic activities. The purpose of the coupon arrangement is to include in the proposal the definition of vouchers, types of vouchers and, in this regard, the determination of the obligation to charge value added tax and tax bases. In the provision of telecommunications services, broadcasting services and electronic services, it is a matter of decommissioning companies with a small range of cross-border services of this kind. The amendments and additions to the law also aim to eliminate administrative burdens in three areas of tax activity, where the aim of simplifying procedures for users is to be pursued. The Act also defines the harmonisation of the provisions between the Value Added Tax Act and the Tax Procedure Act with a view to simplifying the calculation of interest. These measures will primarily reduce the cost of compliance with value added tax obligations for small enterprises. It is expected that their competitive conditions in the common market for the services under consideration will also improve and create conditions for faster growth of their cross-border operations. For these reasons, we will support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jani Ivanuša on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u62	Thank you very much, again. Have a nice hello to you all. We have before us a law on amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act. The proposed law transposes into our national legal order two directives relating to certain obligations relating to value added tax applicable to the provision of services and distance sales of goods. Both Directives must be transposed into national law by 31 at the latest in accordance with the provisions of the Directives. 12. 2018 to then apply 1. 1. 2019. It is also proposed by law up to 30. 6. 2022 prolongs the validity of the reverse tax mechanism for the transfer of greenhouse gas emission allowances. Under the applicable law, the sectoral reverse tax mechanism for the transfer of greenhouse gas emission allowances expires 31. 12. 2018, as provided for in the Directive. Otherwise, directives may have difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the country. In view of the timely transposition of those Directives into the national legal order, the European Commission will initiate proceedings against Slovenia, impose a fine on the infringement procedure between the EU and Slovenia, as well as timely informing the taxpayers of the new procedure relating to VAT accounting. The main purpose of the VAT amendments is to transpose into the Slovenian legal order the provisions of the EU Council Directive on the treatment of coupons. For the second Directive, concerning certain value added tax obligations applicable to the provision of services and distance sales of goods. This is about telecommunications services, electronic services. The first Directive aims to modernise the simplification and harmonisation of VAT rules applicable to vouchers. The second Council Directive aims to simplify VAT rules for small enterprises in cross-border supply of goods and distance services, reducing administrative burdens and costs for these small enterprises. The competitive conditions of companies in the markets of other Member States are improving, distance sales and growth of small businesses are accelerating. Simplifications for small businesses will be established in two steps. The first simplifies the rules for telecommunications service providers, broadcasting services and electronic services when providing services to non-taxable persons in other Member States. These rules must be applied in the Member States by 1 January 2019. The second step of 1 January 2021 will introduce the principle of taxation of supplies to the final consumer in the Member State of consumption. The obligations of providers of online platforms that provide for the supply of goods will also be determined. The application of the mini VEM system to cross-border supplies of goods and services to final consumers in the community will be extended to imports of low-value consignments up to EUR 150 to final consumers in the community. The proposal for a law proposes major solutions, namely the regulation of vouchers, the provision of telecommunications services, broadcasting services and electronic services, and the elimination of certain administrative barriers. We do not oppose the law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As the last on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, he has the word mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President! Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In this legislative process, we re transpose the Directive of the European Union. The first value added tax directive was adopted in 1993 and a temporary system was applied at that time. After 25 years, we still have a temporary system. It's probably already 100th or 200th directive, which we're passing on quite uncritically. Usually governments, whatever it is, translate it, copy it, I don't know if they always get it. I'm sorry I'm talking to strangers. This is what occurs in such implementations of the EU Directive in that they are not transparent, that we do not know what they actually determine for the economy, for taxpayers, the considerable difficulty of being complicated. And both the European Union and the others have a solution: a new directive to simplify the system, make it better, if we talk about taxes, that it will be less complex and that it will be fairer and that there will be less tax evasion. So we're actually on another round on the merry-go-round, and I'm not going to be here, I'm going to say, insult or hurt Tizian Terzani, who wrote this book and it doesn't apply to taxes, let's say we're still on another round of the tax merry-go-round. This tax wheel is still happening today. One directive is simply copied. I don't know how many Slovenian representatives have actually participated in this, I think that there have been fewer, they haven't enforced or enforced – there was nothing to talk about today – Slovenian interests, Slovenian specialities in this, and so on, I apologize, we're copying some solutions that we don't know how they're going to be implemented in the economy. Nor is it because, even on the basis of a discussion on the parent body, no testing of such solutions has been carried out on the economy. On the other hand, the law also enforces what has not been established today, the late interest rate, the additional late interest rate for which the question is whether this amount is 3% right or not. In fact, regardless of whether we are talking about whether most of you are talking about how things are going to improve, we have in the Slovenian Democratic Party to such solutions, flat-rate solutions to reservations, because this is simply not evidenceable. As the value added tax system improves, it must be said that it is still a temporary system after 25 years. Those who want that final system, which is likely never to be implemented or very difficult in the European Union, this final system means that we will have one or two tax rates in the European Union, all countries alike, and that the revenue from taxes will be poured into one basket and into one budget. If this is what you want, then you must say that you support this final system, as has been said today. Personally and in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have considerable reservations about this, especially because it is not known how this money will then be distributed from the common treasury. Given that this law certainly improves the administrative functioning of businesses in certain areas, we will not oppose this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u65	Thank you, Member, for presenting your position. With this, ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. We will decide on the bill in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law on the return of monetary funds to the Republic of Slovenia from individual tax havens. The draft law was submitted to the National Council for consideration. With regard to this bill, the Committee on Finance proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee to Mr Robert Polnar for further explanation of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u66	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! At its 2nd regular meeting on 6 November this year, the Committee on Finance considered the draft law on the return of money to the Republic of Slovenia from individual tax havens submitted to the National Council for consideration. Representatives and representatives of the proposed law, the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 13 September this year, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical legislative aspects. In addition to the general comments, the Service commented on the individual articles, namely Article 8 of the bill. The Committee was also provided with the following material: Mr Lukač's comments and comments on the proposal for a law of 15 December 2017 and 25 January 2018; the opinion of the European Central Bank of 14 February 2018 and the Opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 15 February 2018. In the introduction, the representative of the bill's proposer explained the purpose and purpose of the proposed law. He also explained the individual solutions to the proposal and presented an assessment by a non-governmental organisation fighting against tax havens. The Republic of Slovenia is estimated to be between €35 billion and €55 billion in tax havens, which means an annual loss of around €500 to €700 million. He considered that the proposal for a law was a guide for further work in this area. In addition, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that the service had given a written opinion highlighting the general comments which relate mainly to the non-compliance of the bill with the individual articles of the Constitution and the retroactivity of individual solutions. It also drew attention to the comments made on the individual article. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained in detail the reasons why the Government does not support the bill and considers that it is not suitable for further consideration. In addition, she mentioned that the Government supports the written position of the former government and highlighted in particular the issue of legally permissible payments and the definition of tax havens. I have further expressed, as chairman of the Committee, my substantive concerns regarding the proposal for a law and, in particular, the facts raised by both the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government, and I have proposed to the Committee that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it should discuss and decide on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. By 12 votes in favour and no votes against, the Committee adopted the following decision: The proposal for a law on the return of money to the Republic of Slovenia from individual tax havens is not suitable for further consideration. In the course of the debate on the decision taken on the inadequacy of the bill, a member of the committee, Mr Luka Mesec, proposed two decisions, one of which was adopted. In a short discussion, the members of the committee welcomed the purpose of the bill, but mentioned that they could not support the drafting of the bill with the well-known comments of the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service. Following a discussion on the two proposed decisions of Commissioner Luke Mesca, the following decision was adopted: The Finance Committee proposes that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia take up policies at European Union level that seek to limit hidden financial flows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I give the floor to Mr Oscar Komac, the representative of the Council of State, as a proposal for a bill, to present my position on the proposal of the working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This bill, which is on the table today, as has been said, I would not like to repeat some of the facts and thus take up time with you, but I would particularly like to point out perhaps not some background why this law has actually occurred and why action is urgently needed here. The problem of tax oasis is dragged about 30.40 years ago in a very large sense. Until then, tax havens have been more a haven of so-called dirty money, which originates mainly from criminal acts, drug trafficking, arms trafficking and similar matters. These years ago they actually coincide with some procedure, some process of neo-liberalisation in the world, when, in fact, with some kind of policy called "trickle-down", if I say so, or the release, the reduction of taxes on the rich, tried to achieve that something would happen to the lower and middle layers. This did not happen, of course, because when you reduce taxes, on the other hand, you also have to provide an additional enough demand for these surpluses to be realized. Since these surpluses had no place to go on the market, they were actually looking for some of their tax havens in the so-called tax havens. It's been a big problem ever since. Actually, I think it's a global problem. At the level of the European Union, what has not been said is considered to be almost yes at the level of the annual budget of the European Union, which is 150, 160 billion, I think that the perspective is around a few thousand billion over the next seven years. So it's a big problem. And I'd like not to repeat some things so that we can actually deal with this problem together here. This problem has also been caused by the falling wages for productivity growth in the world. Especially in the United States of America. But the same has happened in Europe. As wages followed the growth of productivity quite faithfully after World War II, the opening of scissors took place there from the 70 ’ s onward. Productivity has grown rapidly, we do not have time to explain it in depth, and wages have far been lagging behind. This difference in these scissors largely, as I said, has moved capital into these tax havens due to problems on the aggregate demand side. There are other aspects of tax havens. One of the important aspects is that straw companies are essentially located there, through which transfer prices reduce the tax base in each country. Thus, goods are sold in a tax oasis at a price that covers only costs or not, this is not important for those entrepreneurs who do so, and then the profit to be sold through these straw companies, as we call them, is actually realised in the tax havens where the lowest is taxed. Real estate traffic also takes place through these tax havens and so on. In fact, the proposal itself is very simple. I believe that there are some concerns that may also be weighty, but I think that we all have to deal with this problem together and try to solve it in due course. In particular, it is in the interest of the countries which are actually losing taxes and contributions from this title. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u69	I thank the representative of the State Council. In order to present the Government's position on the proposal of the home working body, I give the floor to the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u70	Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished President, distinguished representative of the Council of State! The Government of the Republic agrees with the position adopted by the previous government in the mandate and the importance of combating the adverse consequences associated with tax havens and of a global character. The Government also agrees with the proposaler’s statement that the conduct set out in the draft law in general may be detrimental to the state budget and thus place the burden on society or citizens. Despite the purpose pursued by the proposal for a law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. One of the reasons behind this position is that the proposal for a law does not provide a definition of tax oasis and that, according to the law, the addressees of recovery or taxation are also those not or would not have obtained any tax advantage, or those whose remittance does not or would not constitute unlawful tax avoidance or unlawful treatment, since even such cases fall under the proposal of the law when persons issue funds for the payment of services, such as for the payment of a hotel or for the purchase of goods, which is not incompatible with any legal order. Nor does the law provide for the relationship between the provisions in force already governing the tax treatment of transfers of income or more favourable jurisdiction, i.e. the measures in force that prevent the diversion of untaxed profits from the Republic of Slovenia by which tax avoidance is prevented. It should be stressed that the Government actively supports or participates in the preparation of measures at international level, both in the OECD and in the European Union. The fight against the negative effects associated with tax havens is of a global character. The individual country is very weak at individual level in the fight against tax fraud and non-compliance with tax obligations, and cooperation between countries, in particular in the form of an international exchange of relevant information, is crucial, with an emphasis on automatic exchange. The proposal for an idea-based law follows a positive purpose, but is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. For the Group of Social Democrats, Jani Prednik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u72	Also a nice greeting to the representative of the State Council! In the previous term, the draft law we are considering has been discussed and the Council of State has proposed to the Assembly for adoption. The law builds on the fact that in recent decades, capital has drained from Slovenia through the use of remittances in a more tax-friendly environment, usually referred to as tax havens. The bill proposes a solution to repay the lost money and to ensure that the entities that referred money to the tax havens in the past will also return it. The solution that is intended to ensure this is a special benefit specific to 22 % of such transactions. However, for transfers already made in the past, the draft law requires 20% of their total value to be transferred to the state budget. At first glance, it is a quick, simple and effective solution. Anyone in the future will at any time directing money into the tax haven to pay the State an allowance is the same for all those who have done so in the past. The state should transfer a fifth of the sum of all its past transfers to tax havens, otherwise they risk a fine of 80% of the total of all past transfers to tax havens. It sounds simple and promising, unless, of course, we are not paying attention to the details, to our constitutional arrangements, and to recent events that can help us understand why we need to deal with this problem differently. Firstly, the law does speak of tax-friendly environments, but it does not bring about a uniform definition of these environments. Although we use the term tax oasis in the conversational language, the term must have a clear meaning in the legal language. Any country or environment with a lower tax than Slovenia is not yet tax oasis. Without a clear definition of a tax-friendly environment, such a law cannot be brought to life. Secondly, the law proposes benefits on all remittances in the environment identified as oasis. In doing so, it shall not take into account the purpose or height of the transfer, the type of transaction or other characteristics by which it could distinguish honest from less fair transactions. It is not to be taken into account whether the remittance may have involved the reimbursement of services, the purchase of goods or the normal operation between the two undertakings performing their business. The tourist agency which would organise a trip to such a country should pay such a premium. The same would apply to an airline or a shipping company that would buy fuel in such a country. A Slovenian company that would buy raw material or semi-products in such a country would also have additional costs and reach. This bill does not therefore haunt what we are all concerned about, and this is the concealment of profits and their transfer into a more tax-friendly environment. But it's a huge obstacle to anyone who would do business with such a country. For, at first glance, noble goals are hidden by all-gliharism and justice, which in no way help to achieve the desired goal. Thirdly, we need to build on the proposal not only because of its generalisation but also because of its unwarranted retroactivity. Even though it is argued that substantial financial resources have been drained from Slovenia's independence, the solution cannot be that we impose a high arbitral tax on all those who have done business lawfully or illegally with such countries 25 years ago. Let us take a lesson from the last decision of the Constitutional Court, which, in the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin, has abolished some of its provisions, with the same reasons why we have concerns today as the Social Democrats. Retroactivity of the law is allowed only exceptionally, with the so-called strict proportionality test to cease, which simply assumes that we must not cause new injustices by correcting them. This law does not guarantee that its solutions, which introduce offences committed more than 25 years ago, would in no way have passed the test before the Constitutional Court or any other court. Your Honor! We all want to fight capital out of the country as much as possible, prevent tax evasion and evasion and ensure that at least part of the capital mentioned is returned home. However, this cannot be achieved only through prohibitions, high penalties and general demonisation of foreign operations, which can be achieved primarily at European level through a common fight against abuse and harmonisation of legislation, so that European countries do not compete unintentionally with one another in lowering taxes, but together create a stable and transparent tax environment. As a result of all of this, we will support the conclusion that the proposal for a law before us is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, on her behalf Mrs Mateja Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u74	In the SMC Group, we support the objectives for which the Council of State advocates in its proposal for a law. Unfortunately, however, the solutions proposed do not comply with our constitutional arrangements, tax fairness and efficiency. In the State Council, there was a first consultation on this subject four years ago. Experts in this area presented data on cash flows and remittances to tax havens. On this basis, the Council of State has drawn up a proposal for a law that regulated this issue in the 12 articles. Also in the National Assembly, several discussions were held in the previous mandate on the issue of financial outflows to tax havens. The legislation on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing was adopted. A register of actual owners has been introduced to ensure the transparency of the ownership structures of business entities and to prevent the abuse of business money laundering entities. The SMC Group reminds us that Slovenia has an active role to play in the fight against tax evasion and fraud. Slovenia is one of the 52 signatory countries to the agreement, which advocated the adoption of a new international standard for automatic exchange of information for tax purposes. It has already transposed legal acts of the European Union and of the Council of Europe, such as the Council of Europe Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters and the Protocol amending the Convention. It has also concluded a number of international treaties to avoid double taxation of income and property. It regularly joins in actions and takes a number of measures taken at the level of international associations. In Slovenia we have been using effective implementation mechanisms within national tax legislation for many years. On the basis of these mechanisms, Furs has carried out several projects to control the diversion of assets into tax havens, with some ten million additional tax liabilities being imposed. Reference should also be made to the possibility of voluntary disclosure of unfulfilled tax obligations in order to enable taxpayers to report past tax irregularities voluntarily and thus avoid sanctions. An Interdepartmental Working Group was established to prepare measures to protect more effectively the economic and financial interests of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to the transfer or concealment of financial assets into tax havens. We must be aware that the process of combating the abuse and avoidance of taxation is global and that individual countries with unilateral action are only having difficulties, especially in the case of large corporations and established schemes. The proposal for a law of the State Council points to a lack of knowledge of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, EU constitutional law, applicable national tax legislation, the conduct and efforts of governments and Furs, international legal acts of the Council of Europe and others, and of the measures of the OECD. Nor does the bill provide for procedures with money that were already taxed in Slovenia prior to the transfer. The same for the money that returned to Slovenia as dividends and was then retaxed in Slovenia. In fact, this means that all these funds were taxed in the same way as if they were in Slovenia all the time. Applicants do not take into account the measures in force to prevent the tax evasion of untaxed profits from Slovenia in the Law on the Taxation of Legal Persons. Clearly, this is a matter of ignorance or misunderstanding. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will endeavour to actively cooperate in the preparation of measures at international level, at the OECD and the EU, addressing this issue. A few billion euros are lost each year due to tax evasion. This is money that could be spent on public services, such as schools and hospitals, or on creating new jobs and economic growth. We estimate that the proposal is unprofessional because it does not take into account the basic tax principles and national tax legislation. The proposal is also contrary to as many as 6 articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and EU constitutional law, so we will not support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In recent years, there has also been a broader debate on tax policy at the expense of many scandals, which is intended to prevent capital leakage in tax havens. The existing policy is based on the principles of trade from the 19th century and is certainly not able to regulate global financial flows and even fewer of their instruments. In this context, we look forward to the engagement of the State Council, which strives to tighten its attitude towards policies that allow funds to flow from Slovenia to tax havens. Unfortunately, the proposal is inadequate, as instead of a comprehensive approach to tax legislation, it offers an ad hoc solution, and it is retrospective. Instead, we proposed two decisions on the parental committee, namely the Committee on Finance, in Levica. At the first, we referred to the agreement and called on the Government to implement the commitments under the agreement in an integrated manner and to regulate tax policy in Slovenia. The second proposal was for Slovenia in the European institutions to clearly adopt positions calling for transparent financial flows, public registers and information exchange with a view to preventing money laundering on tax havens and bottom-up at tax rates. Unfortunately, only point 1 of the decision was adopted. We advocate not only that taxes are paid by those who sell their work on the labour market, but also by those who create excess value at the expense of this work. We can start by creating a transparent and public register of companies operating in Slovenia and continue with zero tolerance to redirect profits to tax havens at European level, by supporting public reporting between countries, by advocating the end of erosion of the tax base and the redirection of profits, and by sanctioning those who operate untransparently through offshore accounts. In Levika, we expect the Government to insist on the commitments it has entered into in the coalition agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Dear saint of the state, what a lovely greeting! We have before us a law whose general objective in New Slovenia is, of course, supported. This is the fight against the illegal flow of money into the so-called tax havens. In 2014 American economist and researcher of the global tax avoidance industry James S. Henry estimated here that citizens of Slovenia had transferred between €50 billion and €75 billion abroad. The numbers are huge. Despite agreeing with the objectives of the bill, however, we have concerns in New Slovenia about how it faces this issue. It is extremely important that the law dealing with such complex and important issues stands both in terms of issues of a nominal nature and issues of compliance with the Constitution. We would not like to see that proceedings in the courts later fall due to the unconstitutionality of the law governing this area. We regret in New Slovenia that we see here today that some express the satisfaction that the law does not comply with the Constitution because it works retroactively. Yeah, how can I if I'm not retroactive? But the National Assembly, as the legislative branch of power, is the one who can also justify this retroactivity by justifying public interest. But this will not and will not be done in the left-hand governments of the state council. We both know why. The draft law provides that a certain rate of criminal tax shall be applied to money transferred from bank accounts in Slovenia directly or indirectly to accounts in individual tax havens. For remittances made between 25 June 1991 and the entry into force of the law, this rate shall be 20%. For remittances made from the application of the bill, this rate shall be 22 %. In the event of a breach of the obligation to pay the corresponding sum, the taxpayer shall be ordered by the tax authority to pay 80 % of the funds committed. Clearly, this is a law that produces retroactive effects. In so doing, the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out that the law imposes a compulsory public duty with retroactive effect and that the proposal for a law is at work, as far as it relates to transactions in tax havens prior to its entry into force, in breach of Article 155 of the Constitution and that it is an unacceptable retroactivity. It's just a legal profession. In this regard, the Legislative and Legal Service also pointed out that, for the same reasons, Article 12 of the Law on the Extra Tax on Income from Members of Management and Supervisory Authorities was repealed during the financial and economic crisis in the case of Kramar, which imposed the income tax paid prior to its entry into force. In addition, the law provides for a set of countries which are considered to be tax havens. Among them are EU Member States, namely Cyprus, Denmark, the Netherlands and Portugal. In doing so, the European Central Bank drew attention to the issue of the free movement of capital within the EU, which could be breached by the imposition of a criminal transaction tax in that country. Although we support the general objective of the bill in the New Slovenia Group, we cannot support it because of non-conformity with the constitution and the risk of free movement of capital within the EU. Nevertheless, we call on the Government, which has the highest responsibility here to come up with a proposal for legal solutions that will address the issue of money leakage in tax havens in an appropriate and constitutionally consistent manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The views of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! In a globalised world, low tax rates are used as an instrument for attracting capital. The transition countries, often prone to exaggeration, compete with each other, who will be a low-tax champion. Tax oasis advocates claim that tax oasis have at least two benefits. The first good part is that they represent healthy tax competition to European tax systems, which have shown a strong focus on simply disposing their citizens with high taxes. On the other hand, the second side is that tax havens allow faster movement of capital, which is of particular benefit to the underdeveloped and the capital of a poorer country. There is also an explanation that people are fleeing to tax havens for freedom. Freedoms for their money that they can reinvest wherever they want, all over the world without any extra burden. And his own freedom or protection of personal integrity, his privacy, which is a legitimate human need, which is also not illegal. How much money the largest corporations and rich people have accumulated into tax havens is impossible to determine. There are various estimates that stretch between $21,000 and $32,000 just to avoid paying taxes. Addressing the greed and power of the giant multinational corporations and the influence of the global billionaire class is not only morally correct, it is also a strategic and geopolitical imperative. Organised and coordinated state action to address tax abuses would create new tax revenues that could create thousands of new businesses, make a more decisive shift towards environmentally sustainable agriculture or transform our energy systems more quickly, to use renewable energy sources. It is a struggle with strong stakeholders who want everything more and more for themselves. Developing tax systems have identified this type of tax optimisations and rationalise them to a reasonable degree through their taxation system. Taxation in developed tax systems is thus never converted into robbery. The purpose of the bill’s proponents — the State Council — is good and right to know it. The problem is that the proposal is contrary to the ten articles of the Constitution and it is appropriate to point out retroactivity as a definition of an important retroactive effect of justifying public interest. Second, legally permissible remittances which do not constitute avoidance of tax. And third, the definition of countries that are defined as tax havens in the light of the principle of free movement of capital. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will support the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration due to these formal inadequacies. However, we call on the Government to draw up a law that will be in line with European guidelines, allowing for the repatriation of payments from tax havens and the realization of additional tax revenue in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u82	Have a nice hello again. Greetings to the Vice-President, ladies from the Ministry of Finance and, of course, to the proposer or to the state councillor. In the Slovenian National Party, we ask who wants to destroy this beautiful Slovenia. Is it anyone's plan to destroy everything that's yet to be destroyed? We have heard that almost 20 billion euros have disappeared in the last ten years. Nobody knows where. Well, that's what they say. But we do know that since 1991, 70 billion euros have been missing from American data. Where? No one knows. Nobody wants to know. And how many will disappear in the coming years? The fact is, the money's gone and the money's gone. Can I answer your question where? Tax havens through tax fraud and tax avoidance. All at the expense of Slovenian taxpayers. Money is disappearing and a hole is being created, and it is mucking in with the hiring of expensive loans on the international market. This burden is passed on to our society or to Slovenian citizens and citizens who are more financially burdened and impoverished from year to year. In this way, the richest and those in the trough are rich. When gentlemen bring money into tax havens precisely because they avoid paying taxes and hiding property or because it is most likely that money comes from crimes, it is absurd to expect that money to return to Slovenia. Money is abroad solely for the purpose of concealing its ownership and origin. There has been so much stealing that generations of descendants after them, and in this way or otherwise, will live away from the abilities of their ancestors. You know, there are such situations in serious countries, but the property that the descendants benefit from has been burdened with the efforts of the ancestors. In our country, however, the only effort is the theft and who is more capable of concealing property to the state authorities. Legally it can be legal business, that is what gentlemen have already assured themselves after so many years in power, but it is profitable for the rich to be exclusively financial and for us to have political elites. In Iceland, we all know how the nation dealt with the political elite, but we have absolutely nothing. The probability of our authorities being successful in asset recovery is extremely low. In Parliament we adopt laws which are the tools of the executive branch of power in its functioning. Thus, we need to help our bodies to get into the hands of scissors and canvas and, with the help of their expertise, they can finally do something for Slovenia. And one more thing. So sang the European Union, it is funny that it has not yet adopted a binding list of countries with tax oasis status, with all the personnel it can overcome. What for? Because they can't because of their financial interests. The bill is good and simple, as we have heard, and we would support it in the Slovenian National Party, because it means the first step towards helping our country. After all, this is also our mission, why we were elected. Although the law has been suspended in some way, it would be strongly supported in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Suzanne Leup Šimenka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Almost a year has passed since the State Council tabled the proposal for a law on the return of money to the Republic of Slovenia from individual tax havens. The draft law provides for the return of money transferred from bank accounts in Slovenia to accounts in countries with tax havens. The debtors are obliged to return 20% of the funds actually earmarked from 25 to Slovenia's budget. 6. 1991 until the law is in force. However, following the entry into force of the law, the debtors are obliged to repay 22 % of the funds notified. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe in the positive purpose of the proposed law, but we cannot ignore the fact that the proposal for a law with retroactivity means non-compliance with the Constitution. We also cannot agree with the proposal at the point to impose 20% of the payment for transactions made in the tax haven on everyone, whether it was a legal allowance that does not constitute avoidance of the tax or not. We do not support the bill because of the proposal put forward by the Slovenian Democratic Party, but we will abstain from voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Marjan Šarc Group, we rejected the proposal for a law on the home labour body, as many concerns were raised on it by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly as well as by the Government. Maybe it doesn't make sense in this place to repeat all the reservations that have been weighty and there are a lot of them. While we have heard in the debate that our country's international analysis ranks among those where the risk of money laundering is among the lowest, which is good. A good year ago, a register of real owners was introduced to ensure transparency. After all, we are a country that has not decided on fiduciary accounts, because we want to know who the real owners of companies are. While the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, it should be pointed out, however, that in the field of tax oasis transactions, the relevant authorities must pay particular attention. Of course, the same is true of us who adopt legislation. We must not, for example, allow any amendment to the law governing the operation of a bad bank to allow those who have caused the collapse of businesses to buy undervalued claims through companies from tax havens. But we are aware that this is a problem of global dimensions. The disclosure of Panamanian documents showed how deep the system of tax havens and the world of wealthy individuals and corporations of giants such as Apple, Nike, Uber and other global companies are intertwined. Nothing is certain, apart from death and taxes, Benjamin Franklin wrote long ago, but he may have been wrong about another in the case of the electorate. Of course, something also depends on whether we want and know as humanity to break up with old harmful practices. Although the basic idea pursued by the drafter of the law is good, the proposal of the law is not suitable for further consideration due to many concerns and illogical solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u87	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is a second defence proposal for a law supplementing the driver law under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Council for consideration. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Edward Paulic, to complement the explanation of the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u88	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space shall be as a parent working body at its 4th session. 11. 2018 examined the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Drivers Act submitted to the National Council for its consideration. The state's councilman, Mag. Igor Velov provided an additional explanation on behalf of the applicant. He stressed that the draft law complements the provision of Article 53 of the Drivers Act, which regulates the participation of offenders in rehabilitation programmes. The proposed provision complements the programme of educational workshops by imposing an additional eight-hour assistance to the perpetrator in an organisation working in the field of transport safety, education and education or working with victims of traffic accidents and complements the programme of psychosocial workshops with compulsory 16-hour assistance in such organisations. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Nina Mauhler, pointed out that the bill does not explain who will direct the perpetrators to the organisation and what the perpetrator should do in this organisation. Nor does the bill provide for an increase in the scope of the third workshop, which is the exercise of safe driving. Contrary to the proposal, the Government estimates that the proposal will have financial implications both for participants in both workshops and for implementing organisations, since participation in the proposal is prescribed as mandatory. In particular, it stressed that the Government is committed to putting forward a proposal to upgrade the existing measure after evaluating the effects of the implementation of existing workshops. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service also pointed out that neither in the proposed text nor in the explanatory memorandum is it explained how participation in the functioning of the organisation should be carried out. It also raises questions about the competence and conditions for the implementation of participation in such organisations. In the debate, all the discussers expressed an understanding of the intention that the proposal seeks to achieve by complementing it, as alcoholisation in transport is a major problem and one of the most common causes of traffic accidents. The Coalition Members drew attention to the substantive shortcomings in the draft law, which were also perceived in their opinion by the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service. In their view, the proposal that will upgrade the measures so far needs to be prepared after evaluation of the effects of the implementation of existing workshops. As a result, they proposed to the Committee that it be decided that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. In the SDS Group, it has been pointed out that the solutions presented in the draft law are not to be disputed in this way, since, on behalf of the proposer, there is a state councillor who knows this issue well from his field of work. They also pointed out that it is not clear from the change of government why the Government does not specifically support the proposal of the law. With regard to the State Secretary's statement that the Government will table the amendment of the law on its own, they lack the time limit within which it will do so. The Secretary of State further explained that the Government supports and welcomes the purpose that the applicant wishes to achieve, but emphasises that the proposed solutions need to be finalized and complemented to a certain extent and cannot therefore be supported in such a form. Amendments to the law to be drawn up by the Government should, however, go in the direction of finding solutions that the proposer also wants to reach. Here I would like to thank all the members of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space for the right discussions and for the high culture of dialogue. After the discussion was concluded, the 11-vote committee adopted a decision against the proposal for a law supplementing the Drivers Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The representative of the Council of State, as the proposer, is unexpectedly and urgently detained and apologizes, following the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. For the modern site Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u90	Nicely greeted! We're approaching holiday time. The merry December is practically at the door. It is on all the participants in traffic to make sure that the happy December will also be a safe December. I am talking, of course, about alcoholic road users who cause a lot of traffic accidents. In 2017, more than a thousand 500 traffic accidents were recorded caused by alcoholised participants. Last year 32 people died as a result of such accidents, 140 people were severely injured, and 630 people were easier. In total, 802 people were involved in a car accident because of someone who was under the influence of alcohol. The data is alarming. The current Drivers Act, following the example of Germany, Switzerland and Austria, from October 2011, provides for the participation of a driver who has been given a driver’s licence to terminate in an appropriate rehabilitation programme where he has been sentenced to driving under the influence of alcohol, illicit drugs, psychoactive drugs or other psychoactive substances. These rehabilitation programmes are divided into educational workshops, psychosocial workshops and addiction treatment programmes. The current regulation also specifies the length of hours of individual workshops. The main purpose of the novel under consideration is to increase road safety by extending the rehabilitation programmes for drivers, by extending the educational workshops programme for an additional 8 hours and extending the psychosocial workshop programme for an additional 16 hours. While we welcome and agree that the safety of road users is extremely important and the impact of alcohol on road users, not only on motor vehicles, but also on bikers and pedestrians. In its opinion on the draft law, the Government has put forward a number of dilemmas, in particular the question of the meaning of extending the scope of educational and psychosocial workshops, bearing in mind that the evaluation of the current implementation of workshops has not yet been prepared by the Transport Safety Agency. Although the Director of the Agency for Transport Safety was also present on the committee responsible at the time of the consideration of the draft law, he was unfortunately unable to obtain information on the basis of which they could justify the appropriateness of the dissemination of those rehabilitation programmes. In addition, the Government points out that only two rehabilitation programmes are being extended through the proposal, not as a safe ride as the rehabilitation programme itself. We can provide greater security by encouraging participants to behave more responsibly, to create awareness of the importance of traffic safety and to respect the rules. All stakeholders, including those planning transport policy, must contribute to this. In the light of this, we are pleased that the representative of the Government, at the time of the Committee's consideration of the amendment, has specifically stressed that the Government undertakes to prepare and submit a proposal to upgrade or amend the existing measure after evaluation of the effects of the implementation of the workshops in question by the Agency. I reiterate that in the SMC Group we welcome the proposal's intention, but we cannot support the bill for the reasons already mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The positions of the Left Group will be presented by Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u92	Your Honor! Mr Igor Velov, fighting to raise social assistance for the poorest, this time in the role of a state councillor and a representative of the interests of local communities, is proposing a law supplementing the Drivers Act that we are considering. Mr Velov's proposal increases the scope of rehabilitation programmes to be attended by persons who have been given leave of driving licence and who have been sentenced to driving under the influence of alcohol, drugs and similar cases. The law already prescribes the participation of these persons in educational workshops with content on road safety, psychosocial workshops or addiction treatment programmes. The proposal for a proposed law adds to the participation of sanctioned drivers in the operation of the organisation in the field of transport safety. Organisations would be shown — those implementing the programmes — on the basis of a public call from the Transport Safety Agency, headed by Mr Velov. The problem arises when we ask ourselves why these changes are necessary. Are the current rehabilitation programmes not appropriate? Are there too many returnees among the persons deprived of their driving licence? Is the current state of road safety really such that it calls for an increase in repressive measures? The law proposed by Mr Velov unfortunately does not explain any of the above and does not give any reason to increase the scope of the rehabilitation programmes. The solutions proposed by the proposaler, Mr Velov, are even more unusual when we read the latest annual report on the implementation of the Resolution on the National Road Safety Programme, in which we can read that the realization of the vision of no road traffic fatalities should be ensured through the following measures: the harmonisation and implementation of road safety technology, the development of an integrated strategy for action in relation to traffic injuries, the special attention given to vulnerable users – pedestrians, cyclists – and the focus on training and education of users. But not in terms of changing rehabilitation programmes, but in terms of promoting the use of safety equipment, protective clothing and preventing unauthorized vehicle changes. In short, none of what is the subject of the proposed amendments to the law. And finally, the most interesting part. The law has no budgetary implications. We all find that, and of course it's unusual, because rehabilitation programs just cost something. And answer: organisations with transport safety assistance will do so voluntarily. That's the proposal. This is, for the first time, amazing, because working with people in the rehabilitation programme requires a highly qualified staff, which is not much, and even fewer of those who would carry out these workshops free of charge. Secondly, this is irresponsible on the part of the proposer, as this puts the implementation of the statutory measures on the shoulders of unnamed volunteers. If no one was willing to implement these workshops free of charge, the rehabilitation programme could not be implemented at all. And thirdly, this is not fair because the state would regulate participation in certain rehabilitation programmes by law and would not pay any compensation for their implementation to the operators. Of course, all of this would be worthwhile – and Mr Velov's proposal knows this well – but then this would be the problem of the state which this money should give once in our National Assembly this law has been confirmed. The proposal for amendments to the Drivers Act is a typical example of how someone in a public function is trying to provide public finance to someone in the private sector. While Mr Velov says there are many organisations that are interested in the implementation of such workshops as he prescribes, at least they should be in this proposed law. But we doubt that. Moreover, we are convinced that the applicant has very good relations with them and that they have written the law together. We won't support this marriage in the Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter presented the position of the Left. It was predicted that Željko Cigler would do this and we did not receive this change. Let's move on. For the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Aleksander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u94	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellow Members and Members of Parliament! In our country, unfortunately, the coalition and the government are rejecting all proposals made by either the opposition or even the State Council. It does not matter whether the proposal is a good idea whether the amendments might further improve it or whether the simplest amendments relating to the traffic safety of all of us and would help to reduce the number of accidents caused by drivers under the influence of alcohol or other prohibited substances are not supported by the government coalition. Statistics on these accidents tell us everything. In 2017 alone, 29 people died as a result of alcohol-induced drivers and 112 were severely injured, and 539 people suffered minor injuries. A lot? Too much in the fact that these numbers do not decrease despite many measures. It would therefore be expected that the government and the coalition will give their hand to proposals such as today and will do everything possible to take additional measures immediately to reduce the number of victims of traffic accidents, especially if they have been caused by alcoholised drivers. Doesn't every life count? In New Slovenia we support the solutions proposed by the State Council by supplementing the Drivers Act. The participation of a mandatory rehabilitation programme with additional work in the organisation in the field of transport safety, education and work with victims of traffic accidents means dealing with all the tragic consequences suffered by the victims. It would only put a lot of people working with these people on solid ground. Our common goal should be the number of deaths due to guilt drivers: nothing. It is not a search for reasons why the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, but simply a finding that it is flawed and does not specify all procedures. The fact is that, of course, if there was true will, the proposal of the State Council could be improved, supplemented by amendments and then adopted. However, the Government welcomes the purpose of the proposalr and is aware of the co-responsibility to create the safety of all participants in transport – that is all. Although the Government undertakes to prepare its system proposal after evaluation of the impact of the implementation of educational and social workshops, we do not know when this will be. In the meantime, they will be able to count the victims of accidents to be blamed by drivers under the influence of alcohol, illicit drugs or other psychoactive substances. In Novi Slovenije we supported the proposal for the amendment of the Drivers Act, so we will oppose the proposal that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Reich will present the positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u96	Dear Presidents, colleagues, colleagues! We live in a time when too many lives are extinguished on the roads. Despite numerous actions, measures, speeches and warnings by too many individuals, it still sits behind a steering wheel in an intoxicated state or under the influence of illicit substances, thereby jeopardising itself and others. At the Alenka Bratušek Party, of course, we want higher levels of safety on our roads and therefore welcome all initiatives that seek to regulate this area. We regret that the proposal for a law has not responded more thoroughly to all the open questions about this law, but that the proposed changes are a good starting point for the Government once the reform of the existing law is under way. A number of things have been said and exposed as problematic in this regard, too much to repeat in this place, so I will focus on just one thing. At the Committee’s hearing, it was said that 24 trained psychologists were involved with the Agency for Transport Safety as regards the method of upgrading educational and psychosocial workshops. They are convinced that a better positive approach, not based on prohibition and punishment, is to educate individuals directly bound by the law, but is to take a positive approach to all of this and to enable these individuals to be involved in improving transport safety itself or, as someone else suggests, even engage in activities where they can make sure of the devastating and tragic consequences of their actions. This is precisely the direction the upgrading of existing educational and psychosocial workshops should also take place. Everything's fine and fine. The mode of dissemination does not sound wrong, but how do we support such things when we do not even know whether the existing programme achieves its objectives? Did such offenders become more mature, responsible, less obsessive at the workshops? Is it not dangerous to talk about changing the behavior of programme participants without serving with at least some information on how the behaviour has changed? In the first place, it is therefore necessary to find out what the effects of the programmes so far have been, based on specific statistics, not only on the opinion of psychologists whose views are of course worthy and must be taken into account and included, but they cannot and must not be the only criterion. There has been much talk about this evaluation, and the Government has highlighted it, as well as many members of the committee, but it seems to me that it is such a big and important aspect that I have to point it out myself. When amending the law, the assessment of the implementation of the existing law is absolutely necessary and inevitable. What if, after evaluation, I find — quite hypothetically, I think — that there are a lot of returnee offenders and that the workshops are not at all achieving the desired purpose? If we find that the workshops do not need to be upgraded, do we need to radically change them and then think about the upgrade? Not only to mention pessimistic scenarios, of course, it is entirely possible that evaluation will show that workshops are well-designed and achieve their purpose. After all, data on deaths on our roads shows that between the beginning of the year and the beginning of the year, 10 were less than in the same period last year and 33 was less than the year before. And it is quite possible that credit is given to these measures to a certain extent. In the case of such a scenario on the efficiency of workshops, we can also, of course, welcome the upgrade in the direction indicated by the applicant, but the fact is that only after evaluation can we discuss how and how to expand and upgrade existing workshops. This, of course, raises new questions, one of which will be the appropriateness and problem of facing the victim and the cause and the consequences that this may have on the victim. We are confident that the Government and its Ministry of Infrastructure, which, by the way, will keep the promise in excellent hands and prepare a proposal that will refine and upgrade the measure. Of course, it is the first move of the Transport Safety Agency, which on this occasion is called upon to prepare the evaluation as soon as possible so that the ministry can take over the sleeves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me say immediately at the beginning of the presentation of the position of the Desus Group that we will support the proposal for a decision adopted by the parent working body – that the proposal for a amendment to the Drivers Act is not suitable for further consideration. While we understand and support the intention of the State Council in the Desus Group, we propose that the programme of training workshops for drivers be supplemented by a mandatory eight-hour participation of the perpetrator in the operation of the organisation in the field of transport safety, education and work with victims of traffic accidents. Currently, this programme covers at least 6 teaching hours of group work with content on road safety, the risks of driving under the influence of alcohol, illicit drugs, psychoactive drugs or other psychoactive substances, the liability of drivers and psychosocial relations between road users. They also want to complement the programme of psychosocial workshops, which currently consists of a total of at least 17 teaching hours, with the mandatory 16-hour participation of the offender in the functioning of the organisation in those areas. Regrettably, however, the proposal for a law has not been adequately prepared and, above all, the appropriate evaluation of the measures already being implemented since 2010 has not yet been carried out and would be an appropriate basis for a new law. Certain proposed solutions could also, according to our assessment, have negative consequences – such as for the perpetrator to work with victims of traffic accidents, which could have a negative impact on these victims. However, I must draw attention to the unusual fact that the Director of the Transport Safety Agency is introducing a new law through the State Council. According to our assessment, it would be more logical and also the right way for the Agency to approach the drafting of the Law along with the Ministry of Infrastructure, which is also responsible for this area. The novel would, of course, be prepared in accordance with established procedures, meaning that the law would also be given public treatment, allowing the interested and professional public to be involved in the drafting of the law, the law would be harmonised and prepared in a form and content suitable for adoption prior to the introduction of the law. From the debate on the Committee, it was possible to understand that the evaluation and preparation of the second novel of the current Drivers Act would be prepared in a manner which we certainly support in the Desus Group. As I have predicted from the outset, the Members of the Desus Group will support the proposal to conclude that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u100	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Much has already been heard today, and we cannot really support this law in the Slovenian National Party, as I have already said on the Infrastructure Committee. The law should be fully regulated. Thus, the legislation in question must, in particular, be legalized, fair rules whereby sanctions would only be imposed on a vehicle of a particular type and category by which the offence was committed or caused. If I give you an example, it's like someone who's a professional bus driver, a truck driver, comes home over the weekend, commits a violation of his license, then on Monday he can't continue his job because he's a professional driver. We will certainly not support the law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u102	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Good greetings to all Members and Members of Parliament! I would also like to welcome the representative of the Government, who is not with us today, in order for the Government to give its position on the proposed amendment to the Drivers Act. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are concerned about how it is possible that a coalition on the parent committee, that is, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, rejected the proposal for a law supplementing the Drivers Act, which was sent to the National Assembly for consideration by the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia. In the SDS Group, we support the amendments to the Drivers Act, which the Agency for Transport Safety, through the State Council, has submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, because the Agency or its Director, Mr Igor Velov, wanted the Agency to do more quickly and immediately with additional measures to improve transport safety, which is also the basic mission of the Agency for Transport Safety and is therefore set up, and that is why we end up paying the taxpayers. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we firmly believe that the proposed measures are very much in place and we fully support them. Indeed, for a driver who has been deprived of his driving licence and who has also ceased to be in force because of the penalties imposed on him for driving under the influence of alcohol, illicit drugs, psychoactive drugs or other psychoactive substances, it is essential to ensure that he is carefully posted to the rehabilitation programme. The Agency for Transport Safety or the National Council proposes that the programme of educational workshops, which currently covers at least 6 hours of group work with road safety content, be complemented by a mandatory eight-hour participation of the perpetrator in the operation of the organisation in the field of transport safety, education and education, or working with victims of traffic accidents. The second amendment is to complement the programme of psychosocial workshops, which has been in place for 17 hours, with the mandatory 16-hour participation of the perpetrator in the operation of the organisation in the field of transport safety, education and education, or working with victims of traffic accidents. Thirdly, the amendment provides for the organisation to be determined by the RS Public Transport Safety Agency on the basis of a public call. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the coalition considers the proposal inappropriate and says it will prepare its proposal with measures. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that there is no time for delay because it is a matter of road safety, less accidents and less or less victims of traffic accidents caused by drivers under the influence of alcohol and psychoactive drugs and substances. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are changing that additional measures to prevent the worst traffic accidents are still necessary. Let me remind you of the last such terrible accident when an alcoholic driver knocked a high - birthed mother to death, and later, unfortunately, her unborn child died at the time of the accident. If the Government or coalition considers that the proposed measures for greater transport safety are not appropriate for immediate enforcement, it must also take responsibility and bear the consequences of doing so, in our opinion, irresponsiblely. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party is that such serious violators should urgently face the victims of the most difficult traffic accidents that have survived in the rehabilitation programme for as long as possible, but they have very serious physical impairments and problems that have affected them for the rest of their lives. We also believe that, in addition to fines and appropriate professional assistance, one of the most important measures for greater road safety is being raised. We therefore fully support the proposed additions to the Drivers Act, because we do not want, as the coalition does, just because the proposal came from the State Council, to reject any measure that would be in favour of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, when it comes to the measure, the objective of reducing traffic accidents and their worst consequences is to be achieved. Finally, we make it clear that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we fully support the proposed additions to the Drivers Act sent to the National Council for adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc will be presented by Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Good day to you all! One correction first. The Mother’s Committee did not reject the law, but decided that it was not yet ready for further consideration — why? The Drivers Act in Article 53 provides that a driver who has been given a driver’s licence to terminate must participate in an appropriate rehabilitation programme where it has been established that the reasons for withdrawal are alcohol, illicit drugs, psychoactive medicinal products and other psychoactive substances. The content of the programme depends on the level of risk of consumption of those substances. The National Council proposes that a programme of educational workshops aimed at less problematic violators, i.e. offenders who have been found not to belong to those risked users of permitted and unauthorised substances, be extended by participating in the organisation's work in the field of transport safety, education and education, or working with victims of traffic accidents, as determined by the public service on the basis of a public call. The applicant also proposes to extend the participation of psychosocial workshops aimed at worse offenders, i.e. offenders who have been found to be among the more risky users of permitted and illicit substances to 16 hours of participation in the operation of that organisation. In the LMŠ Group, we join the Government's opinion that the proposal to amend the law does not treat all programmes equally, as the changes to the third programme, the so-called treatment programme for people dependent on alcohol, are not foreseen. The part of the proposal relating to the confrontation with victims of traffic accidents is also problematic. It is a matter of concern that the victims of accidents should be extended or reinvigorated by the injuries that have remained as a result of a tragic event. Any measures to ensure greater or additional road safety and to reduce the number of victims due to the consequences of driving under the influence of alcohol or other psychoactive substances are welcome and, of course, necessary. However, in the LMŠ Group, we believe that the funds contained in this proposal could be better used to raise awareness and inform about the rules of behaviour and safe participation in road transport at all levels of the educational process. The bill tabled by the Council of State is, of course, substantively supported, but it raises too many issues that should be addressed in an integrated manner. It contains a number of shortcomings or concerns raised in its opinion by both the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service. The preparation of the improvements should be coordinated between the various subjects as well as the competent ministry and the Transport Safety Agency. We support the Government or the competent ministry to upgrade or supplement the existing proposal in view of the results of the evaluation of educational and psychosocial workshops currently under way. In view of all the findings made by the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service and any efforts related to the increase in traffic security, the current proposal, in our opinion, is inappropriate for further consideration. However, we certainly advocate that the complementary proposal be ready for consideration as soon as possible in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u106	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Transport safety and safety of road users are improving in recent years, but we are still faced daily and informed about the transport situation, which is still quite worrying. Despite all the measures we have, we are still witnessing high numbers in traffic accidents on our roads. Most of these accidents are the responsibility of alcoholics or participants who are under the influence of illicit drugs, psychoactive drugs or other substances. Most accidents are caused by participants belonging to the age group between the ages of 25 and 34, and unfortunately they also cause the most fatal accidents. The numbers and data on accidents and deaths are alarming and require the awareness of all road users that each victim, in particular the death victim, is unacceptable. The bill tabled by the National Council aims at educating and training drivers, which should lead to increased road safety. In our parliamentary group we welcome any commitment and activity that wishes to contribute to the reduction of traffic accidents and to the improvement of traffic safety on Slovenian roads. According to the drafter, the solutions to the extension of the obligations of persons who have been sent to the rehabilitation programme are intended to help improve transport safety. In our opinion, the proposer has taken this solution ambitiously, but we have the main concerns in the Group of Social Democrats about their suitability. As has already been pointed out on the home committee by the Members and the Government, these solutions proposed by the State Council are weak and to a large extent undefined. The most questions and concerns arise in the content of Article 53 relating to the participation of a participant in rehabilitation programmes. With regard to these solutions, the Group of Social Democrats agrees with the Government's conclusions, which state that this bill does not address all the open issues raised when the proposal is carefully examined. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has stated in its opinion that it undertakes to prepare, after evaluation of the effects of the implementation of educational and psychosocial workshops, a proposal that will upgrade existing measures, thereby reducing the proportion of alcoholised drivers of traffic accidents and the number of drivers driving under the influence of illicit drugs, psychoactive drugs and substances. We therefore consider the social democrats to be the key to later systemic and comprehensive changes. However, we must not forget other activities that help to improve the situation on our roads, such as information, education, awareness of both young and older, more experienced guides. The Group of the Social Democrats supports the conclusion of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space that the proposal for an Act on Complementation of the Drivers Act is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u107	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the application of rights from public funds. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To complement the explanation of the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Minister, Bredi Božnik, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Dear Presidency, honourable Members, and other guests, welcome! At the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, we have prepared a new law on the exercise of rights from public funds. You have a case ahead of you today. In fact, the novelty proposes the withdrawal of a massive automatic IT calculation for annual rights, namely for children's allowances, kindergarten subsidies, state scholarships, lunch and lunch subsidies to be started in September 2019 and replaced by a soft transition by the introduction of a monthly check of compliance with the conditions for the further receipt of annual allowances from December onwards or the maintenance of the issue of informational calculation only if the automated procedures are made possible. In 2018, intensive research and testing was carried out to upgrade the information system of social work centres in order to provide support to a massive, automatic IT calculation for annual rights and to issue informational calculations for all rights from public funds in a way that would ensure two objectives. This is the decommissioning of individuals, which is the lodging of applications for the extension of annual rights and the decommissioning of social work centres, namely the automation of the issue of informational calculations to extend the validity of annual rights. It was found that these objectives could not be fully achieved at this time, as the implementation processes identified high risks of material, time, technical and objective nature as a result of complex legislation governing the procedure for the recognition of rights from public funds and objective risks of access to data from sources from which social work centres obtain the information necessary for decision-making. On the basis of the risks identified, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities concluded that this could have negative consequences both for beneficiaries and that the right would not be recognised in time as well as for social work centres to which dissatisfied beneficiaries would turn. It is important to point out that the amendment proposal of 1 January 2019 retains the key advantage of the previous novel, ZUPJS-G, that is, the so-called discharge of the parties who will no longer have to apply for the extension of the right from December to December, such as the children's allowance, kindergarten subsidy, state scholarship, snack subsidy, lunch subsidy, as the renewal of the right will be decided by the Centre for Social Work after the official duty. The procedures for the recognition of rights are already gradually being automated and we estimate that the first IT calculations will start to be issued in the second half of 2019. I propose that the proposed law tabled by the Ministry be confirmed to ensure that the transition to a new system for the extension of annual rights from public resources by social work centres, under official responsibility, will be done in a qualitative manner, with fewer problems, with fewer backlogs and, in particular, easier for those who will lead the decision-making processes on annual rights from public funds. In accordance with Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities proposes that the third reading of the law take place at the same meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Emissary Group Left, Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The law on the exercise of rights from public funds is a systemic procedural law. The way this law has been dealt with for the past 8 years is unacceptable. Since 2010, when the law was adopted, the law has been amended seven times. The latest amendments, namely the 2017 ZUPJS-G Act, are being corrected today. First of all, it takes a warning, which has already been given by the Legal and Legislative Service. This says that the law must be regulated in such a way that it is transparent, clear and unambiguous. This will ensure the right to social security and respect the principle of the personal dignity of those in social distress. The change that we confirm today will not help. It will only help to ensure that the socially disadvantaged and other recipients of public funds are not further harmed. Why are we considering this law today? Because the previous Government with the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Anjo Kopač Dark has passed a law that cannot be enforced. She accepted, proposed and wrote the law, convinced us that both users and social work centres would be burdened, but at the same time it did not even check how feasible that was. This is an irresponsible behaviour for which Anja Kopač Dark is directly responsible, and this behaviour has been rewarded with a new function. So now we are in a situation where we are changing a law that is not in force for another year. That is why many questions are also asked. First of all: Why did the possibility of automated issue of IT calculations not already checked before the adoption of ZUPJS-G? After: If the acquisition of data by sources is limited, why does it no longer focus on this and no longer devote additional human resources and financial resources? If, on the other hand, there are objective facts that make it impossible to obtain data, I wonder whether these objective facts did not exist before the adoption of the novel ZUPJS-G. Last but not least: What does all of this mean for the work of the National Assembly itself, since a bad year ago we supported the marriage of all Members? We have already requested answers from the State Secretary on the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, but we have heard that nothing will change, that it is only a change on behalf, that the IT calculation will simply become a decision, that it is a softer transition to automation and so on. We believe that the solution on the table is appropriate and that it will provide the most insurance to the customers. At the same time, serious doubts need to be expressed regarding the unloading of social work centres. The unloading of CSDs was cited as the reason for the proposal of the previous novel. It is also mentioned as the reason for the current proposed amendment. When you read the proposals, you get the feeling that whatever the ministry does is burdening the centres for social work. There's probably reason to doubt that this isn't the case. Every day, we hear about how the centres decide on their own accord, how the granting and non-approval of rights from public funds depends on the flies of individuals, on friendships, and so on. With complaints from the Ministry, you're two years behind. When faced with this information, you plead that 90% of the complaints are unfounded. But that is not true – 90% of complaints may have been unfounded two years ago, but you do not have current data because you do not resolve complaints in time. The reorganisation of the centres is now suspected to have been carried out. Even this, as well as practically with everything you're doing, you've allegedly unloaded the CSDs. I want to know how. As we are talking about a complex law, the debate will, of course, swim in all kinds of water, in particular as regards amendments to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds. We will support the law in Levica, because this is the most responsible act at this time. At the same time, we would like the proponents and the ministry to act more responsibly in the future and not to mess with the legislative process and with the people who feel it on their own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u112	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In New Slovenia we have long noted that legislation on the enforcement of rights from public funds, parental protection and family benefits and social security benefits is so complex and unclear that this goes beyond all limits. It's as if the defendants are smoothly overhearing all the warnings of lawyers, especially our legal and legal services. Innumerable provisions of a number of laws still make it difficult for lawyers to find themselves, let alone to be understood by ordinary citizens. We agree with them that it is imperative to regulate this law in a more transparent, clear and unambiguous way. Unfortunately, the novelty that we are considering today does not correct this unsustainable state. On the contrary. This novel removes the planned arrangements for automatic informational calculation of rights from public funds before it would have been introduced. What should we think about that? That the former Minister had gone too recklessly and without adequate grounds to introduce the new system. That it was just one of the pre-election promises that now broke out. That the new M.E. team is starting to give up too fast. The planned date for the introduction of automatic IT calculations was 1 September 2019. We have already warned the former Minister at the time of introduction that the automation plan is attractive, but it is not well thought out and planned and that it will not be able to implement the proposed one in this way. I'm afraid we were right. The text is very complex and representatives of the Ministry have not yet made clear in which cases it will be decided by a decision in which an information calculation will take place and what the obligation of the beneficiaries will be. We're afraid the confusion will be even bigger now. Such games with beneficiaries of public funds, which are largely socially weak, pensioners, families and persons with disabilities, cannot be accepted, as a result of which we have tabled three amendments, which delete provisions that abolish the introduction of automatic IT calculations. It is recommended that we adopt them and stop the deteriorated regulation of rights from the public funds brought by this law. Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will vote against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u114	Dear colleagues and colleagues! President! The Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Resources, which is before us today, provides for the withdrawal of a massive automatic computerised calculation for annual rights from public funds to be applied on 1 September of the coming year. The applicants considered that this type of calculation, based on an informational calculation of the income for the information system, was too large to withstand the increased burden due to the simultaneous increase in the number of electronic data enquiries. Thus, with a predetermined centre for social work as the deadline for the start of the issue of informational calculations is set at 1. 1. 2022. We will not oppose the proposed amendment in the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek, but we will express some criticism at the expense of the proposer. At the hearing of the draft law on the home working body, the representative of the Ministry said that the objectives pursued could not be fully achieved, as the procedures identified high risks, which are of a substantive, time-time, technical and objective nature. Let me remind you that, already in 2017, similar concerns were expressed when the novel ZUPJS, which introduced the IT calculation, was adopted. At that time, some employees at social work centres also called and pointed out the problems that could have arisen as a result of a number of surveys in the databases and suggested that the system be tested and tested in a timely manner. This was also pointed out by the State Council. Here I must express my disappointment that things have not been done more slowly and more thoughtfully. However, I agree that insistence on a solution that we know is practically doomed to failure would lead to chaos for both employees and users. The latter would thus intervene in social security and would be completely needlessly threatened. We therefore support the gradual upgrade of the system. On this occasion, however, I would like to draw attention to one more thing, which has also been pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service. The Law on the exercise of rights from public funds has ensured the right to social security, which is also a constitutional right, the most vulnerable groups of the population, to those who are in social or economic distress. And this law has been amended or amended seven times by now. Seven times, and at that time apparently no one thought that any change in the law, which was already so demanding to understand, meant an intervention in legal certainty. One of the key principles of the adoption and amendment of social legislation is the principle of personal dignity, which is also at the core of the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. We must not overlook this principle in any way. Human dignity is a fundamental value that predominates all legal order, both in concrete procedures and in the adoption of regulations. Therefore, I hope that this government, our government, will have a little more hearing for the public's comments, and finally for the Law-Legal Service, which has been pointing out this for some time. We'll support the marriage, as I said. Madam Secretary of State also said that the goal remains the same, only the way to it is a little longer. I hope so and that by 2022 we will really reach this goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u116	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! The first centres for social work and thus the social concerns of the state have been placed in our country over 50 years ago, which is good because this tells us that we are a social state. It is not good, however, that the organization itself and the way it works have not been kept up to date at all times. In all these years, the centres have been given new and new tasks, both by the state and by the local communities. Experts have begun to drown in paperwork, and field work has virtually died — which I think is the basis for working with people. However, it is not enough for citizens and citizens who need such or other assistance only in the constitution, by law and on the paper of a decision, to be granted certain rights. A genuine contact with a person who is qualified to help is worth more than a thousand decisions. The reorganisation of social work centres has been difficult to expect, and we have waited a long time for it. Finally, in 2017, we were able to amend legislation in order to bring the way social services work closer to people and at the same time facilitate the work of professional colleagues. They could actually devote themselves to individuals in need of such or other assistance due to less administrative work. In the Democratic Party of Retired Persons, we took an active part in the preparation of the reorganisation and finally gave a green light to legislation that was the legal basis for the modernisation of work at social work centres throughout Slovenia. In principle, a completely new modernised image and the way the centres operate is expected to be fully operational in all their objectives as of next year. I'm sorry it didn't turn out that way. But not for substantive reasons, but for reasons that are entirely technical in nature, or if you want, because of the problems of a complex information system. The move to a fully automated approach to decision-making on rights from public funds has been blocked. The current Minister has presented to us in detail and frankly the problems and consequences of poorly built automation. In the Desus Group, we understand that the risk of imposing automated information decisions, as in the plan, would be too great and that the risk of the burden of timely and correct allocation of child allowances, social assistance, scholarships, protective allowances, kindergarten subsidies and other rights would be passed on to the beneficiaries themselves. Therefore, we support the proposal for a decree on the mass calculations of rights, which is the purpose of this amendment to the law, because we do not want the ill will of people, nor do we want staff at the centres to have full-time work on complaints, because calculations due to the incomplete functioning of the information system would not be timely and correct. People would be hurt by the lack of functioning of the information system, and this is certainly not what we want in our parliamentary group. We will support the draft law, but we will not support the amendments tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Suzanne Leup Šimenka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u118	Thank you so much for the word. Dear Members of the Coalition, one of the challenges in your coalition contract is that we will become a society of knowledge and modern technologies, that we will have an ultra-high-speed and data transfer internet throughout the country, bureaucratic and administrative procedures will be followed by digitisation, digitisation and simplification of procedures will allow public servants to devote more time to actual problems and will have enough time to communicate and find solutions for people. These are the lines from your coalition treaty, honourable Members. Today, we have before us the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, which relates to the amendment made in 2017. In 2018, you studied and tested the upgrade of the information system to allow for the issue of an informational calculation. You have found that the automation of procedures cannot be done within the time limit, since the collection of data by sources is limited. Therefore, you propose the withdrawal of the automatic IT calculation for annual rights from public funds to be applied on 1 September 2019, i.e. in nine months. On the challenge of becoming a society of modern technologies, you will fall from the very beginning. Digitalisation will also not allow employees at social work centres to focus on real problems and seek solutions for people, as they will continue to deal with administration and bureaucracy. It is amazing that information systems are such a major problem in the public and public administrations and that we are lagging behind because of the poor information systems that should be everything today. Even more, due to poor information systems and mutual incompatibility, procedures are in place, there are major delays, and students do not receive scholarships within the deadline. Because of poor information systems or from the European budget, we do not receive European funds that could otherwise be received. It is truly incredible that this is happening in Slovenia, in 2018, and that it is precisely because of poor information systems that the whole system is failing. Today, of course, you want to change the law because someone has not done something. This is unrealistic, this is irresponsible, and this is totally unacceptable in today’s era. We will not support your bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We support the amendments of New Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Jerco Korča. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u120	President, thank you very much for your word. Your Honor! We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds. I truly believe that all Members, as well as all citizens, agree that information, automation and simplification and hasty procedures at this time are necessary, and we remain committed to this in the coalition treaty. However, it is even more necessary for automated processes, even in cases where we are talking about automatic acquisition of rights from public funds, such as children's allowance, state grants, reduced payment of kindergartens, subsidies for lunches, we are dealing with special care. It is the most vulnerable groups and concern and responsible behaviour must be at the top of each policy in such cases. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, as well as equal opportunities, sought to simplify the system by introducing an information calculation by means of a reform in the field of social work centres. Indeed, the novel ZUPJS-G was adopted in December 2017, which would apply to monthly IT calculations as from 1 January 2019 and to mass automatic IT calculations as from 1 September 2019. On the basis of a review of the current situation, the Ministry found that this could not be carried out at the time of the cut-off dates. For the system generates data from as many as 38 sources, and it is more obvious that the date forecast was well-intentioned, but, according to the reality, it is obviously too optimistic. Since automation is not ensured, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has introduced into the legislative procedure a law amendment proposing the withdrawal of mass automatic IT for annual rights and the replacement by a soft transition to the introduction of a monthly check to ensure that the conditions for the further receipt of annual rights by the Centre for Social Work are met by official duty. Therefore, the basic objective of the discharge of the parties remains to be achieved as the competent authorities will issue decisions on an official basis. Unfortunately, in the area of social legislation, we often encounter inoperative information systems and long-term procedures before official bodies. In doing so, citizens or citizens are generally powerless and can only wait for the decision of the competent authority. For instance, there are cases of young people waiting for their scholarship decisions after six months. The latter certainly seems unacceptable to us and the state must act to prevent such situations. We are in the Marjan Šarc Group, and we remain advocates of debirocratisation, simplification of procedures and decommissioning of social workers in the direction of more field and less paperwork. Nevertheless, with a high degree of understanding, we accept entirely objective reasons that have led to the fact that automation cannot be fully implemented in accordance with the adopted amendment. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca, we estimate that the bill must be adopted because in the event of a lack of acceptance for citizens there would be great harm, or there could be collapse and delays in the process of obtaining rights from public funds. That is why we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. Dear secretary, colleague and colleague! Today's debate on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds relates to amendments and additions to legal provisions defining an automated procedure for obtaining informational calculation. This year, intensive research and testing was carried out to upgrade the information system, which would allow the issue of an informational calculation in a way that would relieve the parties of applying for the extension of their annual rights under this Act and that work in social work centres should be burdened in order to resolve applications and extend the validity of rights. During this testing and testing period, it was found that the automation of the procedures due to the extremely complex content of the provisions of the ZUPJS cannot be ensured at the scheduled time. Data acquisition by sources is limited, as well as the daily output of resources makes it impossible to obtain data in a way that allows for a mass automatic IT calculation. If the automation of the procedures is not ensured, it means that the obligation to issue informational calculations is postponed to CSDs which, by means of the proposed arrangement, also become an appellate body. On the basis of the information obtained, the Government has decided that, due to the excessive risk, the sensitivity of the problem and the large number of people who may have difficulties in paying for their rights, full automated procedures are being introduced gradually. We were informed that a set of data from 38 different external sources was included in the system. It is therefore also in some way an objective fact that the IMF has no influence, even though today, in this incredible development of information technology, we find it difficult to imagine that systems are not working. Nevertheless, the Social Democrats will support the amendment of the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds. We believe that it is necessary to respond to the situation that has been identified, to settle the issue in a way that follows the objective pursued, namely, to relieve customers and to relieve the workload in CSDs, and to ensure that people who may even be dependent on these funds receive these funds in a timely manner. The proposed arrangements allow for the proper and safe upgrading of procedures for the recognition of annual rights. Procedures for the recognition of rights from public funds must, however, primarily follow the basic objective of the nature of these rights, namely to ensure protection for the most vulnerable and socially disadvantaged. This still requires a certain degree of individualisation of procedures. We expect the social Democrats to successfully upgrade within the deadline and to be able to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The position of the Group will be presented by Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u124	Good day to you all. I promise you that I will not torture you with this reading, because we have now heard seven times the same thing about how we will all fight for the positions that each parliamentary group has given us. However, I think that the most frequently spoken word at this point is a mass IT calculation, which citizens do not imagine at all, do not even know what that means. This is about the promises made by the Minister in the previous term. This is an income form or a decision given to every citizen; and in the end, all the taxes imposed by the taxable person in order to be able to imagine what and how we pay these taxes to the citizens. And this was so popular and so many times said and so many times presented while making decisions on the reorganisation of the Centre for Social Work that everyone liked it very much. We all do. But at the time, there were a number of questions about whether this informational calculation or data that will be covered from different pools, databases, would actually be realistic, given that we know how the country works; as a great dinosaur and mastodon, it is often not able to talk to itself. I'm saying it's feasible. If Google has done a lot of things to make one or two of the words you type in from a whole web spectrum you collect different data, we have a problem in our country making an algorithm that would collect this data and give this information to one place. This question was raised by the former Minister and stated: “There will be sufficient funding to eliminate all possible errors so that production can go in full with the scheduled date.” Those were her words. Since this question was once again asked whether it would really be done, she claimed that the problems were in the information services, but that she could no longer see obstacles in principle. Today we are faced with the fact that on one side we are listening to the obvious that the thing does not work, that it is a disaster, that everything sucks, that they even propose amendments that want to actually happen to collapse the system. By the way, they proposed three amendments, they should have at least ten, they say they have no interest at all, because they know exactly that this will not be accepted; but they do so for only one reason – that they will be able to discuss today. On the other hand, we have a decision that somehow doesn't fit everyone. With sour and bitter tastes, we only support this change because of one thing, so that the beneficiary of social benefits does not actually get hurt or that the matter will work. But he's waiting for the minister to do a new job, a very big task, to re-establish a complex law. I think it will be only then that there will be a real discussion and a debate, because I think and we are confident also in the Group of the Modern Centre Party, that a lot of this will open up, how things can be done better. But in the end, no matter what, the question is always interesting. Who's to blame? And this issue needs to be clarified clearly. Is this the minister who didn't know if she knew what was really going on back there? Is this an information system that we know who rules in this country? Millions and millions of dollars we throw each mandate into different clouds, information systems and so on. And I'm sure we still don't have a very compatible system in the country, and that everyone still wants to develop their system a little bit in their own way in their own garden. Whether we resolve this issue because of this law or not, I don't know; but everyone will have to imagine who makes the decisions. And today we are deciding on a matter that is very important and was also crucial for our minister to make this move. Whether it's a matter of the National Assembly or not, we'll all say it together. We'll back it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 19 May. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u126	Good afternoon, Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! What does this amendment suggest? To simply delete the fact that we give up on an informational calculation, simply put, or informational statement, how and what will happen. Because it seems incredible to us that the government has come with a law proposing that automatic computerisation of rights be abolished, even though they have one more year before they are introduced. You heard right. From now on, as long as this is supposed to happen, it is still a year from now, and the ministry has determined that it is not possible to do so. If I turn the story upside down, during that time of our government, you know, the income was a pretty difficult thing when we wrote it, we invested our own calculations and so on. And when the computerized income calculation was made, which we automatically received at home, then a lot of people were talking about the fact that it's impossible that things wouldn't work, that they wouldn't be good. There have been many opponents of this, but this has been done, today it is a standard, and we are all pleased to receive from the country an informational calculation. When something similar wanted to be done in the exercise of rights from public funds, this is now the case. Many debaters have already said that this system is extremely complicated. And when you're a parent, every day you don't even know what rights you're entitled to, what belongs to you, what doesn't belong to you, you have to have an advisor to explain everything, what details, what details you can ask for, what you can't ask for. In short, there's not much clarity. Therefore, the proposal to obtain an informational calculation of these rights was extremely useful. We all looked forward to him and greeted him when this matter was accepted; but today someone comes and says, "We have one more year before this, but today we find that it is not possible and that we will not do it." I think it's crazy and incredible. If anything, then from the government that promised debarcation, different approaches, the removal of bureaucratic obstacles and other stupidities, then from the government that has now taken over all duties, I would expect it to sit down and exert every force this year so that what is enshrined in the law can be realized. But it is not that one year before its entry into force he capitulates to say, "Let's not go, this is too demanding." We live in a free world, we live in a world of digitisation, and I have a feeling if we take this project seriously, even though it is demanding, difficult; I agree with all those who say that it is complicated, difficult and difficult. And that is why it should be a challenge to find a way in this year, when there is still time, to enforce it in order to find a way to bring these informational calculations to life. And if you support our amendment, which is before you today, you will actually contribute to this, to the real debirocratization. With the support of our amendment, you contribute to forcing the government to find solutions within one year; not to give up, not to give up, and to say that this is not possible; but to find a solution to the information calculations within one year. And I think that information calculations are necessary. Perhaps those of you who already have slightly older children who are already out of this, this issue or this subject is not even relevant. Members, who have slightly younger children, we are more involved in these matters, we associate or meet also with parents who deal with these things daily; and each one complains that you have to be a real expert, that you understand all things, what is necessary and what is not. Why is that, why not? And once again, an information calculation here would be the right approach, the right way to de-de-ir-kratization, a great help to parents. It seems unacceptable to me that a year before this should have happened, the government despairs and says, "I am no longer going." It just doesn't seem acceptable to us, and that's why we tabled this amendment. It is nothing ideological, it is nothing overly political, it is only de-de-barcation and normalisation of the country to the extent that we make our citizens' business with the country as easy and simpler as possible. And in today’s world, a year is enough time to find solutions to this problem. I invite all of you to join us in supporting this amendment and thus forcing the entire government to find a solution in this year, which is still available, that these informational calculations will also take place in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? There's more of you now. Please sign up. Four of them have been reported. The word is Jani Mederndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u128	Möderndorfer, for real. Of course, if you had listened to this for the first time, you would have bought what your respected colleague Tonin had said for dry gold. But, buddy, you know very well that you've proposed absolutely few amendments if you really want to do what you said. We should change at least ten articles if we want to stop the whole process completely. That's the first thing. Second thing, I'd sign it right away, too, which you said was 'cause I'm pissed. I'm angry that for two years, over two years, he's been deceiving me and explaining to me the exact same thing that we're talking about today that it's going to work. Third time. I'm angry that we have such lousy computer science in the government. If they can do anywhere else in the world, I don't know what algorithms, we have problems getting from different databases. And all that they've been doing for two years, because practically now we should be testing and testing should already work in the sense that it's just about preparing how it's going to work on September 1st next year. It doesn't work at this stage! It is impossible to expect, and I do not believe, that even if we made a decision here today to force the country to do something in one year, only those recipients who should get this money would be able to pull in briefly because it would not work. Therefore, the Ministry decided that the matter would go significantly slower, as far as preparation is concerned, so that there would be no misunderstandings. And that's the whole core of misunderstanding or a different view of things. Otherwise, basically, colleague Tonin, I agree, and I think we're both in the same position. It's unacceptable that things haven't been set up in two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Tonin has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u130	I just want to explain because honourable Member Möderndorfer misunderstood me. He said that if we really wanted this to happen to us, then we should put an amendment not to three articles, but to ten. Ambassador Jani Möderndorfer has been a Member for quite some time, and he knows that when we adopt laws and when some amendments are adopted, there is a conclusion at the end that the law is harmonised. And if it's not consistent with all things, then the government has to prepare the harmonisation amendments. There is no problem in this if we have not amended all the articles so that this law would not be appropriate, because the government would have found out and it should have prepared the harmonisation amendments. This is one way to get a solution. But the second path is even easier for us to simply reject this law and be on the same track as we were a year ago. We have several possible solutions to solve this complication. However, it seems essential to me that all the Members in this Chamber clearly say that we do not agree that our government is despairing at some point when it encounters a problem that this is not the right approach. If the whole world goes into debarcation, to simplify procedures, and when we have a year left to solve this problem, they sit down and say, "Let's not go anymore." That seems unacceptable to us. Support for our amendments would be a very clear message from the legislative branch of power, us – Members, that we do not agree to their accession. That is why I made a comparison earlier with the informational calculations on income. At that time, I was a pirate in this house, and I know what the contradictions and difficulties were, that what this whole world is going to be, everything in this country will go wrong because the information calculations will come; but today they are the standard and we are all happy that they are. Once these informational calculations are introduced, there are likely to be problems, but it is essential that we solve them. But I am glad that we are here with Ambassador Möderndorfer on the same line, that we are thinking the same thing; we are only finding the same way and the problem will be solved.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Ludmila Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u132	Of course, New Slovenia tried to do what it could have done with these amendments because we could not put amendments everywhere, but only on these articles. However, we wanted to say with these amendments that we do not agree with this way of solving problems. If there is one more year to implement this informational calculation, then I cannot believe that we would not be able to draw up an appropriate programme at that time. He gave up too quickly on the eighth. The fact is that it is in the area of receiving these benefits from public funds that we have made things so complicated that people no longer get to know each other. Citizens already have problems because they do not deal with it every day, but we also see how many problems there are at social work centres, and this has been pointed out by the Ombudsman for years. We also had a special session on this subject because the Ministry is solving complaints with two years behind or dealing with them at a second stage. We thus deny our citizens the right to receive answers within the legal time limit, but at the same time we find that they are already studying, finishing schools or not being able to apply for further scholarships because they have not yet received an answer to their previous complaint. When we adopted this law in the previous reference, the minister convinced us how good it would be to make this much easier for the users. Although we had already argued that things would be complicated, in the end we all want the use to be easier, more transparent for users; therefore we supported the majority law in the hope that it would bring what was promised. Now we find that the ministry will give up. I believe that there are so many problems that the current team is having a hard time solving all the accumulated problems; and this may make it even easier to postpone or postpone. In view of all the complexity we have made in receiving these receipts, however, I think it is essential that the process of calculating such information becomes automated, as this also means that the centres will have less work and the citizens will be better informed. And it would be really best for the marriage to be completely rejected and things to start over. I would immediately support the law, which would provide for simplification of procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u134	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I must say that I am extremely sad, even bitter, in this debate about this novelty of marriage today. I agree with my colleague Janie Möderndorfer, he's not here right now, I don't see him; he said he's angry. Yes, today, ladies and gentlemen, it is once again a trampled social state. Today, by implementing this law again – you have announced that you will support it, we do not – once again violate Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution that the Republic of Slovenia is a legal and social state. Really, ladies and gentlemen? Is the state social if, for example, EUR 3 billion for social transfers is on the one hand, but the most vulnerable groups of citizens and citizens cannot do so because the system is so complex, so complex, as misunderstood as you yourself have stated. I am merely repeating and summarizing after you, some Members, who have represented the views of your parliamentary groups. Next, colleague Jani Möderndorfer asked about the speaker who did it. Usually this is what we do in this country and we do not ask in this House, but it is time, dear colleagues and colleagues, to ask ourselves, I will turn a little more diplomaticly; who is responsible, who will answer, who will be punished for it. We have no political power, we are the opposition. But because there are no answers to these questions, because we do not trust, forgive this government and this coalition in which the entire previous government sits, so we have left the negotiations. And that's why yesterday Mr. Sarec pours crocodiles tears because we went out because we didn't and because we don't trust. But allow us so much freedom to decide for ourselves. And if I am at liberty, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, we are free to decide whether we will table amendments or not. In order to have ten instead of three, colleague Tonin explained for those who do not yet know the parliamentary procedure, how the matter is going. I'm here defending his current SMC secretary, who isn't easy for her, otherwise she'd probably be here. And hard for her ex-girlfriend to say she was cheating on us. Yeah, we're in Novi Slovenija, too. Why? Because we have drawn an analogy, aha, an information calculation for social rights with an informational calculation of income. We were there when we made it. We were with him when he was introduced to us by the late Dr. Andrey Bajuk. Does anyone today hope to vote on the withdrawal of the informational calculation of income? Nobody. Since it is a comfort to get an IT calculation, I need three minutes to fly it, put it in the archive and the state does everything for me; except for the difference I have to pay myself if it shows me an IT calculation. And we expected it to be the same, but we said, "This is something good that the minister is proposing." And what did we find? He was, excuse the expression, a pre-election push; not us – Members; the most vulnerable social groups who said, "Well, one day we're going to get a piece of paper that says what rights belong to me." I would also like to say to the public what this informational calculation is, I read from the Ministry of Labour portal: “The law on the enforcement of rights from public funds was adopted at the end of 2017, which provides the legal basis for the launch of so-called informational calculations, which would make all recipients of rights and subsidies under the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources already aware of all relevant facts before the decision is issued, and also of the amount of individual rights they are entitled to under the applicable legislation. The law also provides for the introduction of an automatic IT calculation.” And now you, by this law, are waiting for this automatic computer computer calculation that the most vulnerable groups, the ones on the edge of this society, have been waiting for you to withdraw. I have to take the computer science here -- whoever's doing this, I don't know anybody -- into the dam. We have generally good computer science in Slovenia, we have good colleges, and in this area we do have good colleges that educate exceptional engineers, according to local software engineers. And not attack them! If you don't know exactly how to define the problem, no programmer will be able to program it; I've been working on this for a quarter of a century. That someone says, yes, 38 different sources of data, databases, you know, that's a big problem. I don't understand what the problem is. That there's not enough bases, that's 38 too many?Oh, my God! Please! Don't paint people. And the system, like the media report, blinks because of the reorganisation of social work centres. Please! I was once in an economic corporation, 6,000 500 employees, and we switched hardware and software over Christmas and New Year's Eve. This was in the time of the Mainframs, the dinosaurs, because it was 8 tons of equipment; but I'm not going to talk about history now, let's keep looking. But how we will look ahead if some are full of mouths about this bureaucracy! Dear people, actions count, not nice words and populism. And I'm really disappointed. When it comes to social issues, I'm so disappointed that I don't know what to say to people who come from some small village to me in the office of the Member State, they're going to make a decision that's so complicatedly written that I have to concentrate, that then I'm going to explain to the person who's been looking forward to getting some fliers that the decision says he won't get it because he's got a patch of land. Let's just leave it at that. That's the other thing. Is it possible, colleagues and colleagues, for us to reject this law today? Are we the National Assembly; are we the extension of the government that we are nodding to the government? This is now a key decision, this is a key issue. If the government says, "You know, it doesn't work, computer science and so on. Yeah, yeah, of course, because we understand that it's not going, it's complicated. Really? My friend Jani was talking about Google. We from New Slovenia will not trouble you if you pay a good IT bill, which will solve it, but in time. So someone brought this marriage into the National Assembly and knew that it would not be feasible; but it was a fine promise. Well, let's all make a promise! Speaking of social, let's give the big family 5,000 euros a month! Sounds good, doesn't it? Who's not going to back it up? When there is a balance or a budget, we will say, "You know, it doesn't work, now that the elections are over, let's reduce it or withdraw it, as now that this law provides for the withdrawal of the IT calculation. And if I understand it right now, we're going to have some hybrid -- a little automatic calculation, but it's going to be a little manual. And also this reorganisation of social work centres, I had hoped that one of the coalition parties in the previous term would not support this, which would mean that the law would not go through. Then, according to my information, they were provided with some good staff. Then they said, "Well, if it's ours, then we support the law. Unacceptable, unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen. I will, of course, support our amendments, but not the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Member Vojko Starović has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As has already been said, we will support this marriage because we do not see another way. Otherwise, I agree with the debaters, but there has been one problem that is not in honor of the National Assembly, and I say to the government, first of all, but also to us in the National Assembly, because we are constantly putting in and flicking these laws and doing a really very imprudent thing. And like my colleague said, then I, as a university graduate lawyer after primary education, find it hard to find and run a work committee, a family. I didn't find myself completely, I had to study well to understand. Now, let's put these patterns that change a little bit, add something, about seven novels were there; and give these samples to informatics and then they don't get the case. And I have to say a little bit that it's a little bit understandable, but it's no excuse that we didn't test the system before the previous novel was adopted. The issue of such a sensitive group of people as it relates to and what this money is intended for must work because we are here to care for and bring about the country's orderly and just. In this matter, we have a bit of a sleazyness and do not fulfill our responsibilities when we speak of responsibility. I don't see responsibility as a colleague of Horvath in the sense of putting someone on the wheel and looking for the culprit in any way. They are, some were not responsible in the sense that they were not part of their task, they were not able to do things and solve problems in a way that would make matters work. And let's imagine a little bit above ourselves, when we invest something on the side, take something and not, and then we expect sometimes we have to listen a little bit more to the legal profession to tell us that things aren't aligned, the economy, that things aren't going together. [[…]] Finally, it is a political decision, but let us be so responsible that even when we adopt laws and accept novels and novels for novels, it is to be expected from the proposer that, apart from the fact that the system will start working at some time that it promises us; I hope that much earlier than 2022, this should be a commitment because by 2022 there is now so much room that it must be made. But in parallel, I am sure that we need to simplify the basic law; and this will help us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Check-in is on. Three of them have been reported. The word is Jerco Korca.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. It is not a problem 1st September 2019, it is not a problem 2022, any anniversary is mentioned, as I estimate, but I am so much younger, the problem is already 2008, 2009, 2010, to date. Information in our country stands completely in all areas, and obviously what we are dealing with today is no exception. My colleague is wondering if we're on our own or if we're an extension of the government. We're absolutely on our own. But it is the fact that the government is an executive branch of power, which presents us with some objective facts, we can believe them, we can not, we can be persuaded, we can not. The current state of affairs, as presented by the government, convinced me that a collapse would occur with the implementation of this novel. I believe that no one wants to see the weakest collapse because we have forced some novelty to wear off and that the government has to pull it off; although based on the facts that exist, we know that this is impossible. According to my assessment, reforming the law is the only real option we have right now. Another option or even more important thing we have is to exercise more responsible government control. Here, in the Group of Letters of Marjan Šarca, we will approach this much more responsibly, even after the assurances of the Minister, than the obvious past governments, which, as I say, have been in the past since 2007, 2008; I do not know exactly when I was in the information age and the country is still not in certain segments. I think it is here to look for the basic problem, not whether the former Minister, the current Minister, is guilty; but the whole assembly has done a mosaic of what we have in our country, that the processes are not properly informed. And today, to table amendments — completely legitimate whether they are properly invested or not — are other things, but it is irrelevant. This New Slovenia Group knows very well that with the adoption of your amendments there would really be some kind of collapse if the ministry claims that this thing is not possible. What should we do at this point in time is to believe that experts at the Ministry are competent enough to give us this information, to believe them and to act responsibly. And that because of some superficial information that could happen, let us not allow the situation to worsen, such as the fact that unfortunately we will still have to deal with paperwork by all citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The replica has Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Jerca Korča, I don't know why you have to go back because somehow you're troubled by that mandate 2004-2008 when you're talking about computerization. I can talk to you about the information for a long time, but I only have a replica of three minutes. The information calculation for the income you are likely to receive because you are a debtor works well. That's when we made it. But here you can, let's, we can tell whether you trust the government 100% or maybe only 80 percent. That's what this is about. And they can tell us from the government, "No way; if we don't adopt this law, it will collapse." It has to be ordered. And if we have adopted the law, the National Assembly has adopted this law, which is now being amended; this means that the executive branch has the task of implementing it. That's a key question. Now the government has said: We cannot implement it because there is no idea what has happened, please, the National Assembly, extend it, give us our leave and extend it, or withdraw any solution. That's not right. We probably agree here. It is not right for the government to come — any previous, previous — with some solution that she knows of, she probably knew. Or let the ladies from the Ministry tell us whether they knew whether they had a data model, or whether they had solutions at technical level, before they came to the National Assembly and told us - So let's support this law. Was all this done at the time? The government's probably got a lot of time, half an hour, so I'd ask him to explain where it got stuck. We need to know that, for another time, we will not all make these similar mistakes together.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u141	Thank you very much. This time he has the word of Ambassador Janja the Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Someone knew. Someone made sure of that, because if I didn't know, it wouldn't have been on the table of the new secretary the first day she stepped into her office. It's hard to say now that if my colleague said he was mad, I'm such a kind of man that I jump many times in a luft and have 300 degrees. And here I literally jumped into the luft, because in the past term, we asked again and again, like you, even the coalition Members, and we listened over and over again to ensure that everything was okay, that everything was going to go well. I will read again what has been said and written in detail, the statement of the former Minister, and I quote: "Like an information decision we are already testing in the system today so that nothing happens. We are therefore aware of how sensitive and extensive the ISCSD information system is, which is the basis for calculating these one-year rights and social benefits. Therefore, these tests are already being carried out. A sufficient test will be carried out so that all possible errors can be corrected so that production can go in full with the scheduled date.« In short, very responsible for all these changes. And if you've listened very carefully to me now, and if you've listened very carefully to what the former Minister said at the time, of course we believed that. Maybe 80%, maybe 90%, but enough, because we believed in that good purpose, because we believed that it was good for all users, that we confirmed it. And when I talk about all the users, I also talk about all of us sitting here today, because we found together that the system is too complicated. If it had previously been in the position of one of the parliamentary groups that this law governing the most vulnerable had already changed seven times, that fact alone would indicate how complicated the system is. And a lot of college students today are not able to figure out for themselves what belongs to them, how they belong to them, when they have to invest, when they don't have to invest. There is a real need for simplification here. This has already been said by the ministry on the committee to settle the matter here; and this must indeed be one of the priorities. I can imagine, however, because I also receive information from individual ministries, which software they encounter in individual ministries, how individual officials input one and the same information three times, that they do have it in all systems. And if we are now talking about the fact that the social work centres are drawing up data from 38 databases, which I do not see as problematic in myself; but it is problematic that these databases are owned by different operators, different legal persons who have no interest in changing anything on their own in order to make it easier for a third body to make the way to data easier. I imagine that this is not the case; and I imagine that these authorities, which are under State or public administration, should also be forced to do so in some way. How, it is again in the government, not in us Members, to propose how these matters should be regulated. But once again, I stress that we have warned and asked several times at the time of our adoption. Also, the Council of State, the Council of State, said nicely the last time that the Council of State expressed the same concerns and received the same guarantees as we did. The new minister, the new secretary of state, can't come here now and point the finger at who's to blame and who's not to blame because that's not how it's done. But the Members can clearly and clearly tell us why we confirmed this and who we believed at the time. And we also believe now that if we don't confirm it – and I would not be happy to confirm it, and I would gladly say, "No; you have this, set this up." Totally, but that's not how it's gonna work. And when we talked about the fact that there is one more year of time and actually one more year of the ministry to handle these matters, I warn you, colleagues, that you have not read the material carefully enough. Why? Since Article 12 is also being amended and Article 12 explains very clearly: “In order to enable social work centres in December 2018 under official responsibility”, that is to say, without the application of the parties, “to initiate procedures to verify the fulfilment of the conditions for the further receipt of annual rights expiring from December 2018”. So this is the time we hunt or hunt here, not September 1, 2019. Because I am still angry and upset about this and because I still wish we didn't have it on the tables today; and all citizens and citizens would get, as has been said today, the same as the income information calculation and would know clearly what belongs, what does not belong and how. What do you say at the end? I would rather not; it is precisely because of the fact that, at least here, if not at the time of the introduction of the matter at the Ministry, we show some responsibility and really prevent people from losing their income with January, which, as many people like to say, are in bloody need and where they cannot afford to lose one month in the middle of this income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The word is also given by the Member of Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u144	A lovely greeting to all present on my behalf as well! I cannot support the amendments of New Slovenia alone, because I do not hope to allow the system to collapse on September 1st next year and all vulnerable groups of people would be deprived of their rights and pay off. The Ministry of Labour explained that, on the basis of all the tests so far, where high risks have been identified, there is a very high risk that the annual extension of these rights on the basis of informational calculations would probably not be possible. On this basis, we now accept this change, because, as Mrs Janja Slug said, they will be social work centres by 1. 1. 2019 started issuing monthly decisions. So social work centres will send or calculate monthly entitlements instead of annual calculations, monthly decisions will be issued. The parties will still be burdened because they will not have to be given new applications. The role will only be given at the first right. At the same time, as they say, workers of social work centres will also be burdened, so they will not accept new applications every month, so that one load will certainly be. And the second is that there won't be a million calls in the case of a broken system. If you remember, three, four years ago, the Employment Service wanted to switch to electronic public works. Everything was ready, the institute had a very good information system, it was tested for over a year, but when it came the day that all the operators entered the system at the same time to place a public work contract, the system collapsed. And unfortunately, it's not happening today. And at that point, I also worked there, and I know how many calls there were and everything, so I don't afford it to workers working at social work centers. Nor is it a comparison of informational calculations for the income and information calculations of the Centre for Social Work. Furs has an information system, and the Ministry of Labour depends on 38 other information systems. And as they explain, when workers today resolve decisions at social work centers, they make about 60,000 clicks a day or so. If we were to resolve within three days of this annual decision, it would be 250,000 clicks or these links. Today, no one hopes that this will be feasible. Of course, we are not satisfied with going one step back, but right now you are alone and other colleagues of this risk do not hope to afford it. At present, this amendment to this legislation is also the most necessary or most responsible. I would also say that in this amendment, we are also actually solving the fact that social work centres in the first three months of 2019 will also issue new decisions on an official basis to all those people who did not know or otherwise have no new applications for empowerment, such as a protective allowance and so on. For it has been found that there are many people who have not been introduced or who have not applied for an increase in the right of protective supplements. We are also solving this now, so it is somehow necessary that this matter is indeed being resolved now and not next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm opening the application procedure. Mr. Sonibo Knezak has also been reported. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. I have to say that I had no intention of discussing it, but some things go slowly either on my nerves or anything, it's hard to name it. Now, once again, I asked my colleague if we were still with the amendments. Yeah. Because from the debate of my predecessors, it was now about everything else. I suggest that we all consider shortening these sessions, where we will boast about what someone had done five, eight, ten years ago in this National Assembly, what was good, what they had warned about, and this has not been realized. I suggest we add one column – Remember, comrades? And then you'll get out of it and you'll say everything you wanted to say and what you've done good already, but that's past tense. This is a matter that does not add value. Not at all in today's debate on amendments. We're wasting time, I don't know if it's so cute to be on camera, it's all a charm. So much for the fact that she's been lying on my soul for a while. Of course we won't support the amendments. Thirdly, I know Dr. Anjo Kopač Dark, who was mentioned several times today as the one who deceived you. We're even reading what she said, and we're gonna remember how much of us I'm sure she's a responsible person. [[…]] A large number of matters have moved at the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs in the mandate when it was in charge. This law was also put into practice for good reasons. And also the hands she placed, she probably didn't invent that IT technology would determine its own hands. It is said that she was probably told by experts in this area that the matter was realistic at this time and that this was also put into consideration. However, I am firmly convinced and do not allow you to say that she is irresponsible, that anyone she has deliberately deceived, have little respect for man. So much for that. What the government has done when it finds that it has problems, that the matter will not go away, is what they have done through the ministry or now they are translating, is responsible for my notions. A responsible act because they had a problem that they were about to solve. The two objectives were this law, and we will be the first to achieve what is now said by colleague Žnidarič that the forecast will no longer have to be submitted. Nobody said that today. We talked about everything else. The amendments will not be supported by me or my colleagues in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Not at all. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this agenda item and the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 14.10. (The sitting was suspended at 13.40 p.m. and resumed at 14.10.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u148	Dear Members, we continue our adjourned meeting of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 2, 3, 4, 5, 9, 10, 11 and 1 of the agenda. This brings us to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interruption of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on the market in financial instruments by emergency procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. That is why we are moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 40 votes against none. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. And that concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Funds and Emergency Management Companies Act. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not tabled, we are moving on to the third reading of the law, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 40 votes against none. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. And that concludes this item on the agenda. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds Managers by Emergency Procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendment to the transitional and final provisions has not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 40 votes against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. And that concludes this item on the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Added Value Tax Act by Emergency Procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. And that concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the proposal for a law on the return of money to the Republic of Slovenia from individual tax havens under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the return of money to the Republic of Slovenia from individual tax havens is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Drivers Act under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Drivers Act is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 27. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 19 November 2018. We are now deciding on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 1. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 43. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 4. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 44. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 6. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted either. We have thus concluded our decision on the amendments and I am also concluding the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Would you like to explain your vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr. Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u149	Dear Members and Members! Those who seriously advocate debarcation and the removal of bureaucratic barriers will, of course, vote against this law because this law wants to eliminate something that the previous government has proposed, which is practically very much the same as the current coalition, and this is to help parents and everyone else with the information calculation in the exercise of rights from public funds. Although it is a year before this informational calculation comes into effect, the government says today with this law – I am not going anymore, we have given up, we will not do it. Even if it's hard, it's not exactly that kind of approach. Even if there are many problems, this is not exactly the approach. The government and the ministry should exert every effort to find a way and a way to a solution, but in one year we have informational calculations. Therefore, surrender and such withdrawal is not the right way. And by rejecting this bill, such as the New Slovenia Group, in some way force the government to find a solution this year to the informational calculation. In such specific cases, it shows whether we are really for demobilization, even in a specific case when it comes to serious, tangible things; or whether this is all just a matter of words and words. We, because we are serious, will also show this by voting against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u150	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. And an explanation of the voice in its own name. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. My debate on the amendments to the law is likely to make it clear that I will vote against this law. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I find that the social state is dying on our meals. What kind of bureaucracy? On the contrary. On the contrary. And I was really happy when we accepted here, and I think that all the Members confirmed or at least there was no vote against when Minister Dr. Dark brought the law to the National Assembly and we confirmed it in the National Assembly last year. To the people from Pomurje who speak in my office, I could explain – Look, but now it will; there will be an information calculation, because before the decision you will see what rights belong to you. Since I, as a Member, cannot explain them, this is how we have complicated the matter. And that we are today pronouncing, whoever it is, for information, I ask you kindly, in the third millennium, please. I guess someone who proposed this marriage didn't check what was ahead of him. That's not right. And I regret that we deal with such matters. We promise something before the elections, and then we withdraw. I know it's not easy for the minister, too, what was waiting for her on the table when she came to her office; and now she has to listen to all this. I suggest, I can't talk to you, I understand, I will oppose the law. We are the National Assembly, it must be said to the Government that there is no pardon, that there must be a solution if we are a parliament; or that we are an extension of the government, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-20-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u152	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now we are going to the vote. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 32. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 32.]] I understand that the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the first item of the agenda, these are questions from Members and Members. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the draft decisions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, Ministers and Ministers of 20 November 2018, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions: First time. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Marjan Sarc to Mr Daniel Krivac's question on the global migration agreement. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 43. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Another time. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Sarc, to Mr Jožef Horvat's question on measures in the field of the tax system. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 46. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are at the third draft of the decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Marjan Šarc to Mr Dusan Šiška's question on the disposal of radioactive waste in Kršek. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 45. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Fourth time. The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next meeting on the response of the Justice Minister, Mrs Andreja Katič, to the question of the Magis. Ms Kaloha, referring to respect for the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and Responsibility. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Fifth. The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior, Mr Boštjan Poklukar, to Mrs Alenka Jeraj's question on the finding of the remains of the deceased. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Six. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pikal, and Minister of Culture, Mr Dejan Prešič, to the parliamentary question of Violet Tomić regarding LGBT – a minority of the hostile manuals of the magazine Democracy. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 68. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 68.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. It's a week. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior, Mr Boštjan Poklukar, to Mr Jani Ivanuša's question about the border police. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 45. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Eight. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure mag. Alenka Bratušek asked Mr Boris Doblekar's question about investments in state roads. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Nine. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure mag. Mr Alenka Bratušek asked Mr Aleksandr Rebersk about the construction of the northern part of the third development axis. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 45. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. With this, honourable Members, I conclude the first item of the agenda. I am adjourning the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed on Thursday, 22 November, at 9 p.m. Have a nice day!
