ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-11-SDZ7-Izredna-59.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 59th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58(2) and Article 60(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Iva Dimic, Mrs Andreja Potočnik, Mrs Jelka Godec, Mrs Nada Brinovšek, Mrs Suzana Lepi Šimenko, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, Mrs Marinka Levičar, Mr Roberto Battelli, mag. Mr Matjaž Han, Mr Branko Zorman, Mr Ivan Škodnik, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, Mr Janez Janša, Mr Marijan Pojbič, Mr Franz Breznik, Dr Vinko Gorenak, Dr Ange Logar, mag. Andrej Shircelj, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, mag. Branko Grims, Mr. Franz Lai, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek and Mr. Peter Wilphan. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the setting of the agenda of the 59th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda today on Wednesday, 11 April 2018, with the reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 59th Extraordinary Session has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, that is to say, on the contrary, the conclusion that the national assembly was not a proposed candidate for the President of the Government on the basis of the third paragraph 111. Member of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. At its 56th extraordinary meeting on 27 March 2018, the National Assembly took note of the conclusion that the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor informed the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 111(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 225(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he would not propose a candidate for Prime Minister. On 28 March 2018, the deadline referred to in Article 111, paragraph 3, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia began to run in which candidates for Prime Minister could be proposed, which expired on 10 April 2018. Within this time limit, none of the qualified candidates proposed a candidate for Prime Minister. In view of this, it shall begin with the moment when the National Assembly finds that no nominations have been submitted, within a period of 48 hours within which the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 228(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decides that the elections of the Prime Minister shall be held in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In this regard, I note that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 111 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 112, Article 227 and Article 228 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, is informed of the following decision: “The National Assembly finds that, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 227 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, none of the qualified candidates has submitted a candidate to the Prime Minister. The period referred to in Article 111, paragraph 4, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia shall begin on 11 April 2018 at 16:00 and 6 minutes and shall expire on 13 April 2018 at 16:00 and 6 minutes." I take it the National Assembly has made a decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of the 4th paragraph of the 4th paragraph of the 4th paragraph for the implementation of the will of the President of the Government. ARTICLE OF THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND PARAGRAPH 228 Member of the Parliamentary. In accordance with the agreement of the 127th meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly of Members and Members, I shall inform the Group of Members or at least ten Members by Friday 13. 4. It shall submit by 12 noon a proposal for a decision to execute the election of the Prime Minister pursuant to Article 111, paragraph 4, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 228, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. The proposal for a decision must be submitted in accordance with Article 113 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Since the National Assembly on the Proposal for a Decision on the conduct of elections must decide within a constitutional time limit of 48 hours, it is not possible to set a later time limit for the submission of a proposal for a decision. If a proposal for a decision for the election of the Prime Minister is submitted, the National Assembly shall decide on it in accordance with Article 111, paragraph 4, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, by a majority of the votes of the Members present. I interrupt the 2nd item of the agenda, as well as the 59th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, to be resumed on Friday, 13. 4. 2018, at 12 noon.
