ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 12th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened by the President of the National Assembly on the basis of Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Jerca Korče, Boris Doblekar from 16:00 on, Marijan Pojbič, Mateja Udovč from 13:00 on, Igor Zorčič from 17:00 on, Mojca Žnidarič from 14:00 on, Zmigo Jelinčič Nobility from 15:00 on, Dušan Šiško, Violeta Tomić from 12:00 on, Luka month from 14.30 on, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec from 16:00 on, Miha Kordiš, Ferenc Horváth, Tomaž Lisec, Iva Dimic until 13:00 on, Dr. Milan Brglez from 16:00 on, Bevk from 16:00 on, Matjaž Han from 16:00 on, Blaž Pavlin, mag. Matthew Tonin from 2 p.m. on, Dr. Franc Trček from 3 p.m. to 3 p.m., Jože Tanko from 4 p.m., Jan Mahnic from 16 p.m., Robert Pavšič from 12.45 p.m. to 14 p.m. and Natasha Sukić from 13.30 p.m. The representatives of the government were invited to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 12th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Thursday, 8 November 2018, with the reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We have not received any proposals to extend the agenda. I therefore propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting devices. We're voting. 69 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 12th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law amending the law on social security benefits by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Kseniya Klampfer, Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u2	Dear Members, honourable Members and other Members! The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has drawn up a proposal to amend the Law on Social Security Benefits and proposes it for consideration under the urgent procedure. Consideration of the law by emergency procedure is necessary to ensure the adoption of a bill in the National Assembly in November 2018 and, as of 1 January 2019, to prevent the deterioration of the social situation of beneficiaries of monetary social assistance or of a protective allowance, or to maintain the current threshold for their social security. The current law provides that the basic amount of the minimum income shall be from 1 June to 31 December 2018 385.05 euros, with the amount at 1 August 2018 valorising and currently amounts to 392,75 euros. As of 1 January, it would have fallen to 331,26 euros. The proposal to amend the Social Security Benefits Act retains the basic amount of minimum income from 1 January 2019 at the same amount as the valorised amount, i.e. 392,75 euros. This means that, from 1 January 2019 onwards, the amount of monetary social assistance and the security allowance will remain unchanged. In order to ensure equal rights for all beneficiaries of cash social assistance and social security allowance, it is also proposed, by means of a proposal for a law, that beneficiaries of monetary social assistance and a security allowance who have not applied for the recalculation of the right due to the higher basic amount of minimum income after 1 June 2018 be recalculated by the social work centres on an official basis. In preparing this proposal, the Ministry followed the public's comments and initiatives to ensure that social work centres carry out a recalculation on an official basis. The financial implications of the Ministry's annual proposal for the country's budget are an additional 74 million euros. We would like to point out that the ministry is working to ensure that social transfers are high enough to ensure minimum cost of living, but at the same time they would not reduce motivation for work or increase the risk of falling inactive. Together with other measures under the coalition agreement, such as raising the minimum wage, harmonising pensions, the Ministry will strive to maintain the relationship between the labour market and social protection, or to establish an acceptable relationship between monetary social assistance and minimum wages.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a working mother, and I give the floor to the representative of the Committee, Vojko Starović, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to my friends and friends. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities, as a working mother, considered the proposal for a bill amending the Law on Social Protection Benefits, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government with a proposal to deal with it on an urgent basis. The College of the President of the National Assembly confirmed the procedure. The Committee was provided with the following material: draft law, opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, opinion of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of Slovenia and the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, opinion of the Municipality of Domžale, opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons. Representatives of the proposer, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, the President of the State Council and representatives of interested organisations took part in the work of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative Legal Service, which examined the proposal of the Law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system from a legislative and technical point of view and made comments, in principle and concrete, to Article 3, which, inter alia, pointed out the ambiguity of the article. The Committee also adopted the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supports the amendment. Amendments to Articles 1 and 3 shall be tabled within the time limit by qualified applicants. The representative presented the draft law briefly, and the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the amendment tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups satisfactorily removes the concerns raised by their opinion. With regard to the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1, it noted that it raised a systemic issue, since a new, fourth paragraph of Article 8 is proposed to regulate the content of the second law. In the draft law, representatives of the public presented their views and expressed satisfaction that the government had prepared an amendment of the law in due time and pointed out that the amount of social assistance of EUR 392,75 was not sufficient for survival. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee supported the proposed amendment because they felt it was right that the recipients of financial social assistance and the protection allowance also had some of the economic growth. At the same time, it was pointed out that other vulnerable groups with low incomes, pensions, invalidity pensions, minimum wages should be taken care of. It has been pointed out that among recipients of financial social assistance, the most young people should be returned with additional activation programmes to the labour market. More should also be done in the area of social activation of the long-term unemployed. This mentioned the possibility of social inclusion through socially beneficial and voluntary work and public services, but there is a large proportion of people among the beneficiaries of monetary social assistance who are permanently unable to work. The need to review the allocation of social assistance and an active approach to preventing abuse was also highlighted. While the majority of the debaters considered that the amount of cash social assistance of EUR 392,75 still did not guarantee a decent survival. With regard to the amendment by the SDS Group proposing a specific harmonisation procedure for an allowance for pensioners, most discussers felt that different topics should be regulated by different laws, in which case with the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, no support was given to the amendment. They noted that monetary social rights were a right and that the idea of paying off monetary social assistance was antisocial. The representative of the Social Democrats Group said that their parliamentary group would not object to the bill's proposal, but they are aware that there are imbalances. A complementary proposal involving the adoption of the amendment is prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Starovic. Here comes the presentation of the position of the members of the groups. The first shall have the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats of Magi. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u6	Dear Members, honourable Members, Vice-President of the National Assembly! Today's session is, I can say, an introduction to the content that will accompany us many times in this Chamber, and this is very intense. And that's right. These contents can be summed up in different terms: social security, the social state, the decent life of people, those who work, and those who for various reasons cannot do so. And people who have worked their whole lives and are now retired, and young people who are also entering the labour market. This is not about categorisation of our citizens and citizens, even less for the numbers we so like to move here and there, sometimes to this extent, when they are placed in a very ungrateful position to decide on the level of individual social transfers, minimum wages, pensions and so on. I would therefore like to stress the following: before all these debates, we must have people in front of us who are having a hard time because of these and other reasons and circumstances. The Constitution is our legal commitment and the first criterion of all our decisions, which says that Slovenia is a social state. We wish that this and all subsequent meetings on social security measures for our citizens and citizens do not show how we measure the strength of individual political parties, how we account for people or even worse – who is proposing more. We should not be distracted by these political temptations by the knowledge that they are behind all these statistics, numbers, tables, tables of human history. Tough stories. Regardless of our differing viewpoints, we need to focus on people to make life easier for them, and we prefer to share the medals for liking elsewhere. Despite the new call of the National Assembly, we cannot get past a brief look or a worse impression from a few months ago when the Social Security Act was also changing. Otherwise, it is not a meaningful comprehensive analysis of the course of adoption of the changes and complications that have accompanied us, but it is only right that we today avoid all the missed political moves that have been seen, the bids on behalf of the most vulnerable groups have increased the financial social assistance for a period of six months. [[Incomprehensible]] The amount of aid would then be as envisaged after the initial amendment. This nonsense will be eliminated today, and I hope with more sobriety than months ago. This important lesson, however, requires a genuine political desire based on arguments and sound social policy measures. We must no longer afford ad hoc handball solutions, because we have the strength to make fragile balances in the social transfers system itself, and when these are broken, it will be difficult to put them back, and of course the consequences will be borne by people. Then there is a great aspect of righteousness. At first glance, justice seems to be some kind of force, an insurmountable category, one that determines who is more or less entitled to certain resources, what their height will be, rather than who is more or less entitled to a decent life. And here, in this place, we must make such interpretations an absolute end. Such fairness is not part of any debate. It is true, however, that justice is a responsibility for all measures affecting the social situation of people to be taken systematically, thoughtfully, so that people will not ultimately feel that, because they do not meet the criteria of the legal provisions imposed on one vulnerable group, they are forgotten and neglected – as this entitlement is now denied to many who receive monetary compensation for disability, much less than the amount of financial social assistance. These are the people who have been working, and they are now standing somewhere between the status of job seekers and pensioners who are not allowed to work in health care or are very limited. There are also many doubts among pensioners, who look with great dismay at the policies that were promised to improve their situation months before the elections. Today, however, it seems again that, like all other groups, some other political mathematics has been left behind. As well as the recipients of the minimum wage, which has been widely discussed recently. Social Democrats are absolutely in favour of the proposal to increase the minimum wage. It is also responsible that such pensions, social transfers, disability, minimum wage should be stopped immediately in the way of the categories competing with each other. Worse still, the increase in the amount of one means less for the other, and is auctioned and abused for daily political purposes. Instead, we prefer to prepare systemic measures and measures to strengthen the concept of the social state and to strengthen people's confidence. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the amendments to the Social Security Benefit Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Janja Slug on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u8	Thank you. In opening, let me point out that today's consideration of the novels of the Social Security Benefits Act clearly shows that raising monetary social assistance in the previous term was not just a pre-election candy that we supported or distributed in the Modern Centre Party due to some pre-electional crisis and due to the acquisition of pre-election votes. If that were the case, then today's extraordinary session on this subject would not be on this agenda. In the SMC Group, we have already stressed at the time of the adoption of the novel that the next government will have to take the issue seriously and responsibly by the end of this year as soon as possible. And this is the new government, the new minister for work, family, social affairs and equal opportunities. The responsibility for how much we care has not been placed on someone else, and today we have the opportunity to give a clear message as legislators that we are and that we are serious when we talk about the weakest members of our society. With effect from 1 January 2019, monetary social assistance remains at a level of 392,75 euros, which also maintains the social security threshold at the same level as currently in force. We are pleased with this in the SMC Group. However, it should be made clear that the amount at such a level is targeted primarily by single persons and children without money. These are most often and most exposed to poverty and social exclusion. Unfortunately, Slovenia’s decline in economic development from the crisis to 2014 was among the largest in the European Union, making many people prisoners of the vicious cycle of long-term unemployment and long-term receiving of social assistance. The coming measures must therefore be geared towards the development of an appropriate network that will lead to the integrated treatment of these individuals and their reactivation in both the labour market and society. The number of long-term recipients of money aid should begin to decrease, not because of the slowdown and lazy people, as is often the case with debates on the subject, but because of the need for active social policy and faster and more efficient activation of those recipients of money that are still able to work. In doing so, we also have high expectations in our Group of Members for the Ministry of Labour. We also welcome the recent agreement of the Government and representatives of the Association of Municipalities on the expected average in 2019, aware of the implications of today's proposed novel for the local communities as well. It should also be borne in mind that today we are adopting a new Law on Social Security Benefits, not pension legislation or even its reform, as was the debate on the Committee at some point. Therefore, the appeals of some to a pension were legitimate, but not in the right place at the right time. This has been warned by both the Government and the Legal and Legal Service. Unfortunately, it is often so that empty pear action in the form of various conclusions and amendments tries to overshadow well-intentioned measures and solutions. In the SMC Group, we will support the proposal for a law and look forward to all other coming measures that will strengthen citizens and citizens in the belief that the Republic of Slovenia is a social state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec, on behalf of the Member States, is next in his presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! The fight against poverty is one of the priorities of the Left. Poor people have no interest groups, no associations or unions. They are often in financial and personal distress at the expense of society, powerless and unheard of, and have been put in the last place for too long by politics. Until recently, the minimum social assistance amounted to €298 per month. Do you have any idea what it's like to survive with that amount of about 10% of your salary? I have been approached through social networks by a number of people living in this hellhole. For example, a lady from the White Land wrote to me that she was taking off the interference in the house and could not afford to repair it. When her TV broke down, she couldn't even rent a hundred-euro consumer loan to hire a new one to buy a new one. Every month's score was a challenge. Such, often unheard, stories are thousands more in Slovenia. We can say with great likelihood that each of our 250,000 fellow citizens and fellow citizens living below the risk of poverty are being revived to some extent. We have therefore insisted in Levica that the minimum social assistance and the protection allowance from the shameful EUR 298 should be increased to at least EUR 385, which was the calculation of the minimum cost of living in 2009, or EUR 442, which is the new calculation of the minimum cost of living. We are pleased that, at the end of the previous mandate, we have also succeeded with the initiative, although temporarily for six months, and even more so that we have managed to agree with the new government to make this measure permanent. In doing so, it is necessary to respond to the public perceptions that some political parties are also spreading. A very common argument on the so-called trap of inactivity is that, due to the increase in social assistance, people will no longer be paid to work because the difference between social assistance and the minimum wage is now too low. The answer to that is simple. It is not social assistance with 392 euros too high, but the minimum wage is too low. Yesterday, with the signatures of 52 Members and Members, we introduced a law whereby the minimum wage in a good year will increase to €700 per month, and all allowances, including the supplement at work, will be added to it and not included. Support him, and no one else will have to hang on the threshold of the risk of poverty despite the eight-hour work every day. Another time. It appears that we have only taken care of the recipients of social assistance, but not the pensioners. This is not true, since we are already improving the situation of poor disabled pensioners who receive a protective allowance, but we fully agree that pensions should be corrected in general. No one who has worked for 40 years should receive less than the poverty risk threshold. It is a crime that people who have retired in recent years lose almost half of their income on the day of retirement, for the current rate is only 57%. The correction of both injustices is enshrined in this government's coalition contract and we will insist in Levica that priority should be given to this at the start of the following year at the time of the budget's rebalancing. And one last time. The recipients of social assistance are often viewed as lazy. This is a disgraceful and insulting observation. Unemployment has halved over the last two years, and those who could get a job have taken it, some for shamefully low wages. More than 70,000 people in Slovenia work for wages, including allowances below €667. More than 50,000 people are on espies and many of them do not deserve a minimum at the end of the month. Tens of thousands of them work through agencies. Some work four shifts for minimum wage. On the other hand, there are 35,000 recipients of social assistance, and these are not people who do not want to work. They're mostly people who can't work because of the pressure, the trauma, the disease. These people need to be helped and we are pleased that most Members finally understand this. We'll support the law in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u11	Thank you very much. For the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will present Mr Aleksander Reberšek's position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u12	Dear Vice-President, Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As Members of New Slovenia said at the beginning of this year, we repeat today: it is not worth doing in Slovenia. The wages, I mean mainly net wages, are too low, the difference between gross and net salary is too great. However, in connection with the proposed amendment to the Social Security Benefits Act, I must say that the difference between social assistance and minimum wage is too small. These are public information available in various media. The data confirm the findings of New Slovenia that the difference between payment for work and the amount of social assistance is too small in Slovenia. Like many employees, angry, they might say they're stupid people who work for a minimum wage. However, the bill we are considering does not raise net salaries for employees, as we would expect from the available data. On the contrary, it is constantly increasing the amount of social assistance. In the above context, it is therefore, at least to say the least, strange. In Novi Slovenija we argue that it is simply not fair that the difference in income between the four-member family where parents receive minimum wages and the same family where none of the parents work is just a little over €200. In the case of a single mother with two children, the difference is only €39. In Novi Slovenija we ask you whether this is fair. The Ministry of Labour, which is proposing this law, has also pointed out that if the growth in social transfers is growing faster than the increase in wages, the individual or the family is increasingly dependent on social transfers. Taking into account that the growth of social transfers depends on the growth of living needs, a lower share of the pay for work in the available income means that work is less paid, and that further means grading work. The ministry calls it a trap of inactivity. On the other hand, we are still not aware of the difficulties and pressures of people who need and receive financial social assistance. But if the past government wanted to help the weak in a different way, it would be a priority for us to separate social and family policies. In New Slovenia, we say that there are enough intertwines between social transfers and various factors in calculations. Sufficient performances of the weakest, disabled, people who for various reasons cannot work, and families who lose scholarships, child allowances, drop into a higher pay grade in kindergarten due to the holiday work of children in September lose their children's allowance. In Slovenia the problem is not only the amount of money social assistance, Slovenia has faced much bigger problems in the last few years. Poor employees, shamefully low widow's pensions, are still on scholarships. Employees with an eight-hour worker are unable to support their family, and a single mother loses a subsidized lunch and lunch for a school-bound child, a grant and a student scholarship due to an excess of three cents. No one hears her distress and hopelessness until next year, when she re-invests her papers at the social work centre. Dear colleagues and fellow Members! We are here to help people and to look for good and true solutions. People have to live and survive from their work and not count how many cents they walk too much to receive financial social assistance or any other social transfer. It's time for work to get a reputation and a proper payment. We therefore have solutions in New Slovenia, and we expect them to be accepted because everyone will get more. Members of New Slovenia have not supported the law before, and this time we cannot support a bill that devalues work and does not reward employees. We won't support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The following will present the position on behalf of the Party Alenka Bratušek Mrs Maša Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Alenka Bratušek is a social-liberal party, which means that we are strictly committed to the idea of social justice and at the same time we believe that the country must play a legitimate and active role in solving the most important social issues. Our party, Alenka Bratušek, did not participate in the adoption of the basic law to which we relate today at the end of the previous term. In general, in our party we are very dislikable with such "fire" and ad hoc solutions, which do not make a comprehensive analysis of the system and do not take into account all the far-reaching, not only financial, but even the social consequences of some arrangement. Every government, every responsible policy, must also take into account in any such change what such change will result in the functioning of the whole system of the country and the whole system, in a specific case of social protection. The opposition to such an active policy or active role, when it is not in the government, does not, of course, have an active role. We can only regret this occasion and, at this point, that not all the parties we are committed to such a social state, which is here today, have decided to join the coalition and move things for the better together. Regardless of what has been said, this law is now before us. The law has also broken some balance linked to the minimum wage. It is unsustainable, as some have said before me, that the relationship between social benefits and the minimum wage is so small. A lot of people really wonder if it's even worth doing. Or it may not be better to stay at home, to receive compensation, at the same time to do casual work, to earn, to have more time, and so on. In our client we are convinced that they are always and will exist for ever and ever people who cannot work alone and who are urgently needed for the assistance of the state. And I just want to be able to live in a country that will help these people. That is why we will also support this time a law regulating the increase in social assistance. However, I would like to take this opportunity to say that we will require strict control from this Government and this country in the field of the exercise of this right. Those who deserve this right should have it and even have it in a greater amount. However, we want those social injustices and social injustices to be eliminated when they are compensated by people who do not deserve it. People who drive prestigious cars, people who take advantage of free kindergartens, free of charge, other rights, people who divorce in order to get certain rights — they must be sought and dragged to the table or asked to contribute their share to the functioning of society. I will end by wanting to take into account other commitments in the coalition contract when we support these social assistance laws and also raise the minimum wage. This is: raising the pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's These two rights were enshrined in the coalition contract in the same place and with the same time-limits. Therefore, when these laws are confirmed, we will always require the government to respect this commitment, otherwise there is no correctness and fair play. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u15	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Desus Group, Mr Jurij Lep will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u16	Vice President, thank you for your word. Madam Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members! In the Desus Group we advocate a comprehensive solution to the problem of social transfers and minimum wages, especially in the area of pensions, because it is a right earned by work. We have already written in the coalition agreement that we must resolve all of this in parallel. However, in our Group of Members, we are aware that we cannot solve everything by one step, by one measure, or, if you will, by the same breath. As this amendment to the law is about a measure which is time-bound, we will support the proposal of the law in our parliamentary group. We are aware that any different decision of the National Assembly would mean a reduction in monetary social assistance to EUR 331. This will remain at 392,75 euros after 1 January 2019. The amount of the minimum basic income depends on all other aid from the State to the beneficiaries, the monetary social assistance and the security allowance, through State grants and grants for kindergartens, funerals and post-mortems. If we add up all these amounts, it means maintaining the current level of minimum income even in the future for the future state budget of around 68 million euros. If we look at the whole budget of the country and what we are saving by adopting this law, this is not even such a big expenditure. It is true, however, that the higher amount of basic minimum income will also increase expenditure in municipal budgets. Otherwise, a slight patch to municipal budgets is definitely the signing of an agreement between the Association of Municipalities and the Ministry of Finance on the average for 2019, which will be 573,50 euros. This means that the municipalities will acquire more than 20 euros per citizen or citizen at the annual level. On the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, when the members of the Committee discussed this law and finally adopted it, an interesting debate took place on what should be done in order to ensure that the social security of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia – I am thinking mainly of social transfers as on wages and pensions – is worthy and fair. If we play with numbers and facts, let me first of all point out that we probably all agree today that a person of EUR 392 available for a month cannot survive. At the same time, we must be aware of other indicators showing us the situation in the country. Here we are thinking mainly of the relationship between monetary social assistance and the amount of the minimum wage, followed by the question of the appropriateness of the ratio of the latter to the average wage, followed by the finding that the amount of the full-time pension and other ratios in our country is inadequate. These relationships aren't real, they're not fair. Is it right that the minimum full-time pension is only EUR 500? Can someone who works for 638 euros pair up some individuals who exploit the social state and get almost 400 euros from the country and maybe do something black? So the summary of our thinking about increasing financial social assistance is that it is not a problem in raising it. We are concerned about abuses within the system of social transfers and are concerned about the remaining economic relations of our labour-active citizens and citizens and pensioners and pensioners who have already done their 40 years honestly. As coalition partner in this government, however, in the Desus Group we believe and trust in the government team that all these anomalies will be properly corrected so that we can proudly represent Slovenia as a social and just country. Today in the Desus Group we will support the proposed amendment to the Social Security Benefits Act. However, our expectations regarding the rest of the content are known to all government representatives, which, last but not least, stem from the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša is next to present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u18	Dear President, Honourable Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament and all others present, a beautiful greeting! We have before us a proposal for a law amending the Law on Social Security Benefits. Of course, in the Slovenian National Party Group, we are critical in that part of the law relating to monetary social assistance. As can be seen, the proposal is submitted as a continuation of the amount of €392,75 or this year's provisional measure up to 31. 12. 2018 in the follow-up action for the entire year 2019. Remember, the estimated amount would be 331,26 euros from 1 January 2019. In order to make it easier to understand, it is necessary to maintain the amount at the same level as currently proposed by the Ministry of Labour. However, the financial implications for 2019 should be highlighted, according to figures, under item 3562 above EUR 68.3 million. However, it should also be pointed out that if the remaining amount of EUR 331.26, 52 thousand 182 were to be foreseen, and if it rises to EUR 392.75, there will be 57 thousand 954 planned recipients. The difference is about 6,000 recipients. It follows that not only the amount of the refund is increasing, but even the number of recipients is increasing. So higher is the censorship, we get more recipients. The interest, as shown by the data on subsidies, is what the gentleman mentioned in front of me, and in the dwellings subsidised by municipalities with rents, we have 11 000 214 beneficiaries with 392.75 euros and we have 11 000 72 beneficiaries with 331.26 euros. It is said that we get about 200 beneficiaries more, which means that there is a problem in financing these rents by the municipalities, and this money must be provided by the municipalities. So this is where the difference of 884,000 euros is made. The way in which the municipalities will compensate for this loss is not foreseen. It is possible, as mentioned by a colleague, at a higher average. I'm back to $392.75. We have pensioners, we have people who have worked 20, 30 years, and so on, they actually have 20, 30 years of work, and they also have 300 euros in pensions. This amount is not comparable. The amount of EUR 392,75 is almost at the minimum wage in the Republic of Slovenia. Speculations are also emerging in this area, the active ones are using this challenge and we estimate that there is no proper control over this or control and that what is happening is happening. Don't make any mistake. Of course, we are for social assistance for the weak, the jobless and disabled and all vulnerable groups in this area. However, we point out that exploitation is due to this poor control. As a result, what we have is that the labour market in Slovenia has collapsed. Our position or definition of our parliamentary group is that we have a critical attitude towards the provision of social assistance in this way without supervision or poor control. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Next up, I'm inviting a mag. Carmen Furman to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u20	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished guests! The changes made to the Social Security Benefits Act also maintain the amount of the basic minimum income of 392,75 euros in the following year, as proposed by the Government. With the adoption of the law, an additional EUR 74.7 million will have to be provided in the State budget at annual level, and the negative financial implications will also be reflected in the budgets of the municipalities, which must subsidise the beneficiaries of the rent. Of course, this time too, the latter was not taken into account in setting the average, but the ruling coalition does not understand the warnings by opposition parties that raising the level of social aid will not eliminate poverty. This is not about anyone objecting to certain minimum social measures, so that people can survive, but it is important to realize, however, that addressing social pressures and poverty requires serious work and systemic solutions, not populist Flossules. It is necessary to have responsibility and respect for all people, including employees, who receive a miserable salary for their hard work and honest work, as well as for pensioners who today can rightly ask themselves why they do not raise their pension according to how many years they have paid into their pension. You have it written down that you are following the principle of the social state and the principle of human dignity through the proposed measure. That's nice and that's the way it is. Yet here you have forgotten the principle of equality and justice. The proposed measure forgets that, unfortunately, in our country today, there are also poor employees and pensioners, that in Slovenia we have an increasing number of people who, despite their decent work and efforts, do not allow them to survive decently, that we have one of the highest levels of risk of poverty among the elderly, that disability pensions are generally below the poverty threshold, even though these are people who have left their health in the workplace. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have therefore tabled an amendment to the proposed amendments to the law on the basis of which all pensioners with the lowest pension would benefit from a harmonisation allowance of the amount of the difference between the pension received and the basic amount of the minimum income. In our party, we are aware that today the weakest part of our society receives shamefully low pensions, invalidity pensions and minimum wages, so with the proposed amendment we wanted to alleviate the plight of pensioners with the lowest pensions. Today we have economic growth in Slovenia and still more than 100,000 pensioners live below the poverty line. If some had their mouths full at the time of the electoral campaign, how to regulate the status of pensioners, unfortunately today they prefer to deal with infrastructure or heat a chair at the Ministry of Defence and their Members vote against the proposed amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to improve the financial situation of pensioners with the lowest pensions. However, given the actions of the ruling coalition so far, it has not been expected that your political wisdom will prevail here. On the parental committee, you have even shown us that with the amendment we are pursuing some kind of populism, and you have continued your political farce by withdrawing your decision that the content of the amendment proposed in our party would be incorporated into the provisions of the regional pension and disability legislation. The latter can be understood that the ruling coalition knows very well that the financial situation of pensioners in Slovenia is getting worse, but it does not want to change it. It is sad when the government does not see, or does not want to understand, that poverty in our country is a really big problem, among the different generations of the population, when, with such proposed changes as we are considering today, only appropriate measures are proposed to collect political points, instead of proposing some systemic comprehensive solutions that everyone can support and really need. Therefore, unfortunately, we cannot support the law of discussion in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u21	Thank you very much. He will be the last to present the position of the Marjana Sarca Aljaž Kovacič Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u22	Honourable Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament and other Members present! In Slovenia, a war between different social groups is often created artificially to win political points. We have recently witnessed a conflict between some economists and Levica, followed by a fight between the public and private sectors, and in recent days we have been hearing friction between employees, pensioners and the unemployed. Your Honor, we all live in the same country. For the existence of this country, each contributes according to its capacity, and this should provide each individual with the conditions for a decent life. In order for the state to allow these conditions, the economy must also participate. This has moved the development of Slovenia. Good conditions for the economy as a result mean vital social policy. We have advocated a common solution to pension problems, minimum wages, social transfers and averages in the LMŠ Group since the beginning. Partial measures could undermine the balance between the remuneration of citizens. Our actions also follow full regulation. The averages are now agreed, the change in the minimum wage is made, the pension part is being prepared, and before us is the proposal for a law amending the Law on Social Security Benefits. Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that Slovenia is a legal and social state, and this must not only remain on paper. The proposal for a new Law on Social Security Benefits retains the current amount of monetary social assistance and a protective allowance. With these amounts, we keep some minimum aid for the most vulnerable inhabitants of our country. It is also clear that the largest recipients of financial social assistance are young people who find themselves in a difficult social situation. The essence of all measures related to social security is therefore to ensure dignity, equal opportunities and to prevent social exclusion. In doing so, we would like to point out that we have called on the competent ministry to prevent the abuse of these social transfers. However, we do not agree with the claim that the recipients of social assistance are lazy. Of course, there will always be those who abuse that help, but the latter cannot prevent those who urgently need it. In the LMŠ Group, we will support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I inform you that, in the second reading, the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, so we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, which is to decide on the proposal for a law. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting devices. I am also informing you that the Law-Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 5. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 5.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u24	Just a minute. [[advertising from the hall]] The vote is over, I'm sorry. I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to one. Agenda item — DEFINITIONS OF THE RECOMMENDATION RELATING TO THE APPROACH OF THE EUROPEAN COHESION FUNDS FOR THE FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE 2014-2020. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the assembly by a group of 23 Members and Members. . . Could I have your attention, please? The proposal was tabled by a group of 23 Members and Members, first signed by Daniel Krivec. With regard to this proposal, the Group of 24 Members and Members, with the first-signed Daniel Krivec, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I would like to give the floor to the representative of the proposals of Suzanne Lepi Šimenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u25	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are all most warmly greeted. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we called an extraordinary meeting of the State meeting with the Proposal for a Recommendation on drawing up European cohesion funds for the financial perspective 2014-2020, as we estimate that the current situation in the field of drawing is extremely poor. Let's get to the numbers first. Slovenia is eligible for European cohesion policy funding of €3.1 billion in 2014-2020. The Cohesion region of Western Slovenia has a total of around €850 million and the cohesion region of Eastern Slovenia has a total of around €1.3 billion. In total, the two regions have some more than €900 million from the Cohesion Fund. It is also available around €100 million from European territorial cooperation programmes in Slovenia. The Government’s Development and Cohesion Policy Service reports that current data on the use of funds are up to 30. 9. 2018 The following: the allocations over the approved support decisions amounted to €2.1 billion, representing 69% of the available resources, the contractually linked funds amounting to just over €2 billion, representing 66% of the available resources, the payments from the budget amounted to €508 million, representing 17% of the available funds from the European Union budget's requests for payments to the European Commission, representing 10% of the available resources. These data are directly catastrophic in the event that the fifth year of the existing financial perspective is due to expire. This was also pointed out by the Member of the European Court of Auditors, only Jereb, when the annual report of the Court of Auditors for 2017 was submitted to the President of the National Assembly. At the same time, Jereb explained that Slovenia did not spend any of the funds from the European and Structural Funds in the fourth year of implementation of the current financial framework. The financial statements on the basis of which the final payments were made in 2017 and relate to the period July 2015 to June 2016 submitted by Slovenia to the European Commission clearly show that the final expenditure of European funds in the case of Slovenia was not incurred in 2017. For the European Court of Auditors only revises the final use of European funds. If we look at total consumption, Slovenia is even among the worst five Member States in terms of drawing on all European funds. Instead of the 930 million euro budget, we received less than 400 million last year. A similar situation appears this year. From the planned 1.1 billion euro to the end of August, we have received less than 500 million euro, mostly on the basis of the repayment of the retained funds from the past financial perspective 2007-2013. Cohesion policy is the main investment policy of the EU. For Slovenia, however, it also represents the main source of investment in Slovenia both at national and local level. The funds are intended to support job creation, increase competitiveness, sustainable development and improve the quality of life of citizens. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are often reminded of Slovenia's failure to draw on European cohesion funds. We are aware that European funds for the country and also for local communities are often the only development funds we have at our disposal. This is why they should be even more active when pumping. Finally, by means of these means, we can make a significant contribution to reducing too many differences in development between regions. Unfortunately, in Slovenia we have great differences in the development of cohesion and statistical regions. We have Slovenia divided into two cohesion regions into the Eastern and Western regions. The Western region reaches 97% of the European average of gross domestic product per capita, while the Eastern region reaches only 67% of the European average and thus ranks among the less developed regions of the EU. When we look at the statistical regions, the picture is even worse. While the Central Slovenian region exceeds the EU average and reaches 115 % of its average, the situation is the worst in the Sava region, which reaches only 43% of the EU average. Pomur region reaches 55% on average, Koroška 65%, Podravska 67%. At the same time, it is important to point out that all regions that do not reach 75% of the EU average are among the less developed regions. When we look at the development threat index, we see that this is the highest in the Pomur region. It is followed by Zasavje, the coastal and inland region, the sub-regional region, etc. The lowest is, of course, in the Central Slovenian region. The main purpose of European funds is to reduce the differences in development between individual regions, and it is therefore extremely important that we also benefit from European funds for this purpose and in these areas. We are unfortunately not successful in Slovenia in the current financial perspective. Concerns about poor drawing have also been expressed by many Slovenian municipalities' mayors because they fear that the funds available to the country in this perspective will either not be spent and will be lost. We have a variety of successful municipalities when drawing on European funds. We have municipalities that have spent more than a thousand euros per capita or as much as a few thousand euros per capita, and we also have several municipalities that have not so far exhausted even the euro. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we believe that European funds are of paramount importance to the country. By also drawing on these funds, Slovenia would maintain the status of a net recipient from the EU budget, which means that it would invest less money in the European cash register than it would get from it. Unfortunately, at this point we are lagging behind the other net recipients, so we may be threatened to lose the status of the net recipient from the European budget soon, which means that Slovenian taxpayers will pay more than we will actually get from the European budget. If the programming period 2014-2020, ending in 2023, is compared to the fifth year of implementation in the 2007-2013 programming period, we have already absorbed 30% of the available resources from the Brussels treasury. The Government's Development and European Cohesion Policy Service, as the reason for catastrophic pumping, has highlighted in particular the problems with the information system. It states that they have drawn up an action plan to accelerate with a view to reducing the gap between payments from the State budget and reimbursements from the European Union budget. Nothing yet about concrete measures. In the Office of the Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy, they state that the operational programme will also be amended if necessary. However, given that 2018 is due to expire, such a forecast seems to be very difficult to implement, as the process of amending the operational programme may take some years. They also plan that funds from content where implementation is not optimal will be redirected to other areas. But implementation is not optimal anywhere, so to speak. So all the funds will be diverted? European funds are too large to be able to meet some flat-rate responses. That is why we feel it necessary to convene this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. While European funds are under the auspices of the Government's Development and Cohesion Service, this is by no means a matter of one ministry. This must be the priority of the entire government, which must be capable of an inter-departmental agreement. There have been too many problems in this area in the past government. Given that the existing coalition is only an expanded coalition of the government of Mir Cerar, we cannot promise change if we do not act quickly and with some concrete actions. In the Parliament of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose to the National Assembly to adopt a recommendation recommending that within 30 days the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepare a plan to accelerate the absorption of European cohesion policy funds and present it to the National Assembly. That European funds are of exceptional importance to Slovenia is a fact. In view of the fact that the European Affairs Committee, where our recommendation has already been addressed, has also been unanimously supported, you are more than obviously aware of this fact by all parliamentary parties. This, of course, brings us great joy. Ladies and gentlemen, we also count on your support today. We expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to draw up a concrete action plan within 30 days with concrete actions by ministries with added deadlines and by when these deadlines will be implemented. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u26	Thank you very much for presenting the complementary explanation. The proposal for a recommendation was also considered by the Committee on the Affairs of the European Union as a working body and I give the floor to the representative of Dr Dari Krajčič to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u27	Dear President, Minister! The European Union Affairs Committee considered the proposal for a recommendation on the drawing-up of European funds during the current financial period as the parent labour force. On behalf of the applicant, an additional explanation was provided by Member Susana Lepi Šimenka. In particular, she stressed that the SDS Group had been asked to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly due to the poor situation in that area. Following a presentation of the current data on the use of these funds, she said that they are of concern to the applicants, since European funds for the country are virtually the only development funds available to them, which also applies to Slovenian municipalities. It highlighted a recent report by a member of the European Court of Auditors and the concern of the applicants that Slovenia would soon lose its net recipient status due to the poor situation in this area. Therefore, the proponents call on the Government to ensure that the drawdown of cohesion policy funds takes place on a priority basis. Following the meeting, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that they had no comments on the proposal for a recommendation. On behalf of the Government, Minister Marko Bandelli illustrated the complexity of the area of implementation of European cohesion policy and pointed out that its success depends mainly on the successful operation and participation of all actors in this system. Minister Bandelli stressed that the operation of the new e-MA information system is not the only problem; for example, there are major problems in ministries as intermediate bodies, and projects are being implemented too slowly in the field. In particular, he stressed that the implementation of European cohesion policy, despite certain difficulties, was still taking place. He promised to take personal action to accelerate the implementation of cohesion policy and to say that the proposal for a recommendation was supported by the Government. On behalf of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, Marko Rupar stressed, among other things, that one of the main reasons for the difficulties in implementing European cohesion policy is in the operational programme and also in the partnership agreement. Major problems for municipalities are also the fact that funding for infrastructure projects is not enough. There are also opinions that the biggest problems are at the Ministry of Environment and Space. The debate on the European Union Affairs Committee took place in a unified atmosphere. The debaters expressed their affection for the proposal and were in line with the view that we need an action plan and that the debate is taking place at the right time. The difficulty of drawing on cohesion funds is known, but the substance of the problem has never been clearly defined because of the lack of substantive discussions. Administrative obstacles, lack of clear guidance on the preparation of materials and the longevity of procedures due to unnecessary detailed requirements by ministries have been a key problem. Among other things, it has been mentioned that in procedures, much more is done to the detriment of Slovenia and more stringently than is required by the European Commission. In the debate, several speakers highlighted the shortcomings of the information system. Calls were also made for the reform of local self-government, as a high proportion of cohesion policy is being implemented by the municipalities. It was also proposed that, in view of the importance of cohesion policy, it would require a specific ministry. On the other hand, it has been pointed out that the responsibility for failing to draw on is not only on Slovenia's side, but also on the European Commission's part of the responsibility. The panellists expressed their wish that the Government should draw up a pragmatic action plan to show the current actual state of resource exhaustion and the envisaged concrete follow-up. The Committee finally voted on the proposal for a recommendation and adopted it unanimously. As no amendments have been adopted to the proposal for a recommendation, the Committee on European Union Affairs invites the National Assembly to adopt the proposal for a recommendation in the text before it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister Mark Bandelli, for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u29	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, welcome! This meeting was convened by the Members in order to speed up the drawing-up of European funds. I would like to stress that I am doing my best to draw as many of these funds as possible from Slovenia. In just one month at the Ministry, we did a review of where it all ends. We are also introducing improvements. Among other things, we will try to get another 174 million euros from Europe this year. Although we are here today to speed up the use of European funds, I must use this meeting to make amends for my way of communicating. I'm aware that two months ago I made an embarrassing mistake. I want to tell you that behind this writing of mine, of course, is a complex background, but I do know that my record was not appropriate. I am truly sorry, and once again I sincerely apologize. In my apologies, I also stressed that I will do well to use all my knowledge to make the most of Europe's resources in Slovenia and thus to realize more of our ideas and visions. Journalists also pointed out my writing on Facebook when I was talking about ministerial information. I would like to explain that the undeniable fact that mayors and municipal councillors of political parties in the government have easier access to ministers than, say, members of other parties. These mayors know each other and can ask them friendlyly for help and also get the necessary knowledge quickly. Therefore, the parties are important organisations, where experience and knowledge are passed on to members. That's the information I was talking about. I add that my ministry aims to organise a field office and thus the Ministry's information will be provided to all municipalities and beneficiaries of European money. But I have undoubtedly made a huge mistake in writing to my colleague Eric Modic, and I apologize to everyone and to him personally. I'm moving on to the content of this session. Many talk these days about European cohesion policy. We can read a lot and hear about Slovenia's use of funds. Even in this house, in the temple of democracy, this week, the State Council and the National Assembly devoted much time to the subject. The Council of State has already held a debate in plenary, which, I understand, has served with a number of opinions, recommendations and advice. A broader consultation on this subject has also been proposed for implementation, which we welcome and will be pleased to attend. For the sake of this, I should like to stress in particular that I am pleased to be able to provide first-hand information to the entire National Assembly as well as to the Slovenian public on the situation in the field of European cohesion policy, such an important development policy. It is right that we talk about it and tell ourselves where we are and what we will do to make things move faster. At the time of the ministerial function, I knew that the area I was taking over was not easy, since I was already monitoring it as mayor. But then, I have to admit, I have yet to know how many rules there are for us to implement programmes and projects. There are already more than 600 pages of regulations on the European level, followed by more than 5,000 pages of guidelines and implementing guidelines. It is also necessary to add national legislation, where not all parties count, but I am sure that anyone involved in this story in Slovenia in any way could confirm that the guidelines and rules for implementation are much or too much. Only the managing body, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Development Service and the European Cohesion Policy I run, has issued 16 different guidelines or manuals. You can only imagine how many pages this is. That is why it is not difficult for me to admit after a few less than two months in the ministry that I am still familiar with the implementation of cohesion policy in Slovenia. In the national environment alone, this area is extremely complex and linked to a number of other areas, so the challenge ahead of me is a big one. There is virtually no resource with which our service would not cooperate and coordinate the different levels of implementation of the operational programme. Of course, the beneficiaries are huge, many thousands. And with them, with all involved, we must move forward this cart of European cohesion policy, if I may put it that way. Our service without all those involved in the implementation is irrelevant. But I am always optimistic, and I also firmly believe here that we will be successful. Ladies and gentlemen, let us, even though only after eight weeks of work, take note of the data on the implementation of the cohesion policy of the 2014-2020 programming period. I agree with you that the results achieved by November 2018 are difficult to impress. On the contrary, I understand your concern, and believe me, and my associates. But this does not mean that the results cannot be improved. I will do everything in my power to organize ourselves properly, not only with us, but with all the participating departments. Nevertheless, it is my view that something has been done and implementation is ongoing. A national legislative framework has been set up, on the SVRK’s side, for implementation instructions. The ministries have met the preconditions for implementation, the state budget is currently making payments to beneficiaries for projects that have been approved or selected for co-financing, and cohesion policy funds, and implementing European funds repayments to the national budget, where they are reflected in EU revenue. The means of European cohesion policy are the money of European taxpayers, that is, the money of all of us. I believe that transparent use of these funds is primarily the interest of the Slovenian public, which requires accurate and verifiable data on the state and use of European money. Transparency can only be ensured through an audit trail that allows reliable information to be provided on the results achieved and the eligibility of the money spent. Ladies and gentlemen, I must first refer to the statement made by Mr Jereb, a member of the European Court of Auditors that Slovenia did not spend any of the European Structural Investment Funds in the 4th year of implementation of the current financial framework. I am sure that this aspect of the European Court of Auditors will be explained in more detail by its member, Mr Jereb, to the National Assembly, than it did last Wednesday at the Council of State. Nevertheless, allow me to make some clarifications on this subject, because Mr Jereb did not explain their context in his first statements, so they turned out to be extremely misleading. The accounts, which form the basis for the 2017 annual report, shall cover expenditure incurred during the 2nd financial period, from July 2015 to June 2016. During this period, Slovenia has not even had an accredited implementation system that would allow applications to be sent to the European Commission. As a result, the use of European funds in this period has not yet been or could not have been, as, again, this is the period until June 2016. The implementation system was accredited by Slovenia in December 2016 and sent its first payment applications to Brussels. Slovenia thus confirmed for the first time, in 2016, only during the 3rd accounting period, the eligible expenditure of cohesion policy and the 2014-2020 programming period. In 2017, the implementation of the glass reflected in the amount of expenditure from the national budget, applications sent to the European Commission and payments made by Slovenia. Cohesion policy is implemented within and under the rules of the Slovenian budget. Data on the level of expenditure on cohesion policy funds are, last but not least, an integral part of the final budget account. Transparency and the provision of audit trails are also a key part of e-cohesion introduced by the 2014-2020 programming period. This work, therefore, with an information system called e-Ma, eCA and MFERAC in Slovenia, together with the Information System for the Implementation of Cohesion Policy in the Republic of Slovenia, we have problems. As I have learned in recent weeks, the key reason for the problems and the current situation stem mainly from past professionally ill-considered decisions in the unrecognizable importance of the information system and the untransparent management of this area. If we translate these problems into money, they represent €186 million in spreads, i.e. the resources already received by the beneficiaries of the national budget for the implementation of projects, but we cannot yet confirm them to the European Commission and confirm them from the European budget. However, the information system is not the only reason I am not impressed by the results achieved. The share of realisation under contracts already concluded under the ministries is barely 21 %. Therefore, the implementation of projects on the ground is too slow, as you can read in detail into the material we have prepared and which details in more detail the situation we have in the area of the implementation of cohesion policy. The honourable Members, honourable Members, the proposal to accelerate implementation, which we are already actively preparing, is welcome and I will personally make sure that progress is seen as soon as possible, so that Members are aware of progress and of the diligent results. So much for the intro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Gregor Perič has the floor on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u31	Dear Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The implementation of European cohesion policy should be seen in the context of a longer period of time and, above all, the developments related to both the 2007-2013 programming periods and the 2014-2020 programming periods should be known. When the government of Dr. Mira Cerar began its mandate in 2014, almost half of the funding for the 2007-2013 programming period was not yet exhausted. In the next two years, in 2014 and 2015 Slovenia managed to absorb all the remaining funds of this 9-year period. Thus, at the end of 2015, Slovenia achieved a very successful period when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia’s Development and European Cohesion Policy, despite the great challenges and huge backlogs in the 2007-2013 programming period, managed to boost its pumping capacity in just two years, so that Slovenia eventually jumped from 19th place to an excellent 4th place in the European Union. Slovenia has thus concluded the 2007-2013 programming period by maximising the use of available resources. This programming period has brought more than 5,000 projects to Slovenia and has also enabled the opening of 5,000 900 new jobs. Currently, the full implementation of the 2014-2020 programming period, which has so far supported 368 projects and programmes worth more than € 2.1 billion in total, represents 70% of all the funds available to Slovenia by 2023, is a total of €3 billion. For most of the funds allocated, the ministries have already made public calls and concluded co-financing contracts with selected operators. Projects are implemented by country and activities already carried out are also being paid. As we know, the successful implementation of cohesion policy depends mainly on the successful functioning and participation of all actors in the system. This is why we are primarily counting on the successful implementation of already approved projects and programmes with beneficiaries on the ground. If we simplify it. The calls have been made, the contracts have already been concluded, the projects are being implemented, and when they are completed, payments will also be made from the European Union budget. This is possible until the end of 2023. The 2014-2020 programming period covers more than 3 billion cohesion funds, where we confirm that they should be used as soon as possible mainly for the start-up and restructuring of the economy and for the recognizability of the Slovenian economy, which will also lead to new investments and additional technological developments. Otherwise, the Slovenian Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy has been reporting to us every three months on the European Union Affairs Committee on the state of play in the implementation of European cohesion policy in the Republic of Slovenia. In the Modern Centre Party, we believe that this reporting system is maintained as it has been so far, because we believe that reporting every quarter is often enough. We stress that cohesion is indisputably one of the most advanced policies that enforces results-orientedness and is closely linked to good economic governance to a much greater extent than any other policy at European Union level. At the same time, we point out that when it comes to such public funds, such as funds from the European Union Treasury, it is very important to monitor. European funds must be spent in the public interest, transparent and in accordance with the purposes for which they were made available. In implementing the current financial perspective 2014-2020, we see no reason to panic, since by the end of 2023, when the period of eligibility from the current perspective is over five years. We are confident that the projects will be successfully completed and that all the funds available will be used. At the same time, we believe that the implementation of the operational programme for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy in the 2014-2020 period can be further accelerated, and therefore we support the proposal for a recommendation where the National Assembly recommends that the Government prepare an action plan to accelerate the absorption of European funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u32	Thank you very much. The following will present Dr. Mr Franz Trček on behalf of the left-wing group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u33	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greeting to the ministerial team, nice greeting to everyone. I'm gonna be a little longer because I have this option. So let's start with non-deception first. The funds will be drawn to the end, because after each perspective, there is still a time when this can be done. Second. Finally, let's stop this misunderstanding once – net payers, non-net payers. I would be very happy if Slovenia would put more into the European budget than in such a naive way of looking at it, because that a) would mean that we are developed. You know, on the other hand, let me explain to you about the case. My favorite case, you know I'm in love with railroads. Renovation is being done on railway infrastructure, we are getting funds from Europe, as it is said in the human language – who places our optics there? Who's working for us? Who's coming? Where do these funds go back? Let's stop being naive! Of course, we cannot be blinded by the fact that European cohesion is running well. Far from it. No, we have a whole series of problems, and we have to ask ourselves why. The original sin is two. One original, greater sin is essentially on the team, the establishment of the one who is supposed to do it, the other sin is more political. If we touch this narrower sin, the problem arises – it just so happens that we entered and presided in the EU when the first Janša government was, and we had an approximation, as it is called, and at that time there was a team that worked and understood what we were going to do. Of course, it was logical for those certain people to feel that perhaps, if we say in the human language – they move to Brussels, there will be better money, but it was extremely politically irresponsible that the heart of this team was largely scattered and many people who worked on this process literally told me this quote, “When the presidency was over, I had a feeling in 14 days that someone had turned off the light and turned off the light.” There's some sort of original problem here. Or, if I do it to you in any other way, when I was a Member who, in his previous term as a non-president, was the EU's most active member in the COSAC in Slovakia, when Slovakia chaired, I asked them what they would now do with this team. They said: "Of course we will keep it and we will send the best third to Brussels." Here's the problem. We are now looking at the life span, we have already come to high school or high school, how long we have been members of the European Union, but at the same time we are almost acting like we are not. I'll explain it in a Maribor way. It's about as if you're a football club playing something in the football league, but you wouldn't actually play it. This is how we conduct ourselves in the EU to the EU. But there's another more bloody problem. In order for European cohesion to function well, Slovenian policy should be able to agree on what we are going to do in this Slovenia. Some, let us say, before five or more matters on which the quality of life of this society will be based. No matter what the political composition is now in Austria, no matter how close it is to the Left, Austria knows what the emphasis on Austrian tourism will be in 2023, with a complete graphic image and so on and so on. Relatively close to living, I don't need to go far. I have spent the first half of my term well before, and I guess those calves from Mr. Restoring in the nightmares dreamt that somehow I would convince the Minister in question, and I even half did, that I would not only criticize him that we are not working on a smart specialisation strategy because of Brussels. That we basically don't need it because someone in the department is going to unlock it. The smart specialization strategy, which is not as good as it is, is basically a document where I should ask myself exactly what I said earlier: what are we going to do to make our minimum wages higher? What are we going to do, which Mrs Sonja from the Chamber of Commerce is very reluctant to say over the mouth that in fact capital profitability is a problem in Slovenia? In short, not those workers and workers who work for too low a salary, but those who, in politics in a narrower sense, have to think about what we will do in order to live better. Then we have a third problem. I am pleased, well, that is partly what I expected, after all, Mr Šarec and Mr Medved understand the local self-government that happened yesterday, what happened, then it is forgotten that in the National Assembly we cook a variety of non-excessively digestible mines that turn to local authority to the congregation. My colleague, the former mayor, and I talked to you about this issue where you have, like the Styers, two or three "crazy people" who have a few million things to do, and then you get this legislation, like that, and then you have some computer science that doesn't work for you, and then, like your colleague said, someone who has ten more jobs, one even in the morning is trying to put something into it, and it doesn't work. ICT is a good example, and the former SMC minister is a great example of why we failed or failed to inform Slovenia. Since you have gone to the people's language, what the former Vice-President of the Croatian government in that book about Agrokor calls peer capitalism, and I call that pajda's feudalization. You know, when we had a case of "koro boys", a social work centre, you find that they don't have the same information. Why? Because someone from another political feud shared a little with them. We would urgently need some serious form of a government or state information centre with a separate budget, with autonomy, with the responsibility of finally putting an end to this. Besides Furs, I hope to say, whatever else we look at, the computer guy's whispering to us. In Austria, 40 million were given only in Styria for the information system of health care, areas where I have been working all day to know where they are, to know why they are, to know where they are, to know how much money they need. If we put all of this together, if we have a whole range of unserious sector policies, if we have financial and human resources-based congregations, we have what we have. Well, then there's not much else to be sorry about, and it's true, it needs to be changed as soon as possible, you know. But if the people who come to the ministerial positions – not just you, Comrade Minister – are already going to say in advance: “Yes, I will do the order, because no one works” up and down, and before you come to the house, you are already bred with 80% of the house, and then you have someone in the house who is from another political option, not a professional, not a civilian servant in this English sense, serving a civitas, and then you are a gotof.” And then the POP TV will start rolling, and then we have cohesion where we actually have it. The conclusion itself is a number of benign conclusions, and I do not intend to be here, nor does this criticism fly so concretely on the government's proposal to do what the government should do if the government works. [[…]] You're tough on this decision. It's probably also when we have next Friday's meeting on heart surgery, when we say, well, let's just put this together, someone in their right mind is having a hard time voting against it. As a methodology I must say, you know that with regard to differences between regions – and I come from this region, which is more disadvantaged – you should also look at differences within regions, you should also look at differences within statistical regions, you should also look at differences within, if you want, some specific territorial aggregations, as this little fight is called professionally. Even in Ljubljana, not everyone lives insanely rich. Even in Ljubljana, whatever Mr Jankovic thinks – if you take a little ride to the Gulf, it is not exactly where we walk if we have a little time. One thing: crushing. Sure. We're too many slaves to some numbers. In Maribor, when we had an EPK, everyone – I don't know if I would sing on the corner – would already be one project. With everything we have, over 5,000 projects – who's going to do it, and who's going to trade it? We should have a slightly more serious attitude about this. It is not a force of gossip: “The municipality is too much, but let us put an end to everything except the one in which I live” but also through these projects Smart policy must write development projects so that the municipalities can connect. [[…]] Well, most mayors aren't sheriffs in that bad way, so maybe half the sheriffs have to be to move something forward. And these are actually some of the problems we have, but until we know what we're going to do, until some politicians, I don't know, call another political option for idiots, and 100,000 citizens would like to go somewhere else – and I'll never, ever, ever have a little extra, I'll never tell people who voted for the SNS that they're idiots, and I'll chase them somewhere else – until then we'll have some European cohesion. After looking specifically at my Maribor, other municipalities in Slovenia have on average 20 times less funding from this. This is what the Styrians asked me: “Yes, how?” In the human language, I said to them: “You know, my dears, you must know cohesion.” And don't take this literally out of my tongue, great content, I was doing a 30-million-dollar European project, you know. You happen to be replaced by a key reviewer like us, three days before the project should be submitted – we have pooled blood. We've been bleeding, we haven't slept in three days, we've been turning the whole project upside down for three days, and you have to translate it, and you have to translate it and put it into shimmy and so on. We have a problem that, unfortunately, we do not have a sufficiently qualified team in Slovenia, enough to do so seriously. We have a problem with having a small team in Brussels. We have a problem that we don't know what we're actually going to do, and then we have some fragmentation of projects that, after all, take time, which, after all -- those of you who have little knowledge of IT, you know -- are putting a burden on the system as such, whether it's in the cloud or not, it's not important. As early as 1994, MIT made it very clear that the complexity of the system also increases the inherent noise of a system, and we have a square circle. And then there can be a relatively successful community of one middle-class who has such a normal composition of the municipal council that the mayor or mayor can frustrate himself, that usually a young person can, to start working with it and to pay it there – according to his household, risk less than 30,000 gross annually, which is already a huge expense for many Slovene municipalities – that someone is learning this and then such fragmented projects as he is doing successfully. For example, the case of a white congregation is like this. The former – apparently – mayor, as well as the current mayor, gave some young girls time to learn that. For example, the current Slovenian European Commissioner was at the hearing for the same ministry without a licence. Personally, I don't think it can be a minister without a ticket, after all, it's a key development budget, which is often our only one. Also at government level – because we do not have some serious team that works for the European Union. We do have a secretary of state, who many in slang call a sherpa. One such banal example, Miriam and I from SMC then made a reduction in excise duties for small brewers. On the other hand, something that is at the level of the loss of revenue has been reimbursed to you within 11 months, and if you consider that the large breweries have also sold more expensive pir to this account, something that, say some serious opinion of tax policy, should be taken into account – the ministry at which Mr. Židan was then, even if someone else – someone in charge of these matters was in charge of reading and initiating it without even doing so. And this is now our square circle of the European Union, which we are going to go to, as if somehow we wouldn't go, and it's always someone else's fault. Until, in fact, we, as a policy, are able to answer some key questions, including in cooperation with trade unions and the Chamber of Commerce and others, including with mayors, with young people – as if they are not below 40 years of age, because we have no serious policy for them – what will be some of the key challenges on which the socio-space infrastructure development of Slovenia will be based and from which the quality of life we will have will have such a half dilettarianism. No matter who's gonna sit in this house, who's gonna sit in this department. And that's essentially a square circle or, if you want, a knot that needs to be cut. Many people who are capable of doing so say to Duck: “What are you, crazy? And you go through with it, I would never go through with it." But to do so, it is our fault to the politicians, including the way we perform in the media and elsewhere. Now it is no coincidence that one of the biggest problems is the Ministry of Environment and Space. A ministry where — oh, I would hope to claim — from Secretary Tauzes later on, something like this, when the departments were working, was given to someone in the end, because such dissension was also responsible for some kind of torture and placement, and this is now further beating us on the head. The current minister has quite a bit of butter on his head from the 2014–2018 mandate, but he appears to be a relatively good operative who understands things, and I hope something moves around here too. You know, because I'm going to Brussels and I'm meeting my former neighbour, who's working on a DG, who's just dealing with legal matters, and he says, "Well, I already have a suitcase full of things that I always have to write a visa for Slovenia," mostly because he's a proud Slovenian who works there, he's a patriot of a slightly different kind than some, "get in touch already." In short, here, very briefly, in the good twenty minutes where the heart of this problem is. The key heart of the problem is, of course, that in Slovenian politics there are too many people who just want to be, who, this is my personal opinion, are not elsewhere previously realized, who, in the human language, are largely just to fit in. Here is a fundamental difference between us and Norway, where their secretary of state said to me: “No one hopes to propose a shabbazer.” That's it. You know, with half-dealers, you know, that's the one, too many grandmas, a skinny kid. Thank you. Nice weekend, everybody!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Ducky. Next is the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, which will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with a team, dear colleagues and colleagues! There is no need to panic, or that this meeting may even be inappropriate, even if it is in place, ladies and gentlemen. It is just the right time, we are at the beginning of a new mandate, and I regret that we are now talking to the Minister and the Government, of course, about a minister who is responsible for the implementation of European cohesion policy, Mr Bandelli, we cannot give a hundred days of peace per thousand and 500 days of delay. And those thousand 500 days of delay are just to be written on a previous one, or, if I'm more exact, on two previous governments. But this unity on the Committee, when the actual Committee on European Union Affairs adopted a recommendation to the Government, which in fact also helps the Minister and helps the Government to make a plan within 30 days to accelerate the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy in this multi-annual financial period, reminds me of the fact that on 19 February 2014, we, on the Committee on European Union Affairs which I chaired at that time, together with the Committee on the Economy, also decided to ask the Government to report quarterly to the Council or, more precisely, to the Committee on European Union Affairs, saying, to draw up a report on the absorption of European cohesion policy. It's called quarterly. Since then, since 19 February 2014, this Decision has been born, and I am happy and grateful to every government, including the current one that is working on this report, because it is first of all useful for the Government alone and then it is also right for the National Assembly to be informed. I am pleased that we will meet again in 30 days on this same subject and will look at what this Government's plan is now to accelerate the implementation of European cohesion policy. Of course, we have available 3 billion 68 million European funds in this multi-annual, seven-year financial framework, from 2014 to 2020. Indeed, these are practically our only – well, some are also from the state budget – grants to our country. Unfortunately, from the state budget these development funds are minimal, investment funds are minimal, because we have come so far because of the wrong policies that close to one billion at the annual level we pay interest on the country's debt. And it is true that we in Slovenia do not learn anything from past mistakes. In that first multi-annual financial perspective, from 2007 to 2013, we were better in the fifth year of implementing European cohesion policy, and we were in some ways beginners. Nevertheless, we were weak, so that decision in February 2014 I appointed, and thank God, also thanking all those who are deserving, that we have, in fact, exhausted all available European funds by the end of the multi-annual financial perspective from 2007 to 2013 or more precisely by 2015. If I am talking about available funds in this current multi-annual financial perspective, then I have to add another 750 million to these 3 billion and 68 million. So we're talking about the amount of about 4 billion. How are we gonna spend this now? But it is also necessary to realize that unfortunately, time is money. Time here is an extremely important component. Just like the amount in euros. And what are we worried about here in New Slovenia? If we look at the final budget account for 2017 and the Court of Auditors' audit report, we read, we see that the Court of Auditors is very critical, and we in Novi Slovenija, that we record a decrease of 58% on the revenue side. We planned so badly; I'm talking about last year. With regard to the European Structural Funds, we have planned so poorly that we recorded a 91 per cent drop last year, and in the area of cohesion we record as much as minus 61 per cent in relation to the budget plan. Look, it's just not allowed. Let me also recall that, in April 2014, we requested the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, where we have highlighted, inter alia, the need for the immediate preparation of strategic development documents as a basis for drawing on European funds in the financial perspective from 2014 to 2020. Since then, we have also pointed out the preparation and adoption of both operational programmes, for the Eastern and Western cohesion region, including the identification of the most important infrastructure projects, and have also noted the urgent adoption of a call schedule for drawing on these funds at least in 2014, 2015. The passiveness of the then government and then the government of Mira Cerar are the main reasons for today's, yes, bad not to say a catastrophic situation in this area. However, it should also be said that in 2014 and 2015 the ministerial team worked to draw all available funds from the previous multi-annual financial perspective. And as it is said, they need to be recognized here, whether they succeed or we all succeed. Once again, when I talk about these conclusions, about the meetings and so on, that if the government or governments were to listen better to the National Assembly, the discussions on the working bodies, we would be better off, we would be better able to carry out the projects that we urgently need. I want to touch the personnel myself. We had an extremely successful presidency in the first half of 2008, and we are about to have a new one. When we adopted the budget documents on the Committee on Foreign Policy for 2018 and 2019, we wanted more resources to prepare for the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union in 2021. The answer from the government or the minister was: “No, no, there is enough, there is enough resources, we do not need.” Of course, if you don't have the resources, then you don't have to work. And without a frame, without a good frame, it just doesn't work. Many of our citizens and citizens, taxpayers may not understand what we have here for some rabbit debate, how to not spend the money we have at our disposal. True, things are very complicated. When the Commissioner responsible for cohesion visited the National Assembly, she made it very clear that we wrote ourselves an operational programme for the implementation of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020. So we need to be honest here and not always and in any case point fingers at Brussels, with what bureaucracy is there, and that Brussels bureaucracy makes it impossible for us to draw more effectively on funds. At that time, we in New Slovenia also urged the Minister to consider and change the operational programme. There was still time in 2015, for example. The minister said, "No, this will take us a year." We said, "Yes, okay, one dead time, but then we could count on a higher, higher acceleration." Now that we are here, with this operational programme for the implementation of cohesion policy, we must go to the end, that is to say, by 2023, when the current multi-annual financial perspective will actually break or end. As it is said, how do our taxpayers now understand where is this inefficiency in drawing on European cohesion funds? Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have read these days, watched on TV the terrible consequences of the floods in Slovenia, in some parts of Slovenia where water ripped roads, took property, houses and so on. People were cut off from the world. These are the brutal acts of nature that man has blamed — now not the darkness — on. Now let's see where the non-exhaustiveness of cohesion policy is now. In this multi-annual financial framework, we have for flood security, exclusively in the domain of the Ministry of Environment and Space, only the European funds of 90 million and something at our disposal. 90 million for flood safety. How much of this did we get? 0,1 %. 95 thousand 964 euros, 0.1% in almost five years, and there our nature does us serious damage, people are homeless and so on and so on. I'm not going to be dramatic. You read it yourself. You watched it yourself. And who's responsible here now? I don't know what it is, but 90 million is just some money, and that would probably let us regulate some watercourses, the ones that are the most dangerous, the ones that are most threatening. I guess we can figure out in this country, make a list of which watercourses need to be addressed as a matter of priority, so there are no such disasters as we have now witnessed. On the other hand, if we look again – I will now take only one ministry – the Ministry of Environment and Space, of course, Minister Jure Leben found this situation, because it is not easy for him, I do not criticize here, I am only saying numbers. Just numbers. On the other hand, this same ministry has only 436 million European funds available in these seven years for the so-called public environmental infrastructure, the one built by the municipalities, mainly by the municipalities. But the congregations here are more effective than the state. If the country is, we said, 0.1% of the available European funds have been absorbed, however, the municipalities have drawn close to 90 million of these 436 million, which is 20%. That's why these numbers just don't leave me alone. On the one hand, such a disaster, on the other hand, is a lot of money that we don’t know or want — I just don’t understand — to pump, to spend, to make life easier for people. That's why we're here. That's why we're here. And then there's the conclusion. I find it hard to agree to those who advocate so-called soft projects. Of course we also need some, but, ladies and gentlemen, last time I was in our beautiful region of Koroška – what are you actually going to do there if you can't get there almost by road? Well, if I'm a little dramatic. So what must be done first? Must be a good road connection. We were also aware of this in the 2004-2008 mandate, when we were building the Mooring Highway. Moreover, this debate should in fact open up the issue of regionalisation of Slovenia. We have quite a few regional projects. Pomurski voivodship was the largest cohesion project, a typical project that a region as a second level of local self-government, of course, some provinces, should carry out. And because we don't have a province, it took exactly 10 years to sign a letter of intent signed by the mayors until the signing of the first co-investor contract. I appreciate that the Minister, Mr Bandelli, has now taken a step forward here and acknowledged that Slovenia, I quote, "is somewhat lagging behind in the implementation of the current programming period 2014-2020" and that the proposal supports the proponents. We also support it in Novi Slovenija and look forward to the debate in about one month.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u37	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Hello, Minister with the team! In recent weeks the cohesion policy of Slovenia has often been addressed; in the National Assembly itself, the State Council as well as the media theme has become interesting enough to somehow come to the fore. I agree that cohesion policy needs to be discussed, if not because of another, which I will also explain below, and because of the mistakes which show a general lack of awareness of the whole area. And that, Your Honor, is worrisome. After all, it is an important source of Slovenian budget; it is practically the only development funds Slovenia currently has. And it is an area that few people know, as it seems, even less understands, even though it is 3 billion euro of the funds that we have available from this title in the financial perspective 2014-2020. But what saddens me is that those who know and understand the area enjoy manipulating and adapting data to their daily political needs. This is unacceptable and, above all, I am looking forward to today's debates. This is a policy that is also very important to us in development policy. Moreover, I hope to say that the resources we receive from European cohesion policy are practically the only development funds we have. In the SAB Group, however, we are aware that not everything is as we would like for us in such an important area. The Minister also spoke about this at his hearing in September this year, two months ago. Yes, indeed, pumping is not going as well as we should or as we all would like, we Members, Members of the SAB and the Government together with Minister Bandell. This is a fact that needs to be recognised, and this is a fact that will be addressed appropriately by the Minister, including through an action plan to be transmitted to us by the Members. That's what he promised us. But to say that the situation is catastrophic, alarming – I don't know if that's entirely justified. Because then there is such a catastrophic situation throughout the European Union. Because we do not stand out in the way that some — probably because of the upcoming local elections — would like to show. Official documents that are publicly available testify to this, not least the ongoing implementation of the budget, which nevertheless shows a steady flow of these funds. Not at the desired height, but at the same time. And all the time, all the years. One word or two more about why I am convinced that we must start talking about cohesion policy, particularly in an argumentative, professional way, why it is important that cohesion policy approaches people who are beneficiaries. The understanding of the European cohesion policy players themselves is complex. We have management and supervision bodies: the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Development and European Cohesion Policy Service, the Ministry of Finance, the EU Treasury Management Sector and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for budgetary control. Then there are the implementing bodies or intermediate bodies. It is a matter of ministries which, through calls for funds, also allocate to the final beneficiaries and ultimately to the monitoring committee. So the SVRK, run by Minister Bandelli, is not just a job, it's a service that affects virtually every department in every area. Therefore, we do well to talk today about problems that are truly loving. We said pumping wasn't what we wanted. That's right. I'm not going to talk about the problems they have in the department, tell them more on their own, and how they're going to solve these problems, and I'm going to say the following. A national legislative framework has been put in place for this current perspective. I'm not sure it's clear, but we at state level, you need to know, for example, we didn't have a development strategy. The ministry did not have any sectoral strategies – we say that they did not have the previous conditions for implementation. This had to be prepared, and so did it. We're not talking about this anymore. We can only talk about how to improve these documents. I sincerely hope that we are also discussing these subjects. The previous perspective, which looked even worse during the same period of implementation than the current one, is virtually 100 % depreciated. And these last drawbacks were realized this year. I'm sure that's how it's gonna be with this perspective. Even since I know that Minister Bandelli is a person who can achieve the goal he has set himself. So, since the situation is pink, it is not. But it's not catastrophic either. It will take a lot of work, energy and knowledge, but in the SAB Group, we are confident that Minister Bandelli and his team will be able to do it. We will support the recommendation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u38	Thank you very much. The word is given by Ivan Hršak, Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Ivan, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u39	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected minister with his team, respectable colleagues and colleagues! In the House of Commons, we understand that today's debate in the National Assembly will provide answers on how to draw on EU funds and on the Government's measures to improve it. It should be stressed that the level of EU funds is not at risk, but Slovenia has difficulty in drawing on the EU funds dynamics. As a result, it will have to make a greater effort to reduce the gap between payments made from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and to recover from the European budget. In every financial perspective, governments have difficulty drawing on European funds. The biggest problems were in 2007 and 2008, when Slovenia invested more in the EU budget than it had received. The difficulty was also in drawing on the previous financial perspective, where, in 2014 and 2015, the former government had to draw on funds that would otherwise have been lost. As a result, the efforts made by the RS Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy were the most focused on this objective. With regard to the funds in the current financial perspective, it should be stressed that the operational programme for the implementation of the European cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 provides funding of some more than €3 billion. The Slovenian Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy has already allocated EUR 2.1 billion to ministers as the managing authority. For most of the funds allocated, the ministries have already made public calls and concluded co-financing contracts with selected operators. Projects are implemented by country and activities already carried out are also being paid. On the basis of the revenue realised in the EU budget by the end of September 2018, funding for cohesion policy amounting to EUR 265.5 million was received. By drawing European funds from European cohesion policy from the current financial perspective, Slovenia is not in line with the planned funds in the state budget. European funds are an important source of funding for state and municipal investments that have a significant impact on economic growth and employment in Slovenia. As economic growth slows down, they will play an even more important role in promoting economic development in the future. The key is how the government will allow faster absorption of European cohesion funds from the 2014-2020 financial perspective. The Coalition Treaty provides that the activities and preparation of projects will be accelerated to better draw European funds from the financial perspective. Human and institutional stability in the implementation of European cohesion policy will also be ensured. Under the Coalition Treaty, the necessary support mechanisms for local communities in the preparation of projects aimed at making more efficient use of cohesion and other European funds into the current and upcoming 2021-2027 perspectives. As a result, in the Desus Group, we expect the Government to fulfil those commitments under the Coalition Treaty as quickly as possible. It will also make an important contribution to speeding up the deployment of an information system for the implementation of European cohesion policy. The fact that they are involved in the implementation of cohesion policy shows a number of shortcomings in implementation. With regard to the information system, the Court of Auditors also recommended that the managing authority establish a centralised data record of detected individual system irregularities in the central information system by reviewing the effectiveness of the management of identified irregularities and financial corrections in drawing up European cohesion policy funds in the Republic of Slovenia during the 2007-2013 programming period. For this reason, we propose to the Desus Group that the Government take into account the proposals of the Court of Auditors. In the future, the managing authority should also provide training in drawing on European funds, communicating and informing the public in accordance with the communication strategy of the European Cohesion Policy. With regard to the proposed decision, however, we can say that in the Desus Group we support the decision by which the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepare a plan within 30 days to accelerate the absorption of European cohesion policy funds and to present it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Jani Ivanuša has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u41	Dearly present, once again, Mr Vice President, Mr Minister, a nice greeting! In the Slovenian National Party, we will undoubtedly support the recommendation on drawing on the European cohesion funds of the financial perspective 2014-2020 proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, not because we are both in opposition and we would like to block the work of the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this way, but because the proposal is good for the whole of Slovenia and its citizens. In addition, it is not negligible that the Government's view is that it agrees that Slovenia has fallen behind in the implementation of cohesion funds drawbacks in the 2014-2020 financial perspective. Support for the proposal also comes from local communities. Of course, we would like to be in a group of countries that are net contributors, not like we are in a group of net recipients. European funds are extremely important because they are practically the only development funds available to us within the European Union. If such funds are not exhausted and remain in the budget of the European Union, this is one of our officials' big pigs. The funds are allocated for the purpose and should also be exhausted in full if we are to provide our country with comparable status with the most developed countries in the European Union and could thus catch up with them in reducing disparities in the economic, social and territorial fields. Cohesion policy is aimed at creating jobs, business competitiveness, economic growth, sustainable development and ultimately improving the quality of life of citizens. As we obviously do not see for ourselves that something is seriously wrong in our country, we are also reminded of this from abroad, which is what only Jereb, a member of the European Court of Auditors, has pointed out when the European Court of Auditors' annual report for 2017 is submitted. The member explained that Slovenia has not spent any resources – we have already heard that today. Isn't that just awful? In the graph report, which shows that in 2017 both the Republic of Italy and Hungary were successful in drawing on funds. So our neighbors can and obviously we can't or can't. Why? Let the government team answer that, but not much different from the government of the previous term, so the situation must be very well known. We cannot agree with the Government's position that the current situation is the fault of the information system. The funds have been drawn up for a number of years and it is unacceptable to find an on-call culprit in 2018, in which case a computer computer that is supposed to be responsible for the condition that those funds are not used. Such a transfer of responsibility is irresponsible. The government has issued a quarterly report on the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy, where it is surprising that a decision has been taken to support a public call to co-finance the construction of the next generation open broadband networks, with the contribution of the European Union of EUR 14.8 million, which is threatened by the failure of the public tender. The report also shows that a project for the flood management of the Gradašćica basin, which amounts to EUR 28.5 million for the European Union, and a project to ensure flood safety of the Drava river, the Medja area with thought, with a contribution of EUR 15.2 million for the EU. From these projects alone, the amount of European funds is slightly less than €60 million. Projects such as broadband and flood safety are also those that benefit all our citizens. Since the funds are not drawn up or are poorly recognised by the current authorities of the Republic of Slovenia and constitute a national disgrace within the European Union, the recommendation on the preparation of a plan to accelerate the absorption of European cohesion policy funds is undoubtedly to be supported. However, I still have to turn to the Minister's statement, because at the beginning of the debate or his performance, I understood that we were somewhere in the confessional. That editorial didn't seem to fit in with the Minister's presentation. I would expect him to present appropriate measures to improve the use of European funds, and I have not heard a word of this. But I believe him in the part where he said he was quick to work fast, because it's sometimes seen in road traffic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u42	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u43	Hello, everyone! For new faces that had not yet met with the area of European funds before June 2018, the finding of the situation in this area was, in fact, surprising news, because we are among the worst in the European Union. Is this really a surprising news? No, not at all, dear colleagues. Let me just remind you of the last two ministers in this area. The first was Violeta Bulc, the current EU Commissioner, who has done nothing as Minister or Commissioner in the field of European funding. The second was Alana Smurf, the result is very similar. That is why, today, fully justified eyes are fixed on current Minister Bandell, and I hope that in fact, in 30 days, we will find that things are changing for the better. I would like to remind you, Mr President, that Slovenia is entitled to €3.1 billion in European cohesion policy funding in the period 2014-2020. 3.1 billion euros, but we can't take advantage of them. Payments from the budget so far amounted to EUR 508 million, representing 17% of the available resources. Payment requests from the EU budget submitted to the European Commission amounted to EUR 310 million, representing only 10% of the available resources. Do we really imagine what numbers we're talking about? In front of us or the last third of the current EU perspective has already begun, and therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we still agree with the statement made by the Member of the European Court of Auditors, Mr Jereb, that the situation in this area is catastrophic. So that the situation is catastrophic, we are not only talking in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but we are also being informed by those who are in the European Court of Auditors. It noted that at least the current government should be sober and realistic in terms of drawing on the European cohesion funds of the 2014-2020 financial perspective are both more than justifiable. We still have a vivid memory of the EU perspective in the Slovenian Democratic Party 2017-2014. At the time we took over the government in 2012, when we found that the situation was also devastating, then Prime Minister Janez Janša called on the entire ministerial team to start working urgently in this area and solve things. The data speaks for itself. In 2012, the largest payments were made from payment applications. The ministers of the week have really accelerated the work. Moreover, new ideas have emerged, which have also come true very quickly. In the local area, you probably have all kinds of energy-saving kindergartens, schools, libraries, health homes, and other things to list. For this we can especially thank the then Minister of Infrastructure Zvonet Černač and the then Members who came up with the idea of – and realized – how to use EU funds quickly and efficiently. Therefore, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we invite the Minister to draw the material from the drawers and to consult ministers and Members and the mayors of the period, and in particular the well-intentioned advice, to start working as soon as possible. But it is true that there are quite a few problems and challenges ahead of you. Let me just count a few. Firstly, hiding for the idea of setting up field offices, as you have predicted, means that the EU perspective will, in fact, end sooner than it will be established and start to work locally. Secondly, when drawing, you cannot be successful with the same people who did not know what to do and how to do in recent years, and who, through EU regulators, invent new and new problems instead of solving them. Thirdly, the former government has not had a hearing for congregations, farmers, craftsmen and economists about bureaucratic reservations and problems, since we are witness to a recycled government, there is a legitimate fear that it will not be otherwise now. Fourthly, you cannot be successful in drawing on funds if the information system does not follow needs. Instead of the information cloud of former Minister Koprivnik, we have information chaos. Yes, these are real data, real situations, and I hope that we will actually take steps forward for the sake of all of us. If we look at total consumption, Slovenia is even among the worst five Member States to draw on all European funds. Instead of the 930 million euro budget, we received less than 400 million last year. A similar bad situation is also showing for this year – from the planned 1.1 billion euros to the end of August this year we received less than 500 million euros, and this, with respect, has been paid back from the previous financial perspective, 2007-2013. From the next few years, our future will also depend on the next period, so let us not forget the number that must be of great importance to us all – €3 billion. That's what the biggest challenge is, and that's what we have to do to somehow get to these funds. With the problem of EU spending in the SDS, we draw attention to another problem. We believe that local communities are more active in drawing on EU funds, and we reiterate the need for serious reflection on the establishment of the provinces, which would help to make European funds more efficient. Colleagues and colleagues, cohesion policy is the main EU investment policy, and for Slovenia it is also the main source of investment at both national and local level. Resources are important support for job creation, increasing competitiveness, sustainable development and improving the quality of life of citizens. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we read with concern the stories of the government's incompetence in operational work in recent weeks. If you do not believe us, dear colleagues and colleagues, ask the Slovenian mayors what they think about drawing on European funds. They fear that the resources available to the State in this perspective will not be spent and lost. Minister Bandelli, of course, the drawing of European funds falls under your purview, but it is not only you who are responsible, but it should be the whole government's approach, and I would be happy to hear from the President of the Government about this subject in order to devote a little more time to it – so far we have not heard of it. That is why, of course, we will wait for these 30 days in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to draw up a plan to accelerate the absorption of European cohesion policy and to present it to us in the National Assembly. For this is our common future, it is our citizens and our citizens, and it is a better life for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Emissary Group of the List of Marjan Šarca, Igor Pecek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u45	Dear Presidents, colleagues, colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Government! In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca, we assess that the proposal for a recommendation on drawing on European cohesion funds is welcome and well-meaning. As such, we also support it with the aim of accelerating the use of funds. We also agree that we are currently lagging behind in obtaining funds during the current programming period, but we do not believe that the situation in this area is as critical as it wishes to be shown. The statement made by a member of the European Court of Auditors, Mr Sam Jereb, can also be interpreted in several ways at the time of the submission of the annual report to the President of the National Assembly – we believe that it does not show the whole picture, and it probably also encouraged the convening of today's meeting, which is of course nothing wrong. It is right that we discuss these things, discuss them together and look together for the best solutions. It is also true that EUR 2.1 billion has already been allocated to the ministries for which they conducted public tenders and concluded co-financing contracts with selected contractors. There are 310 million requests for reimbursement from the EU treasury to the Slovenian budget at this time, which is not much, but we have also heard today that 174 million will be added here by the end of the year. If we make a comparison of what we like to do, with the previous programming period, when the realisation was in the same time period of 30%, today we are talking about a worse reality, which is only 21. However, we must not forget what has already been said today that, even in the previous period, we have been able to absorb almost all the funds that have been earmarked for this in the relatively low initial realization. That is why we have also been one of the more successful countries. We would also like to point out, however, that since Slovenia joined the European Union in 2004, when it became eligible for European cohesion policy funds, Slovenia has created a net surplus according to the EU budget. We have received more from the European budget than we have paid for it. We can also explain this in different ways. What better way to be a net payee or a net payer? The exceptions are only 2007 and 2008 when Slovenia has experienced a net deficit in relation to the EU budget. Many questions arise when we break down the causes of the current situation. First, why was it decided that an existing information system had been used during the transitional period, which we knew was not in accordance with EU regulations? How is it that the new e-MA information system still occurs in communication between systems? Also: What is the reason why Slovenia did not have an accreditation system in 2015-2016, which was adopted only in December 2017? In the light of the recommendation set out in the Group of the Letters of Marjan Šarca, we support the proposal. We call on all actors working in the process of acquiring European funds to channel all energy towards the realization of the common objective that the Republic of Slovenia also obtains this funding. We expect an effective plan to accelerate the absorption of funds with clear responsibilities, concrete measures and precise deadlines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u46	Thank you very much. The Group of Social Democrats, Dr. Milan Brglez, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected and respected! There is no debate on European cohesion funds for the Social Democrats and it will never be just a debate on the numbers and amounts transferred from the European to the Slovenian transaction accounts. The debate on the funds from the EU budget, to which we contribute and derive funds from it, and therefore is as much as Slovenia's budget, is in fact a debate on Europeans and European identity. The European Union and its members have traditionally focused their efforts on building European institutions, while policy has neglected to strengthen the European identity of citizens. In this regard, the talk is about a democratic deficit within the European Union or even about a Europe without Europeans. If national ownership of citizens is still inherent to individual Member States, European identity is a matter of ethical decision. The European identity is not born from more or less abstract values and myths on which classical nationalism rests, but is based on the specific advantages of membership in the European Union, which must be felt at all levels, especially among citizens. The European Cohesion Fund, which finances projects that contribute to the more equitable development of countries and regions from the common budget under the principle of European solidarity, should therefore be seen as the most tangible expression of the benefits of membership in the European Union. We know that the European Union is best approached by projects in their local environment – from infrastructure projects to softer content – supported by funds from the European Union budget and which have a positive impact on the quality of their lives. Of course, the fact that European cohesion funds have an impact on citizens' belongings and feelings is well-aware, and unfortunately, the proposer of the extraordinary meeting and the proposal for a recommendation we are considering is also taking advantage of this. In the National Assembly, we have also debated several times, on the basis of well-meaning questions and warnings from the Social Democrats in the past mandate, the difficulties in drawing on European funds in moving from the previous to the current financial perspective. Despite assurances from the then minister and former Prime Minister, these problems have not been resolved after more than a year and a half. The SDS, on the other hand, in its well-known manner on the issue of drawing on European funds and the problems it has long been alerting to, is now turning it into a first-class pre-election theme. Before the local elections, he appeals to the feelings of local communities and people to incapacitate the coalition's inability to do something as self-evidently and in advance as European cohesion funds. It may also count on the European sentiment in public to benefit from other forms of solidarity and common European values that are not close to the right policy options. [[Incomprehensible]] We will support the proposal for a recommendation because European cohesion funds are far from on their own and because we are all responsible for their effective acquisition and consumption. If there is a phase in which withdrawals or drawbacks occur, budgetary planning and ensuring compliance with the provisions of our Constitution, as well as the implementation of the basic projects and development objectives that we have set ourselves not only as a coalition for the 2018-2022 term, but as a country. Respected and respected, we have made a clear commitment to the Coalition Treaty to accelerate the activities and preparation of projects to more effectively draw European funds from the 2014-2020 financial perspective, which is currently at EUR 508 million and 17% of the available funds. The first urgent step towards meeting the coalition commitment is to draw up an action plan to draw on the existing perspective on the basis of a recommendation that is very likely to be adopted today. It is unacceptable that delays in obtaining reimbursements from the European Union would endanger projects that have already been approved or are in progress, with which there are project operators, jobs and benefits for end-users. It is particularly unacceptable, however, that a country and its citizens should be placed in such a position by an ineffective information and communication technology. For all these reasons, we will support the proposal for a recommendation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u48	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. The speaker has the floor. Susanna Pretty Chimenko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u49	Thank you so much for the word. I would like to start by thanking everyone for their views and also for the unanimous support of all parliamentary parties in our report. However, perhaps we would like to point out a few more things before we proceed with our debate. The Minister's initial statement was that we will draw as much of the resources as possible; I propose that we perhaps say that we will draw all the funds in full, that is our goal. Not as successful as possible, but as successful as possible, we are, after all, very united here today, as far as these issues are concerned, and I think there is no doubt about this issue here. There have been a lot of problems where there are problems, some of them yourself, some of them have been exposed today in the very opinions, I believe there will be a lot of them by the Members, but whatever, what is important is that you personally at the Ministry know what those key problems are. We all know the objective, we must draw all the resources, and now you have the task of writing as concrete a plan as possible, how this objective will actually be achieved together. I speak together — why? Because I believe that in some way, by unanimously supporting this recommendation today, we also want to help you. We are aware of the number of coalition parties, and you are ministers from various political options, sometimes it is difficult to reach an interdepartmental agreement, and with this you will always have a plan, you will be able to say: “Look, we promised the National Assembly that by then and then we will do this and that.” And I believe that such a plan, which you will present to us within 30 days, will somehow help you with your personal further work on your department. It has been highlighted among the views that we have very well absorbed financial resources from the past financial perspective. We agree here, and we want the same in terms of the existing perspective, but, of course, we should not forget that we are already preparing for a new financial perspective, and you will also have a number of activities in your department or already have. We can't sleep in this area either. For quite some time, quarterly reporting on drawing has been ongoing here in the National Assembly, and we also welcome this in the Slovenian Democratic Party and expect this to continue. It has also been pointed out that there is still some important control here. I think that control of European funds alone is quite concrete – those who are recipients know it very well – not only by our institutions, but also by the European Union. So I don't think there's anything to be afraid of here. And if the funds are not used for the purpose for which they have been allocated, these funds must be reimbursed. This is what many congregations know because they have faced with such a problem. It has been said by Member Trčko that we must not deceive ourselves that the funds will be drawn to the end – yes, it is not necessary if we do not do so as is necessary, nor does it necessarily mean that we will fully draw on these funds that are actually available to us. It is not just that if we are able to absorb 3.2 billion euros, we will get it in any case. It's not that simple, we just have to do concrete things so that it can actually happen. It was also highlighted: net payer, net payee. We all know the principle we have in the European Union. We are in the single market, we have the principle of solidarity, which means that those countries that are economically developed, in the European budget, in some way our common budget, pay substantially more than the other countries. Let's say countries that are net payers, which means they give more than they get out of it. This is Germany, this is now the United Kingdom – in the new financial perspective of course it will be no more – then there are France, the Netherlands, Italy, Belgium, Sweden, Austria, Denmark, Finland, Luxembourg, Cyprus and Malta. These are the countries that actually put more into the European budget. Why? As already highlighted, we have the principle of solidarity, which means that these more developed countries are helping other countries. In this way, we have this very purpose to reduce the differences in development between Member States and, of course, between individual regions. We are talking here about cohesion regions, we have two – Eastern and Western regions in Slovenia. We know that our Western region is almost on average in the EU, 97%, this average is reaching, while we know that we have an eastern region in Slovenia, which is only 67%. It has also been highlighted: negotiations for an existing financial perspective, that the desire for two separate operational programmes was precisely from this point of view and for this reason because we have a very different development in Slovenia. We have, we can say, a generally developed Western region, but mostly at the expense of the Central Slovenian region, which, as such, is the only one that is actually above the European average, and we have an East, where, as already stated in my introductory words, some regions do not reach 50% of the European average's development, which is of course a disaster. This was precisely why we wanted two separate operational programmes at the time. Personally, I think that this is entirely appropriate, that this should be considered in the future, because a number of problems could probably be solved in this way. Things would have been different at the beginning. Another major problem in Slovenia is what other countries do not face, other countries have provinces, they have this second level of local self-government, and, of course, many things in the field of European funds simplify. I believe that you are in a given situation like that of Slovenia, which has 212 municipalities, which I personally very much welcome.It is a criticism that we have so many small congregations, but I know that since we have individual small congregations there we have achieved significantly higher development than in the past, and of course I think it is right that this remains so in the future. [[…]] And we're running out of intermediate levels, and these are the provinces. And if we had provinces in Slovenia, it would also be significantly easier for European funds themselves. Most of the projects would be negotiated at the provincial level, run from that side and would simply have significantly fewer problems in the ministries themselves. It was also said that the situation in the field of drawing is not catastrophic – well, I still estimate that unfortunately still, we know, only what we actually get back into the Slovenian budget counts. We have not received enough so far, and I therefore think that this is catastrophic, but if this changes very quickly, of course we will be extremely happy, this is also our intention to convene this meeting. We were told that this was a preeminent topic — far from it. This is a subject we can talk about, I don't know, every month because it concerns all of us. We are talking about big money, about 3.2 billion euros, and I see that we are in agreement on this, and that we really all want to draw these funds and channel them into development, so I also see no reason to open up this topic at any time. If this is the time before the elections right now, I don't know, maybe there'll be another time. And maybe some other parties can open up a lot more pre-election themes – because I believe that citizens and citizens may not even be aware of the importance of European funds, or how things are going in the allocation of these funds at all, so that they can actually influence their decision now. I will say again: I truly welcome the fact that we agree that you will support these recommendations. However, I appeal to the Minister to present, if possible, what concrete measures he intends to take today. I believe the talks in the ministries have already taken place and will continue. Things need to be very concrete, where there are more problems. They've been open to each other, maybe a little less, but anyway, be as specific as you can be. If not today, because you may not yet be able to be, surely within the time frame of that bad month, when we will also consider this plan at a meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u51	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! It is right that we are discussing this subject, because it is obviously problematic, we have quite a problem in this area in drawing on funds. Regardless of what the elections are ahead of us, it is right to discuss this regularly and also to pursue progress in solving this problem, or whether we are successful, more successful, or making progress in drawing on European funds. The proposer has prepared a very good overview of the situation in this area, which of course is not good. This is what we have all identified, and that is why we have also announced that we will support these recommendations. Of course, we need to find out where those obstacles are. I do not agree to say that the European Commission is guilty, too complicated procedures – yes, they are, but if other countries are able to pump more and faster, it is said that these obstacles are not so great that we cannot do this. However, I often wonder whether we have qualified, qualified professional teams, or whether every government is working on this exchange regardless of whether people know the area, control these things, or not. That is why people’s knowledge, experience, and success are important. We can have a new election soon. Yes, you can. And in doing so, this must not be an excuse for us not to continue to draw on funds successfully and wait for the new government when the machine will roll again. That is why we need in all areas, where there is a lot of money, especially professional teams, professional teams that work successfully regardless of who is in power, whether we are before the elections or after the elections. I can refer to the words of mayors with whom we often meet in Novi Slovenije regardless of customer affiliation. I have often heard that the Government has been too slow, the call has long been gone, they did not know which direction to prepare the projects, then the mayors' comments that we were not successful enough in the negotiations to negotiate too little resources for infrastructure, too for soft projects. We know that certain regions in northeastern Slovenia are also lagging behind in infrastructure, so we still have a lot of work and resources. We also know that in the past the municipalities have been very successful in drawing on European funds, that their projects have also contributed to economic growth in the country, so it is not possible to ignore the demands of the mayors or their proposals, and it is also necessary that they have good support in providing them with good information and then we will all be more successful together. The fact is that infrastructure in Slovenia is not in the best condition, although we have already done a lot since we are still doing something, but we still lack many roads, many sewers, especially in small rural municipalities. So there is a lot of work on infrastructure, and it would be a real shame not to spend what we have at our disposal. The overall objective of all of us is, therefore, to ensure that the country and the municipalities have good projects, useful projects, those we need, those that will be most helpful to the development of the country and, of course, to use the funds we have at our disposal from the European funds. It is therefore right to discuss this. I am sure the Minister has heard that he will do his utmost to see progress in this area. I expect that our next debate will go this way, that we are making progress and that we are more successful than ever.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Andrej Šushmelj has the word and prepare for Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u53	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Although the situation in the area of European funds is not as it should be, we cannot agree with the sign that this is a catastrophic situation. A poor condition would be a more appropriate term and even more unreasonable delays. It is not that we do not know these European funds to draw on. The motioners refer to Mr Sam Jereb, who later declared that his statement was a matter of interpretation. Those are his words. This does not mean that we are trying to ease the situation that our Minister Marko Bandelli has encountered in the Alenka Bratusek Group, but it is still important to say that it is not 3 billion that we do not know how to make use of if we have 2 billion and 100 million Euros of signed contracts. So these things are in progress, but unfortunately with too much delay. Here I have to agree with my colleague Horvato of New Slovenia, who said: time is money. Lost time also means lost money. I'm extremely hurt when I hear, not just here, in this ministry, but also on a number of other people, that the problem is over and over again, over and over again, information systems. I think I also heard this on the Justice Committee, mentioned at the Defence Ministry. Slovenia has serious problems here, planning information systems, because the government is obviously the right match, each ministry is solving it in the way it knows and knows, and the consequences are what we are looking at now. I have no doubt that our Minister Marko Bandelli will be part of the task. Those who talk about 30 days should consider that things are moving from day to day. As far as I'm aware, there's already a new director of the government's information system. There is no shortage of these European funds, but there is no delay, and the Ministry is tasked with certifying €174 million by the new year, the primary task of our Minister Mark Bandell, and I am sure it will be a match. But this is the cause of the information systems, and this one's in the air for all of us. If we re-suscitate the information problem here at one ministry and do nothing to systematically solve it in different departments, then the fire-fighting voluntary society will appear at another ministry, and the fire-fighting telefires created by underestimating the information needs for the normal functioning of the government authorities will be extinguished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Boris Doblekar has the word, and Jani Prednik is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u55	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. And a nice greeting to Minister Bandelli with his fellow Members and all Members of Parliament! Today's extraordinary meeting is very important, perhaps one of the most important, especially because we know that the topic is European money, cohesion funds from which Slovenia can acquire in its development. At first, I may simply say that it is necessary to put my hand to the heart and say that it is not all the responsibility for such a bad or catastrophic situation of drawing such funds to the government or to that minister, we know that this has been taking place for quite some time from the previous two governments. It is worrying, however, that this new government is made up of ministers and representatives of previous governments. I hope that Mr Bandelli will draw a different line and will be more successful in drawing in the future than we have received information such as has been pumping so far, up to 30. This year's 9th annual data on the use of European funds are indeed worrying. We have warned this in the Slovenian Democratic Party and I am pleased that other Members and Members agree. We are in the fifth year of the financial perspective, the data have already been presented, but perhaps I would like to quote or quote the President of the Court of Auditors, Mr Vesel, as he said at the Commission's meeting to oversee public finances. We usually take the Court of Auditors very seriously, and these words usually also have weight. I quote what Mr. Vese said, President of the Court of Auditors: "We have a very poor use of European funds. We have paid 9.2% less to the budget than planned, but we have received 58% less from the European Union budget than was planned in 2017, and we have been very close to the net contributor's status in the European cash register. Only 9 million of us separated from this privileged status, if I can be a little cynical. Why so much less? Since we had very poor structural funds, 91% less than planned and 61% less from the cohesion fund. The planned surplus from a European perspective was more than €505 million and the surplus realised was €9 million.” So little more with the data, and that's accurate. However, I will continue to see difficulties in drawing on European funds mainly on the part of the country. We know that municipalities also draw on funds, and some are more successful than others. Here, too, it might be possible to discuss many things, the question of why some congregations get to these funds rather than others. I'd like to focus here on the plastic case from Zasavje for the show. I come from the congregation of Lithium. Before that, Zasavje is on the 43% average of the European Union and is one of the less developed regions, although only the municipality of Lithium is considered as a Ljubljana region and is “developed”. We built a social security center, a home for older citizens, in the municipality of Lithium years ago. We applied for the invitation to tender and, of course, hoped for the funds. This home for older citizens, which should have been built by the state, has worked hard because the capacity was too small, but we built it with our own resources and we hoped from the country 7 million euros. We signed up for the invitation, but we got nothing. And that's the data, that's the sad part about drawing on these funds when the municipalities want money, and they don't get it in such important projects, because at the state level things get so complicated that they probably don't understand them anymore, those who do. In dividing these funds, there is a lot of red tape, a lot of unnecessary red tape, then it gets complicated so that it doesn't even get out of it, the conditions change, and we run into it to change the conditions, then there comes the politicisation, and we're there and there's no assets. These European funds, which have driven the development of both countries and municipalities, should urgently come to us and we are not aware of the importance of these funds. I believe that Minister Bandelli, given that I have listened to the government's views earlier, will make an effort to ensure that these funds come faster, even though our proposal is to draw up an action plan for greater pumping within 30 days. Let's hope this plan is prepared. If I just come back for a piece, for example, which I mentioned earlier. There are a lot of projects in our Lithuanian congregation, and there are plenty of things that need to be done, and there is no means for this. We know from these budgets that the municipalities themselves are weak, that the European funds from the tenders are not obtained. We have degraded areas such as the landfill of hazardous waste Rakovnik, the semi-closed mine Sitarjevec, we have a flooded area from the last floods, from the last storms that have completely destroyed many villages and places, and today people cannot even reach their facilities, which is very sad. At Vach, at the Tolstem Summit, people simply don't get to their facility after a month and a half, almost two times, and the matter is not settled, no one from the country comes to see, no one is interested. The situation on the ground, we see, is truly catastrophic. You mentioned before soft projects, hard projects. We know that from soft projects, citizens themselves do not have much or do not have, from hard projects, but this is infrastructure, of course, which is essential, particularly what we all need today. We know the roads are the basis today. Without good roads, there will be no development, no good will in people, so we should draw on and invest in such projects. Not everyone has water, not all of them, but a lot of household drinking water, but there is no means for it. At the hearings, at the hearings of the ministerial candidates, where I asked questions about these things and tried to gain an opinion or position of candidates, this was positive many times and we heard: “we will try”, “we will try”, “is a good proposal”, “know why not”, but of course without money it will probably not work. It is therefore imperative to accelerate the use of European funds and to do something not only to speak. Above all, interdepartmental coordination is also needed, and we have often heard that this coordination between ministries is insufficient. I hope that after this meeting today, after these warnings, the Government will seriously consider and also take some measures to address this systemic problem. The minister also mentioned field offices. Our Member commented – I am also interested in when these offices will start to work or whether it will be some mobile office that will go through the field, how this field office should look. “We will try,” says the minister. I believe that they will try, but I really want to know whether this will be real, because maybe it's not a bad idea, and maybe people, congregations, regions, have some of it, so that this whole thing turns out faster. I would also like to know if your proposal for field offices is supported more widely in the government. You say: "174 million European funds will be reimbursed this year," and you will try. I also want to know how and in what way, specifically, exactly. Finally, I call once again on and ask Members and Members to support or support this Proposal for a Recommendation concerning the drawing-up of European cohesion funds for the financial perspective 2014-2020. And maybe we could talk a little bit more about this perspective, and lately we know that we have a lot of meetings and discussions on perspective 2021-2027, which we are all already eagerly preparing for, and we know that we do not even have a lot of things arranged in this. Let us therefore focus on the efficiency of drawing on this perspective and, on behalf of all citizens, especially the unemployed, those on the threshold of poverty, pensioners, firefighters, societies, underdeveloped regions and municipalities, but let us start to work as hard as possible on how these funds will be obtained, so that we will draw on everything, not only what we can or will try to do, but that we will draw on everything that belongs to us. And this money, this money then we use through smart, good calls, life calls without red tape, without complications to make our own work difficult, and we use it for better roads, plumbing, nursing homes, kindergartens, schools, in short for everything we've talked about, sports facilities, water treatment, degraded areas and so on. I hope that this meeting today will make one contribution, that the Government will only realise that this is a serious situation, that the situation is alarming and that they will first adopt this 30-day action plan, which we all look forward to. Thank you very much for your words, and perhaps later, if the Minister can give me an opinion or an answer to my discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Jani Prednik has the word to prepare Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u57	Vice President, thank you. Minister with a team, nice greeting! Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In general, I do not believe in certain coincidences and there is no coincidence that the SDS convened this meeting at this time. We need to look at the context of this debate, on 18 November, local elections will take place in all Slovene municipalities, and the SDS has tabled a request to convene this extraordinary meeting on 26 October, under Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly must convene this meeting within 15 days at the latest, so that this is essentially a very good tactical move by the proposer. There's really nothing new about the request for a reference. We have already pointed out these acute problems in the previous term, and this coalition would not have written on page 13 of subsection 3.4 if it did not know or pretend not to know about these problems. Sustainable and stable public finances as a basis for the functioning of the State of Action, I quote: "We will accelerate the activities and preparation of projects to more effectively draw European funds from the financial perspective 2014-2020." What's most important right now is what we learned from this story, whether we've learned something and where we're going from here. I am a self-educated economist, and this principle of economics is not foreign to me; it is very close to me, even in the use of public money. However, some things have to be said here. The lowest price may not be the only and main factor in the selection of the provider which is expected to be very complex for the managing authority and with the other two IT systems linked to the computer system. If the criterion is only the lowest price, not the ability of the tenderer to produce a system that is transparent, which minimizes the possibility of human failures, but at the same time functioning and effective, then the tender can in fact be much more expensive than a few thousand or a few hundred thousand euros and the country exposes a much higher risk than if the system were good. The question is whether a system of drawing on European funds at EU level could be made less complex. There's probably an answer, yes. However, it is necessary to start with one another, to avoid unnecessary additional bureaucratic obstacles which, following the experience of applicants and project operators, arise from the application to the reimbursement of these funds. In the short term, it is crucial for the European Commission to submit claims for reimbursement in due time so that the money from the approved projects would not be lost to the country from which these projects are implemented. On the basis of the Government's response and the recommendation of the National Assembly, which we are adopting, we also expect the Government to draw up an action plan within one month to include measures to ensure the effective absorption of funds and to remove further delays in payments for the current financial perspective. If we look at the available data as well as the table provided by the SDS party, then we can see that local communities in the name of European cohesion have managed to obtain very different amounts of funds, nominally or in view of the number of inhabitants, which is on the one hand an indicator of the performance of the mayors and mayors in individual municipalities. Here let me point out my Koroška, which has been very successful in obtaining European funding for projects in the past financial perspective, which has already been concluded. 27.6 million euros were approved and 26.8 took advantage of it, which is more than a 97% share. Here I should also point out some of the municipalities run by the mayors of the Social Democrats and are among the most successful in drawing on these funds. These are: Bovec, Podvekka, Radeč, Radlje and so on. More than a certain amount of funding to draw on money just to draw on it, it is important which projects have been financed with it and for which key development projects have not been able to obtain funding, but could be financed from cohesion, structural or other funds and the mechanisms offered by the European Union. The fact is that the Cohesion Fund is intended to promote a more equitable development of EU countries and regions, which means that it aims at economically less developed countries and regions as well, and that the Republic of Slovenia is no longer fortunate since its accession to the European Union. In this way, within the framework of cohesion, the future financial perspectives will, unfortunately, provide significantly less money for our country. Among the larger net contributors to the European budget, there are even aspirations to reduce or eliminate cohesion funds, and at the same time the European Commission is no longer inclined to finance so-called hard-line infrastructure projects, but tends to develop softer content because some infrastructure facilities across Europe, built with European money, have proved to be weak or remain empty and are not used. If we look into the future for a while. Large opportunities are opened through cross-border regional projects. Here, let me say that no one will finance the building of a border wall, which is probably what one part of this national assembly would like, but also the desire of partners on the other side of the border for cross-border regional integration and cooperation for the benefit of both neighbouring regions and countries. The case is in Austria's Koroška and Koroška. Austria's Koroška strongly, perhaps even more unfortunately, supports the construction of a third development axis that would have a major cross-border development impact and other joint projects. I have already mentioned on my own on the Committee on European Union Affairs the great potential that I see in accordance with the EU Investment. This is a fund that will, inter alia, replace the current Juncker Investment Fund, which will provide, inter alia, EU guarantees for the construction of sustainable infrastructure of EUR 11.5 billion. There can't be an excuse that something can't be done and that something can't be done. In the framework of the existing instruments, we may run against the wall, and a host of others are available, which we can use with knowledge, ambition and perseverance for the development and well-being of people. We use this money to build friendly buildings for people and so on, and here I expect a little more involvement from the current current European Commissioner, and I suggest that, rather than some things that do not concern her, she is working on how to help the country with more of these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u58	Thank you very much. He's got the word Gregor Perich, get the Mags ready. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u59	Thank you. Good-bye, everybody! In the SMC, we cannot agree with some of the statements we have heard today and in the last few days about the use of European funds, because these statements are in many ways biased and report on the drawing on a superficial basis. The financial perspectives last 7 plus 2 years, which means that there is more than 5 years to the end of the period of eligibility for drawing from the assets of the current perspective. Government representatives have already explained this overlap of these two years, which has led to a delay in drawing in the new perspective. In SMC, of course, we expect Slovenia's results to be positive despite concerns at the end of the financial perspective and that Slovenia will draw on all the funds. Also in August 2011, this was in the middle of the previous financial perspective, an urgent meeting of the competent committee was convened at the initiative of the opposition party and today we see that Slovenia has been successful in drawing on funds under the financial perspective 2007-2013. To date, it has absorbed 99% of the available resources and is expected to reach 100% by the end of the year. We therefore expect the same results in the SMC at the end of the current financial perspective, and we believe that the competent minister will pay a great deal of attention to ensuring a more optimal information system and, consequently, to the efficient and accelerated use of European funds, which he also pointed out as the main objective at the hearing before the competent parliamentary committee. Let me mention that in the government under the leadership of Dr. Mir Cerar, by speeding up the absorption of Slovenia's funds from 19th place, came to the 4th place and that among the 8 Member States that are until the end of the period, this is the end of 2015, has managed to draw up all available resources. European funds were the move that accelerated economic development in Slovenia. Out of a total of €3.2 billion of available European funds, Slovenia has drawn on good two-thirds of all available funds by 2023, and these funds have long-term impacts on the quality of life of our people. By mid-June 2018, more than 330 projects, programmes or calls for proposals with a total of €2 billion with common objectives: GDP growth, raising living standards and, above all, new jobs had already been supported by European funds. In the area of transnational programmes, Slovenia is one of the most successful Member States of the European Union and has been classified in the last year as Germany, France and Italy. More than 300 Slovenian project partners participate in more than 190 projects with a total value of €51 million. And given that the contribution of Slovenian funds to the total budgets was around 1%, i.e. 1.6 million euros, success is exceptional. In the SMC, we also pay particular attention to European funds in our programme. We are committed, and we will continue to do so in the future, to ensure that Slovenia remains a net recipient of funds from the European Union and to continue to effectively draw on EU funds. At the same time, in the SMC, we are also pleased that this recommendation has made a broad political unification in some way, as it will facilitate the work of the competent minister and at the same time send a message to all other ministries to make every effort to ensure that the drawdown takes place effectively. However, I cannot help but avoid touching the recent referendum in the municipality of Jezersko, so last Sunday, where, with a smaller administrative measure or correction of a 500-metre line between the municipalities of Jezersko and Kamnik, they would achieve the right to an additional 20 million funds. Means to serve both cross-border cooperation and the Central Slovenian region. At the same time, let me also point out that these are precisely the areas that have been most affected in recent storms and would certainly have come in handy. Unfortunately, this slight change is due to the fact that Slovenia or the Central Slovenian region will be deprived of this 20 million because it is certainly a damage and it is not the right path. European funds must not be the subject of some internal political games, overplay, and I am therefore pleased that we are united in this today and that we recognise the importance of European funds and their effective use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u60	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, prepare the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u61	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I am convinced that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have rightly submitted a request for an extraordinary meeting and for an urgent meeting on the drawing-up of European funds. Today's debate, as well as the debate on the parental committee, has also shown that drawing on European funds is not effective. I would absolutely like to deny that the submission of a request for an emergency meeting concerning the drawing-up of European funds by the Slovenian Democratic Party is the result of local elections. That's not true. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already pointed out the problem of drawing on European funds in the previous term when there were no elections. We have also convened an extraordinary meeting on several occasions, but the then government of Mira Cerar has not listened to our recommendations, to our proposals, and today this calvary of European funds is continuing. I personally appeal to the Minister because he was also at his presentation, hearing one of the key reasons that he will do everything to make the European funds better. We can certainly see that drawing on European funds at a given time is not the best, and we can see that it is bad. Above all, I appeal to the Minister to find responsibility. I am convinced that the poor use of European funds is not only due to the problem of the information system, as has been stated many times, but that there are probably consequences elsewhere. I am convinced that in this recommendation, which we have made in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and I am pleased to note that the coalition has supported our recommendations on the home working body, I expect you to support them today, and that the Government will be able to provide Members and Members with a concrete plan within 30 days to accelerate the absorption of European funds and that the Minister will try to resolve all these problems in some way. Given the presence of the Minister with the team today, I would like to receive information if this information can be obtained, how much resources have been used to maintain this information system and how much resources are allocated – this seems important to us to see – and how it is now with the establishment of this information system. The fact is, in the second financial perspective, Slovenia has more than EUR 3 billion, that European funds are an important source in the Slovenian budget and that we draw more European funds, and the burden on companies and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia on the other hand may be lower. I am convinced that European funds are being drawn up. Undoubtedly, the first Janša government, the mandate of 2004-2008, when the main problems also arose from the time before the government was taken over and the European funds were poorly drawn, so that some project-based approach to drawing on these funds could result in an excellent outcome at the end. Throughout his presentation, the minister himself admitted that pumping was not the most successful, that it was not the best. However, he may have surprised me only at the hearing when I asked him if he would replace one of the European resource users, but he said he would not intervene after any exchange. Given that he has been a minister for quite some time, I would like to know if he has changed his mind or if he will find that there is also a need for changes in the ministries responsible for drawing on European funds. Once again, I note that the draw must benefit Slovenia, because this is also an important source of budgetary revenue. On the one hand, I am pleased that the coalition has also come to realize that drawing on European funds is not appropriate, that it is not effective and that these recommendations will also be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Above all, I am convinced that the Government of Mir Cerar is primarily responsible for the poor use of European funds and for the coalition, the then Social Democrats, DeSUS. These parties are also in this coalition today, and I expect you to be sober and to do everything in your power and to be supported by these European funds as much as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, prepare for Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! Yes, indeed, drawing on European funds is a problem, which we have also pointed out in the past mandate. And yes, it's true that we were also in the coalition, but we warned about the problems, but we didn't solve it. We have entered the new perspective, I will say, with great steps and great hopes the whole Republic of Slovenia, because we also have a lot of resources. But over this programming period, it is important to note a number of changes in the design and use of these European cohesion policy funds, which seek to achieve greater focus on results, increase impact, finance the European Union and thus increase efficiency through the successful and consistent use of these available European funds. Of course, European funds are intended to address the differences between regions. The question here is whether these funds have eliminated this. Of course, the economic and social situation in each region varies greatly. There has been a significant improvement in many areas, but in some areas these differences have increased further. I certainly believe that no region should be left behind. I would particularly like to highlight our Eastern region. In these years, the Eastern region has not developed enough since we have drawn on the funds or as we would all expect together. In order not to be confused, even in the Western region, which is more rich and developing, there are also areas and areas within each area that have not evolved in accordance with all the guidelines. When we talk today about the effectiveness of drawing on European funds, this measure of success is usually crucial. Many data on this show how much of the available money we have been able to obtain for projects as a country. These are nudity figures to assess how good we are in the preparation of projects to ensure European co-financing of projects. Today there was also a lot of talk about the non-operation of information systems, which, of course, serve to control consumption and to review the state of the project. I will not discuss this because we all know that the programmes are not okay, or that e-MA is still not working as it should be, so I would like to draw attention to another, perhaps less visible and technical area, which has a profound impact on the success of European money. The European Union allocates its resources to a number of different programmes. The common point of all is that fundamental objectives and policies, which are also being pursued, are first set at the Union level. However, the success of drawing is not always dependent on the ability of applicants to produce good project documentation, which we all know is very difficult. Even with the bolts and the spikes, the projects were falling. Of course, the prerequisite for a successful application is well-prepared projects, which, of course, must respond to the objectives set out in the European documents. It's often stuck here. European policies and priorities are changing. We can no longer talk about these projects, or we can no longer apply to different calls for proposals, when we have been successful with our projects years ago. Changes in cohesion policy force notifiers to cooperate, of course, in the selection of projects that will have a wider regional impact. It is particularly important that the new guidelines also require that projects be filled with so-called soft content. Therefore, projects are no longer just about investing in buildings, infrastructure and construction, and business, lasting effects on the community and the integration of vulnerable groups are becoming increasingly important in European projects. And if I simplify it a little bit, if it was enough to build the road, today, on the same scale, we also need to think about what its impact on the use of public transport will be on the environment. If, therefore, it was once enough to have a project which provided some villages in the municipality with plumbing and sewerage, the preparation of the project with regional impact is expected today. I'm coming from Rush, near Maribor. In this case, we can show how important it is to cooperate comprehensively in the preparation of cohesion projects, or in the previous scheme the joint water supply project for two municipalities, the municipality of Lovrenc and the municipality of Ruše was successful. Maribor also provides numerous services to its neighbouring municipalities as the centre of eastern Slovenia. Here's a case of a hospital that's the most visual. Improvements in the Maribor hospital, of course, also benefit citizens and citizens of our and neighbouring congregations. Of course, in such cases it is difficult to find opportunities for cooperation if we think, unfortunately, in Slovenia it is so that everyone prefers to process their kindergarten. The agreement on regional projects requires that we think about joint projects, broader interests, that we connect and work projects that have a broader positive foretaste. So I'm calling for more cooperation, less giggling. For example, following the adoption of programmes and the publication of documents providing a basis for drawing up, guidance should be provided for the implementation of operations and their monitoring by both the management authorities and the ministries. I also expect the ministries to connect, because, in fact, without the integration of the economy, the environment, finance will simply not work. Here too, this omen must not only be a vortex to one ministry, but to reconnect. Therefore, once again, once again in this place, the Ministry and all other ministries are involved in drawing on cohesion funds and European funds, because this is the only way we will put Slovenia in a better framework and also draw as much resources as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor. But get ready for Josie Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u65	Thank you so much for saying that. I wonder what's going on with our left governments so they can't get the money that's available. He said earlier that we would draw 99% from the previous perspective. Yeah, but why? Because of the rule of the other government of Janša for one year, and at that time, she did a great deal for all the backlogs of the government of Pahor. I haven't been in Parliament for four years, but I feel like it is because we're talking about the same thing. Once again, we refer to extraordinary meetings on the issue of drawing on European funds, as we had at the time of the previous governments, the government of Borut Pahor, who also said that everything was going well, although we were also on the drawback tail and, as has already been said on the committee, several times today, we had to speed things up. During 2012-2013, during the second Janša government, the drawback accelerated because it was clear to us that we would lose important funds. At that time, the Secretary of State Monica Kirbiš Royce, as leader of these procedures, was able to say that she had handled the matter perfectly and practically in two years, everything that had previously been delayed from the invitations and then a lot of money had been distributed, as our colleague Cernač also spoke on the committee yesterday. It is true, however, that this work was carried out professionally and that it did not make any distinctions between mayors, so it was not important whether the mayor came from SDS or came from SD. Those mayors who had prepared projects that had obtained consensus that had worked on projects before and prepared them in time also received money or were involved in all schemes. This is a recipe for successful pumping and for successful work. Further, after preparing for a new perspective or when it had begun, the government of Alenka Bratušek, and finally now in the government under the leadership of Dr. Mir Cerar, was stuck again. At first we could not decide whether Slovenia will be one region or we will have two cohesion regions, whether we invest in infrastructure or have soft content. Before that, my colleague Trček spoke, I will not use his expression of how they worked to prepare projects overnight in three days and so on. It is a great thanks that these problems are also many professors who have thought that we need only soft content, but they did not have prepared things, including colleague Trček in this and many others, but we knew that the municipalities have prepared infrastructure projects, that they have projects for sewerage, for plumbing, rehabilitation, for cleaning facilities, for craft zones and so on, but we talked about soft content and because of that, then, we changed the operational program this year and some things can be done. For two years there were no calls for congregations. Then who's to blame? It's probably Mira Cerar's government that warned us that this was happening and that it wasn't right. As I said, it was only this year that the operational programme changed so that this could be done, while the mayors kept warning that the European funds had been completely stopped from applying for tenders because there were no tenders. The next problem – information systems, we've all figured that out, which we've probably given millions again. Minister, I ask you: Have you checked what contract you signed for an e-MA program that doesn't work? Will anyone be sanctioned? Did we pay for everything that wasn't done and still doesn't work today? Minister, you are here and my colleagues have already asked quite a few questions, but there is no answer. I'm sure we won't wait another 30 days if we make recommendations today that you come up with some solutions. I assume that's how you said at the hearing that the first day you started working and taking the necessary measures to speed up the pumping. You said you knew it was a problem. Next problem. The government of Mira Cerar has forgiven a number of people who have worked on European funds. In the first perspective, we have hired quite a few people who participated in the Presidency, and Europe has also been giving money to enable these people to draw on European funds. We've done all of this. Then the government of Mira Cerar comes and forgives some of these people before – look at the little information, the questions of the Members are on this subject – and brings their own, of course, who are beginning to learn it. No one can know because things are pretty complicated. And they're learning, they've been learning for two years — and they're probably still learning — while the country's lost almost three years or more. Because these charges of these people who were fired lasted from two to three years. Ask the State's Attorney's Office – all the state lost, all the people had to take back, pay them back with interest and return them to their jobs. But of course, because their jobs were no longer available, because they were occupied, we will say capable or less capable, I don't know what kind of personnel, obviously not so capable if we can't pump them, and they're in some other jobs now. Take a look at this first, Minister. It was similar in all ministries. In public administration, in education, in agriculture. And now these people are at work, but some of them don't even do what they've been trained to do all these years. Look, in the U.S. Attorney's Office, you have all the data on how you lost all these lawsuits and filed audits and did stupid things and spent money instead of working on European projects what they were hired to do. Once again, with regard to the e-MA information system, I would ask: Has anyone answered, or have we paid everything that is in the contract, by when and by when must things be done? We have requested extraordinary meetings, warned, fellow from, I think, the SMC said that – and also some earlier – that we are gathering political points because tomorrow's elections are local. Look at all the other sessions we've already referred to on this subject. There were no elections at the time. We've only heard from the government of Mira Cerar for four years that everything runs great. Now you can even see for yourself that it does not run so great because you had to be told by your colleagues from the Court of Auditors that the situation is catastrophic. My colleague says that – and Mr Hanžek said that we will definitely draw on everything. We'll probably be, yeah, because we're just squirming and asking questions, but we're only warning you about the things that you've done to yourself. The government of Mira Cerar wrote that it will draw 930 million in 2017. You've pumped less than 400. That's all we're warning you about. We didn't make a plan for you. You're on your own and you're not sticking to him. That's the same for this year. You've planned 1.1 billion to pump, and so far we've got a good 500 million. Half less. What's our fault here? You have scissors and canvas, you have people in the ministries, you have professionals working in these areas. The municipality of Ig is one of the municipalities that has less resources. This is where we get angry with our mayor, but for a small project we gave up, the municipality gave up a role more than a year ago. After one year, she received a request for a supplement. One year it was lying there when things could have been done. I don't know, but no one had that time in their hands. In the meantime, we have already provided money in the budget for this, because if we waited for the country and for European funds, it would probably not be very soon. Minister, there are other questions that have already been asked by colleagues. Most of you here agree that the Minister prepares an action plan in 30 days. I'm still asking you, what are you going to do? How are you going to do the field office? When will they be? Where? The way? Do you agree with that? Are we gonna spend one more money to arrange something, and then it's gonna be a dead letter on paper? Have you checked the needs of the congregations, and what are the congregations ready for them? Because now, regardless of what you're saying, we have almost half a perspective ahead of us, you know that time is going very fast and we're going to have problems again in the end. Have you checked the needs of the congregations and what the congregations have prepared, projects for such calls to be signed and can be signed up immediately because they have practical matters ready? These two years, three years, when virtually nothing happened when there was no call, my friend, tell us which call it was, the municipalities were still working because they were counting on these funds and preparing projects in different areas. In short, you have replaced people, although some leaders who have already done bad work in this area still remain many. Earlier, I mentioned the Secretary of State in our mandate, Monika Kirbiš Royce, who had to leave as soon as our government was gone, you said thank you very much, goodbye, put someone else in place, and now we're doing it again, like we were going ten years ago, and things aren't running again. So I wouldn't be so squeamish as to talk about requiring an extraordinary session on this subject. It may seem irrelevant to you, but for many congregations this is the key money that the congregations receive because they barely survive or cover their marriage obligations with headship, and that is it. And everyone's waiting for European funds, but they can't because state bureaucracy, I don't know if it's too much or too little, but it's obviously not doing its job and work as it should be. So, Minister, I want you to be, well, that's possible, because I didn't say that last year, actually this year we received 495 million by August, not even from this year's projected billion 100, what you've been planning, but most of it goes to the expense of the retention from the previous perspective, from where we're going to draw 99%. [[…]] It is said that the realisation for this year is still significantly worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The word is Jože Lenart, ready to be prepared by Franci Kepa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u67	Dear President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I would like to present this subject from one point of view. In the past, I have been quite committed, operationally, to the use of these funds from European cohesion. I also have a lot of experience, as well as good, and unfortunately also negative, which I would like to briefly introduce or put into three groups. In the first group, there are many problems arising from the unreasonable administrative and non-life tendering conditions that you mentioned today. In another group, the poor skills of the applicants, this is said to have helped the country at some point in time, and too little, because if our interest is so great to benefit more, this professional assistance should be greater and better. And the third group, the information system. In this first group, I could count today 50 cases of these causes that have been, but I will only touch two for one such comparison. Look, the local community signed up three years ago, a circus of 2 million, was rejected because this electronic device was wrong, so to speak, instead of the key, it was a CD. Today, after three years, the local community received the action and will acquire the funds subsequently. We can think of some stupidity, how much money, how much costs we've spent at this time. However, one other case, where the economic operator was an economic operator, is that the company was rejected because during this period it had undergone a status transformation, that is to say from espionage to part, and was rejected by the Ministry for this reason. Again, I'll say, great stupidity and also with a complaint subsequently obtained, but look, there's been damage and extra costs everywhere. There are only two reasons why we know why he's going back here, but I could count at least 50 of them today, but it doesn't make sense. As we said, this assistance, mentioned earlier, these offices that have been, I think this is very good to have qualified assistance that would help local communities and businesses access these funds. Perhaps only on some chronological advice, what and how it must be, operationally everyone must work. And the third issue is this information system. Everyone who spoke today mentioned him. It is not just an information system at your ministry, I will talk about the information system throughout our country of administration, at all ministries, including the Ministry of Finance, including the Ministry of Health, everywhere. Here is the information system of the bar and therefore I invite you, the government as such, to check on the top of our information system. In comparison, I will tell you, last time I saw that Macedonia and Serbia were praised just from the point of view of the central approach in the field of health as very effective. It is said that Macedonia and Serbia are already ahead of us in this area. We're losing a lot of money here for this partial arrangement. And those who do this are not talking about efficiency and problems that arise. I could prove to you today that there are too many employees in these ministries, that is, in health, finance and elsewhere, precisely because these information systems are ineffective. And I personally doubt if it's not literally also a deliberate system that establishes that someone can go after it. That's what I wanted to say from practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u68	Thank you very much. He's got the word Franci Kepa, and he's getting ready for Franz Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u69	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I welcome all the participants, especially the Minister! As the predecessors have already said, there is a major delay in drawing on cohesion funds. We are also currently lagging behind the past period. There will be a lot of effort, but there will be little time available by 2020. It is available over 3 billion funds and it would be unwise not to draw on and even point out that the delay would make them net contributors in the European Union. The mayors' point is that, for infrastructure needs, there were no calls, except for the municipalities, these were obtained only by this year's amendment of the operational programme where the projects under the agreement of the regions are financed. The means are hard to draw, the problem is the stiffness of the calls. The problem is to draw on resources for sewage and water networks if we touch on specific issues. Specific examples for pumping, for example, cleaning systems - the limit of 2 000 population units has been set. This border is too high, we should set a lower limit. And most congregations are unable to apply for such invitations, and this limit should be reduced as a matter of urgency. But we should also find some other forms for the future prospects for pumping for your village systems as well. In the future, greater effort is needed to reduce differences between regions and between municipalities. It is also necessary to draw closer to smaller congregations, since the current calls are closer to larger and medium - sized congregations. It would probably have been easier to pump if the provinces or some other associations had been established and the pumping would have been carried out through them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Before taking the floor, I would remind the minister that he still has an hour left and that he could be more current in answering these questions. I suggest you decide to let me know. Here you go, Minister Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u71	Dear Members and Members! Yeah, there's been a lot of these questions, so it's also right that we're going to have to answer this somehow right now. If I start at the beginning where Mr. Duck was. But he mentions some mistakes in the team that was set up, we teams, we turn these people inside, we say, we're doing a whole new frame, we've replaced the director of the governing body. I think she's a very competent person, and we're following this new information system together, which gives us problems that I'm going to read the rest of the stuff about. Specifies the problem of drawing funds on the ILO. At the ILO, indeed, here we are aware of this problem. We know for ourselves that at pumping is really the number one percent. The problems are at the ILO and we will also find out why the problems are there. I will personally highlight this issue when I make the second round of materials. I wanted to see how they operate, who are the main actors, and at this point I know what the problems are and I would like to, and I would like to, the next time I get to them that they already tell me their solutions, because I think that's important. There was also Mr Horvath's question. Because the problems themselves are within the core. Let me just tell you something that the real problem is mainly in the ILO interior, their internal organization, problems with their internal departments, so that's what I'm going to and I'd love to check it out and maybe report it another time if it's solved. As far as the Ministry of Environment and Space is concerned. At the Ministry of the Environment and Space, I have examined some of the calls, I have seen that, above all, there are major problems in the nature sector, several times certain conditions within the tender itself, which I think are almost impossible to reach. It is said that a lot of tenders fall or that there are no tenderers for tenders because they do not meet those criteria or the criteria they require. I'd very much like to look at that for a second time. We are wondering why it is not pumped into the ILO, why there is money left, why there are no projects, real and concrete projects. Yeah, that jereb announcement, I hope it was clear. If you want, I can tell you again how the case with Mr Jereb was, these financial statements, which form the basis for the 2017 annual report of the European Court of Auditors, cover expenditure incurred during the second accounting period, we need to take care of this, which is from July 2015 to June 2016. Slovenia has not even had an accredited implementation system in this period, so there is a problem. Let me repeat that this is until June 2016. The implementation system was accredited by Slovenia in December 2016 and sent its first payment applications to Brussels. Slovenia thus confirmed, for the first time in 2016, the eligible expenditure of cohesion policy and the 2014-2020 programming period during the third accounting period. I think there was this different interpretation of Mr Jereb's report itself. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert mentioned the energy rehabilitations that were carried out at the time. That's what I'm saying. I'm saying hello today. I wish there was as much as possible. But you know, the last criteria that were, the last mechanisms, if I say how to get to the energy rehabilitation of buildings, public buildings, were set up in such a way that many municipalities couldn't even get to them because they didn't have those differences to prepare the project themselves. They gave the opportunity to companies, companies, large companies, which, in contrast to the cost of pumping, had this difference for recovery. I'm talking about the present, not yours. You had a completely different system back then. This is what I would like, if not in this perspective, but at least prepare the ground for the same system, so that it will also be in the next perspective 2021-2027, because I think it was the right system. Now those who do not know the details can be explained to him, or if someone is interested in why it was a different method. Mrs Susana Pretty Šimenka, here you ask, and others have asked about the action plan. Yeah, I'm going to show you and tell you, or I'm going to tell you right now, what he's going to look like, what is this action plan, how we imagine it. This is now one point that we are preparing, and I think that this is going to be a very good basis for us to realize what we have promised. We are preparing a comprehensive implementation review at the SVR, which will include accurate data and analyses. The key points will be as follows: the SVRK will produce a summary of the performance of the operations by sector together with a list of all the problems encountered in the implementation. Secondly, ministers shall prepare clarifications for cases where the realisation of payments under contracts does not reach at least 50%. The third point is to agree on the dates of visits to the field ministers and/or projects where implementation is not carried out in accordance with the plans. The fourth item is followed by operational meetings between the SVRK, resources and beneficiaries to address administrative problems, including the IT system. Fifth point, the SVRK, in conjunction with the IT system in November 2018, will implement, as a matter of priority, additions and harmonisation of data in the e-MA information system on the funds already paid from the State budget to beneficiaries through the old ISARR information system. The aim is to transfer at least 80% of the requests for payments, which to date amount to EUR 188 million, to the eCA certification body in November. The sixth point is that in connection with the IT system in December 2018, the SVRK will address the problems that arise on the resources associated with the payment of the beneficiary as a matter of priority. And the seventh point, what's best for me, is the field office you've mentioned so many times. And here's the thing that I've already done. This is not really a physical office that we will move in Slovenia. This is about linking, dealing with, education, presenting good practices, information, information directly to potential beneficiaries. In short, there's got to be a team of people who help people directly on the ground. Because I have noticed that the biggest problem we now have is misinformation, ignorance, poor project preparation, poor conditions. And all of this stops this pumping process, which should have been a long time higher than the percentage we have now. That's what I imagined. It's just points. From these points we will develop an action plan and you will all get it in your hands. That is why I also thank you for this initiative, because I think it is right and I support it 100%. If I keep asking about the information system. Mrs Alenka Jeraj, Marko Pogačnik and Jože Lenart asked about the information system. The application for e-cohesion is based on the European Regulations of the 2014-2020 programming period. We did not comply with this requirement with the ISARR information system used during the 2007-2013 programming period. In addition, with the use of the old system, we had constant difficulties and great backlogs in providing reimbursements to the national budget. However, the system for the implementation of the MFERAC national budget could not be extended to the level of beneficiaries. All these were the reasons why Slovenia decided to set up a new information system that will be as compatible as possible with the existing system for the implementation of the State budget. Cohesion policy in the Republic of Slovenia, as you know, honourable Members and Members, is implemented through the national budget. Regrettably, in 2016, in order to complete the process of accreditation of the system 2014-2020, implemented by the audit authority, the decision taken to apply the existing ISARR 2 system in order to implement the new system during the transitional period, i.e. until the establishment of the new system. The problems posed by the use of the old system, because it was not in line with the requirements of EU regulations, are thus addressed today. This means that payment data cannot yet be submitted to the Ministry of Finance, the certifying authority, until they are transferred from the old system to the new system and are complemented accordingly in the system. The SVRK, as the managing authority, has been doing double work in the information system for almost two years, at the same time establishing a new ISARR 1 operating system and supplementing and regulating the expenditure data paid through the old ISARR2 system. It is not a matter of delegating responsibility to computers, as mentioned in the debate, nor does it point out that the information system does not follow the needs. These are new additional cohesion requirements, these are inadequate past decisions in connection with the information system and these are complex links between systems, but we now have an almost functioning new e-MA information system, which is a link between two or three information systems, the implementation of the MFERAC operational programme, which is the implementation of the Slovenian budget and its eCA module, which is the communication of applications to the European Commission. This ensures the single entry of data into the information system and their exchange between e-MA, MFERAC and eCA systems. In communication between systems, unfortunately, there are still delays. In cooperation between systems, we find out where the errors are, whether in input data or in inadequate communication procedures. Since the system has several thousand users at different levels and is used simultaneously by several hundred users, interventions in its operation are very difficult. Nevertheless, I believe that we will soon be able to ensure the full functionality of the system. Let me also reply to Mr Pogačnik and the Member of Parliament on the level of the funds that have been earmarked for the construction of the information system. Slovenia invested €7 million in the construction of the previous ISARR system, the former. The system never worked optimally and did not provide all the necessary information. Multiple inputs of the same data into multiple systems were needed. So far, 1.3m euros have been invested in the construction of the new e-MA information system. And we believe he'll be fully operational in no time. I'm working on it myself. That, I think that's it for once, President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Minister. Susanna Beautiful Šimenka as a proponent first.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u73	Thank you so much for saying that. I am pleased that the Minister has responded somewhat to our questions, but I must say that I am extremely sad that the information system is still not working. I was kind of hoping that, from this mid-term meeting of our committee to this day, what has changed on this subject and that today we will also get positive information about our information system, in which we have actually made a huge amount of money from it, very little or more damage in the given situation than the benefits. I would like to ask you, Minister, will you claim responsibility in the field of the information system? I don't know how many years things have been going on with the non-functional information system. What are you going to do here? It was also said, in the introduction, that, of course, we only received accreditation in December 2016. Did you ask maybe your coalition partners, three of the SMC, SD and DeSUS parties were in the previous government and are somehow responsible for the fact that this accreditation was accepted so late, why did this happen only in 2016? And of course, as a result, what our Court of Auditors pointed out is that we did not draw on any European funds in 2017. As far as the field office is concerned, you mentioned that some people who will be trained will cover this area and actually operate on the ground. I wonder how many of these people are gonna be, if you already have a team, when exactly this office is gonna start working. You're going to move around the regions, by the municipalities, how do you imagine this, mobility? On your initiative, or at, I don't know, will the congregation raise any issues, invite you or this team of field offices, and then take this team to the field? Maybe some more information because I believe you've already worked it out. With regard to the action plan, you have presented some drafts, I think we will have enough time to work this out when you have a concrete and complete picture. However, perhaps I would have responded to some other things that were exposed a while ago, namely, Mr Prednik said that the SD had already pointed to acute problems in the previous term. I would just remind him that the SD was already in the coalition in the previous term, and if you've been alerting him to acute problems, I don't know why you didn't solve them at the time. Such statements really bother me very much. It was also pointed out that Slovenia is not a less developed region. If we look at cohesion regions, we have the Eastern region and the Western region. The Western region is at 97% of development and the Eastern region at 67% of development. The Eastern region is certainly among the less developed regions, as it achieves less than 75% of the European Union's development in terms of GDP per capita. Let me remind you here that the Western region in particular reached 109% of the EU's development in 2008 and the Eastern region 74%, which means that, in fact, as Slovenia, we have dropped significantly compared to other European countries. Of course, this is not encouraging. If we have reduced the differences between regions – according to the data, I think we are almost nowhere. Differences are, in some cases, minor derogations, in particular, the Sava region has gone a long way in recent years despite our European funds. More than obviously, these funds are not directed towards the right projects and not to the right areas, so I hope that you will do more in this area, too, and that the real purpose of European resources will be to reduce the differences in development between regions. To take this as the main consideration that in two or three years progress will actually be seen in this area. The former government of Mira Cerar, of course, has delayed the preparation of the basic projects that we need in order to begin to draw on individual European funds at all. I am talking about a partnership agreement, I am talking about an operational programme and, finally, a smart specialisation strategy. The acceptance of you has taken a very long time than you should. In particular, entrepreneurs were, of course, happy when some things were adopted, some strategic documents for the country. It was promised that in this financial perspective there would be a little more money to transfer science into the economy. This cooperation will be encouraged. Finally, when the first tenders came, however, all those who in some way have start-up companies, marriage companies, smaller companies, were found to have somehow come out of these tenders because only large companies could apply for individual tenders. And very similar is happening at the level of local communities. There are many projects that have already been written for the major municipalities for the municipalities. Smaller municipalities in the countryside fall out of projects. Example of infrastructure, cycling routes. Projects prepared in rural areas – specifically, municipalities throughout the Haloz region have a cycle route project prepared, but the call date is actually made for the municipalities. For some cramped settlements. On the other hand, we know that on average, however, those congregations that come from border areas are fundamentally under-averagely developed. I also appeal to you to review the existing tenders and to adjust or correct the tenders in some way also so that those municipalities that are actually under-averagely developed can also apply to these invitations. Unfortunately, Slovenia is very different and, of course, they also have different needs. There is no basic infrastructure at all, and elsewhere they are very pleased with these so-called soft projects, but that is why it has been exposed so many times at the start that we need two operational programmes for the Eastern region and the Western region. And now that we don't have it, I still appeal to you, don't ignore this area. We somehow really need to reduce the differences in the development of individual regions in Slovenia. In the media, many times ago, it was also exposed to the fact that Europe is building cities for Croats on Pelješac and not for us. And, of course, here's the criticism, when they're funding it, and we're not. And I'm curious, Minister, I'm sure you've read it where, too, if you've asked yourself why Europe doesn't fund us any of these little larger projects. Why not? Maybe it's because we, as a country, obviously, can no longer unify ourselves to even know what our strategy is and where we want to go. And now, given that a new financial perspective is being prepared, I wonder whether you already have bigger projects in place, around which you are united, and that we may be able to say from a new financial perspective about one really big project, here and here we have made good use of European funds and that perhaps Croatian media will write about some of our success, because they will say: "Well, Slovenians are now going along the path of strategic development. They know what they want." And that's our problem. But I think that I also understand the complexity of this ministry, on the one hand, you have an existing financial perspective with a thousand and one problem, you have to coordinate all the difficulties of all the different sources, of course within six coalition parties, but of course you have to prepare for a new financial strategy. [[…]] Your representatives are going to negotiate in Brussels for the funds we will receive at the time, or we will have the opportunity to draw them. Of course, this is a difficult task. Mr. Secretary, if I may, I'd still like to ask you the answers to my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u74	Thank you very much. We continue with the general debate. The word is Franz Kramar. Get Janja the Servant ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u75	Dear President, Honourable Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! I can say that this topic, the drawing on of European funds, is, of course, still necessary. I know from my experience, because I have been mayor for a long time, what European funds mean, what can be done with these funds. I must say that in the previous period, when European funds were distributed across statistical regions, it was significantly better to draw these funds than it is now when Slovenia is divided into the Eastern and Western regions. By knowing that the development coefficient in the Western region is also due to the municipality of Ljubljana itself. This coefficient is, of course, so much higher. The municipalities in the Western region were pushed aside during this period. The criteria were set according to sewage units, whose criteria none of the municipalities in the Western region could meet and collected all the money because it was the only one who had the conditions to draw these funds from the Municipality of Ljubljana. All this money from the Western region was collected by Ljubljana. That's why I would appeal, but I know that the Minister is trying and that he's going to keep trying, and I'm going to say, he's very optimistic, he's also coming from a number of mayors, so this is an operative, maybe a little awkward in his statements, but as an operative, he's very good, and also his purpose, what he wants to do in the future, is in place. Nevertheless, I think that red tape has played an essential role in all of these European funds, and one of the main roles has been played by bureaucracy. Those of us who had the opportunity to draw on these funds first invested in projects with the aim of issuing a building permit. These were not small funds, of course depending on the size of the project. After a building permit was issued, the call we applied for was followed by a bureaucratic war with dots, branches, large beginnings, and I do not know what else contributed to the possible loss of even some of the municipalities. That's why I think today's debate is on the table. It's a good thing we're talking about this. But the fact is, and I appeal to this, to prepare a system that will not be bureaucraticly wrapped up, but will be simple, as are simple systems in neighbouring countries. With us in Slovenia, we are always more papal than the pope, and I don't know why we're afraid to make any calls or documentation, and then there will be confrontations on this dossier between those who want to get European funds and those who are concerned that these funds should be used. I am convinced that the system of drawing on these funds is being simplified, and if, once again, I stress - the division into the Eastern and Western regions is not fair. In my opinion, if these regions were already divided, then the independent region of Ljubljana should be as such, and everything else would then come closer. But the previous system with statistical regions has given municipalities much more opportunities to pump and I don't know who is the one who changed it, and I am sure that this is not what Europe demanded, but that this has happened in our country, Slovenia, and that the result is that pumping is therefore bad. Once again, Mr. Secretary, good luck to you. I know that you will be able to do this, and I hope that in the future we will also speak at some meeting of the National Assembly on the sound use of European funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The word has Janja Sluga, to prepare Alexander Reberšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The Minister has already told the proponents, the debate is welcome, we are really behind schedule, with recommendations he agrees, even welcomes them on Twitter. I cannot agree with this exactly as much as was possible today in today's meeting, and in the positions of individual groups of Members. Despite what has been said, the fact remains that 2.1 billion funds have been allocated in the present perspective, that is 69%, and that it has already been contractually linked to 2 billion, that is to say 66%. These are actually things that are ongoing, where, of course, the funds have not yet arrived, but will be implemented. And these are completely different numbers from those addresses that use the word catastrophic, and I don't know any other adjectives that actually don't match the state we're in. It is, of course, a fact that 17% have been paid so far, but it is also a fact that in 2014, when the government of Mir Cerar was launched, 30% paid and that all of this was compensated in 2 years. Thus, the Government of Mira Cerar managed to make up for all the backlog in 2014 and 2015, so that, as the colleague has already said today, 99% of the funds of the previous perspective have been exhausted and by the end of this year we will have this remainder of one percent. In that perspective, we came from 19th to 4th in 2 years after the success of drawing on these funds. These funds funded over 5,000 projects and 5,000 new jobs. Now, in this perspective, we actually have five years left. Yeah, I agree, we're in the back, but we're five years old, so we're halfway there. And certain problems exist, of course, and these problems are identified by the European Commission itself. Let's just say something else. At the moment, the average drawdown rate among all European Union countries is 16%. We're at 17%. Thus, in all the countries of the European Union there are some problems, the European Commission notes them, in addition to problems with information systems, that periods may be overly covered by each other, even as the European Commission has already said a few words, the problem of red tape and so on. It is said that the European Commission will also take some measures to make it easier to draw on all countries with the same problems as Slovenia. Therefore, there are, of course, some reasons for particular panic, but of course, the Ministry must remain vigilant and, of course, devote itself to this issue. Of course, it is imperative to respond to some of the implementations that the government there is responsible for all the funds being drawn up. And the proponent also said that only what we get in the Slovenian budget counts. That's right. Since 2004, Slovenia has been a net recipient every year, except for 2 years. For 2 years Slovenia was a net payer. What do you say, what flight? That's not what the motions say. 2007 and 2008. Who then led the government? Who then led the government? [[advertising from the hall]] Tell me who ran the government at the time. Tell me. There were also some signs of content. When was the content negotiated for the previous financial perspective? When was the content negotiated for the current financial perspective? For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: Who was negotiating the contents? The one who says the content isn't okay today, the one. And if we really look at this content, it doesn't really hold what you claim when you claim that there's much more soft content and not so much infrastructure. The fact is that more than a third, i.e. more than a billion, of infrastructure projects still exist. But it is true, Minister, that we are facing some problems in terms of content. And given that in 2019 Slovenia is starting to negotiate again for the contents of the new perspective, it is only right that we are in those negotiations at that time, because you will probably be among and so all ministries, that we are paying attention to exactly what we may be missing now, when we say that we are changing the operational programme and also redirecting the resources to those content that are more prepared than others, and then we find that it is possible that exactly the content that the municipalities find most necessary to keep people waiting for them for as long as possible, and that it would not then happen that we will shift the funds to others from those areas to those areas. I myself, who deal intensively with certain things, and even in Celje against Zasavje, are, of course, anti-floating measures and broadband coverage of the area, which is particularly in rural problem. It is therefore right to point out here that even when the operational programme is being amended for the current period and, of course, in the negotiations for the next period, precisely the two areas are being given more attention, because these are the areas in which the mayors point out, and I believe that you are also aware of these problems. Of course, it is also necessary to say what are the soft content that is supposed to be such a problem that funds should be diverted to asphalt and concrete. However, if I list some of the selected projects that have been supported by European funds in the mandate of the Government of Dr Mir Cerar, they have made considerable progress. The first is the Employment Promotion Programme.The Employment Programme, which includes older people, is a person over 55 years of age and will include more than 21,000 older persons and also persons from other vulnerable groups by 2022. Then there is one project on the creative path to knowledge 2016-2020, which includes actual students and professional workers, 2 000 700 students and a thousand 400 professional workers, whose aim is to cooperate and integrate what we are more aware of each day and what we are discussing on every occasion. This is the integration of the education system and the needs of the economy. And this is the project that essentially focuses on these reconciliations between education and the economy. Then there are activities of multi-generation centres, which have opened more than 15 multi-generation centres across Slovenia. And then there is another project, decommissioning and cleaning of waste water in the Ljubljana Field aquifer area, which covers as many as 330 thousand inhabitants. And the construction of the highway between Dražanci and Gruškov, the provision of drinking water in the Suha landscape area, which enables more than 12 thousand people to drink water, then the strengthening of cross-border cooperation, even in this area you have warned some colleagues today. Here was the FRISKO-1 project, the management of flood threats and the Alps-Adria Karavanka for tourism development and Iron Curtain cycling, which is the cycling link between Slovenia and Hungary. Next project Together for Health, which develops preventive approaches to healthcare and generally improves accessibility to preventive care. Update the spatial data infrastructure to reduce the risks and consequences of the floods and so on. Once again, I stress that it is an opportunity to draw funds from this scheme by the end of 2023, so that we are now in the middle. And yes, yes, every past scheme called for a meeting on this subject, it was warned, it is right to be warned, but it is also right to operate on the right data. Minister, maybe just one more time to put it on your heart. So flood safety and broadband coverage are what the municipalities at least at the end of my day are most prominent and needing, so I really expect to pay sufficient attention to this, as I said, in the changes to the operational programme and then in the subsequent negotiations, that we will not be sitting again in four years or a little longer here, but say that we have not negotiated the contents of the framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek has the word. Excuse me, proposer, Susanna Beautiful Šimenka.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u79	Thank you so much for saying that. But here, of course, I have to respond. First of all, I would say that I believe that the distinguished predecessor is aware of when the previous financial perspective took place, from 2007 to 2013. The new financial perspective from 2014 to 2020. So I would like to ask you how much Mira Cerar's government has drawn from the new financial perspective in 2014 and 2015. This is exactly the answer to your provocation that Janša's government in 2007 and 2008 has not yet exhausted any funds. I think it's completely inappropriate for you, but that's when the financial perspective began. However, it is interesting why has the Mira Cerar government waited so long to adopt operational programmes? Why were they taking so late? And finally, you finally gave confirmation to an operational programme that was not actually confirmed in the Eastern region at all, because you subsequently made some changes without changing it in the world of the region before, because you probably, I don't know, was already in a bit of a hurry. I think it's completely inappropriate. In fact, there are five years of existing financial perspectives, the data are as they are, as we have stated, and it has been pointed out by the Minister himself, who is in fact aware of the problems, who knows about the mistakes that have been made in the past and in some ways shows the good will that he will also fix these things, which, of course, I am pleased, and that is why we are talking about this here today. However, let me remind you, yes, yes, it is, a little over 2 billion already signed contracts, but you warn or say that the financial perspective lasts until 2023. But the signing of contracts cannot last until 2023, it is only possible to implement those projects already agreed upon. So I don't know, the signature of the contract is far from being realized and the funds will actually be exhausted. And I know they're well aware of that at the SVR. You've exposed the broadband internet. What have you done in this area in the past term? There are several questions that have been sent, some of which have been done on this subject, because I am also coming from an area where they want to have broadband. Two, three years ago, it was promised that this would all be done. The project fell into the water. On this subject, perhaps the distinguished minister would be able to say more. And your government has done nothing about it, even though you mention it as important. How important that is! And I really hope that these things will be settled and that we will actually have access to some internet of normal speed throughout Slovenia, because this is, of course, the basis for everything else. I am pleased that this proposal of the Government supports, in a way demonstrating the will to move some things to a better, yet such condemnations and the spread of untruths, of course, cannot be tolerated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Replica, Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u81	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd just like to make it up to you. The first perspective lasted from 2007 to 2013. We had €4.1 billion approved, and by the end of 2011, this was the time of the Pahor government, we were told 1.3 billion. That means we were at 31%. After two years of our government, which began with a perspective and then three years of the Pahor government and two years before the end of the perspective, we were at 31%. So don't talk, but we did good or we didn't. In 2012, practically in one year and three months, we brought the matter to 99%. Indeed, things were also carried out in 2013, 2014, 2015, because projects could run longer, and contracts, as the colleague said, must be signed at the time of the perspective, rather than pretending to have plus 2 years of your own invention. The perspective is until then, and until then, you have to have things done. But things can be built to the end, or they can be done by the time they need to be. Maybe it's just about soft content. I didn't say it was wrong that there were soft contents. Problem is, we snitched and we couldn't decide what we had. And that is why we are lagging behind in all areas. But what we did have ready projects for, we didn't want to push forward and it was happening, while we were preparing soft content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Replica, Janja Servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u83	Yes, however you turn, but the fact remains the same, we all know that the perspectives last six years. Yes, but as I said, since 2004, Slovenia has been a net recipient since all but 2007 and with the exception of 2008. And that's a fact, however you turn it, just like you're turning other numbers now. My colleague Jeraiev, if you felt challenged, I didn't mean you. The proponent wrote, I hope you've read that the problem with the content that has been negotiated is in your time. You're the one who negotiated them.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u84	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Aleksander Reberšek has the word to prepare himself for the mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u85	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Speaking of drawing on European funds, it is right to say that there is 3 billion and 68 million European euros in this 7-year financial framework, this being 2014-2020. We have to add 750 million more to this, which amounts to just over 3.8 billion euros. To date, we have absorbed only and only a good 15% of these funds, some 507 million. It's hard to understand. It's very difficult to understand why. I see the key problem of the operational programme for the implementation of European cohesion policy mainly in giving priority to some soft projects, which is said to research and to studies that do not have any useful value. Slovenian municipalities and the country, as such, always and also need a lot of money for basic infrastructure projects, roads, railways, wastewater treatment, thus thinking about sewage, water supply, energy and telecommunications infrastructure, renovation of facilities and many other infrastructure projects. I think there's enough words. Minister Bandelli, it's your turn. I expect from you the implementation of today's recommendation. I expect you to roll over your sleeves, that this recommendation, which will be adopted today, will give more weight to infrastructure projects and that some municipalities will not be favoured or given priority to other municipalities. Like I said, Minister Bandelli, it's your turn to roll up your sleeves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Get Robert Pavšič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u87	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! One point is where we all agree – the funds we are discussing are in fact the only real available means of investment in local communities, and otherwise, after all, each investment is located in a local community. In short, it is an extremely important development lever that this country has. What I am about to do is, very briefly, a statement by the newly composed SD Member of Mr Brglez, who first found that, despite the assurances of the previous Minister and Prime Minister of the Government, the difficulties in drawing on European funds even after a year and a half, I quote: "they have not been resolved." Yeah, we agree. The problems have not been resolved. And this is a disaster for this country, because it is a huge developmental resource, virtually the only liquid available right now. But then how does he proceed? "SDS in its well-known manner now transforms this issue into a first-class pre-election theme." Good morning, huh?Oh, my God! What is another first-class pre-eminent topic, such as the fact that, in drawing on the main financial development source, it is seriously stuck and that, after a year and a half, the problems are not solved. Yes, of course this is a first-class pre-election theme, because it clearly shows that the current government is practically recycled the previous one with few supplements, that this authority is completely incompetent. That's something people need to know when they go to the elections. That is why this is such an important question. But I believe he doesn't like it when it's said. But he himself said that after a year and a half these problems were not solved, the problems were not solved. The State of Slovenia, through its procedures, with its own rules, with its references, with its own plan, which it has adopted, and with all the others that it has not accepted, could have accepted things complicated itself to the point that these funds are now being drained much too slowly. In foreign countries, you have developed mechanisms to speed up the use of European funds, and you have a lot of sense with us if you are doing this yourself, so that the country will see that these funds are not being used. Because this authority alone aims to strengthen bureaucracy rather than to use resources. So everything must be in a way that strengthens the country as much as possible. And that is certainly the goal of SD. But for the point added by Mr Brglez, this is a true SD Member, the debate on the EU budget, we understand the European Union as, quote, "the debate on Europeans and European identity". Yes, the party that said yesterday – this is the Social Democrats, the SD – to support an absolutely destructive international agreement of the United Nations, which sets migration as, I don't know, a goal and sets out ways of financing and actually sets migration as a human right, and this is not a human right, and it must never become a human right to understand that because it would mean the end of civilization, this party says that this is what we are discussing now, the debate on Europeans and European identities. Ladies and gentlemen, what is a European identity? This is the sum total of the identities of all nations that make up Europe as a whole. It is the sum of all cultures that make up Europe as a whole. And it's these migrations that are putting this at risk. This is said to be the case, for those who actually threaten and support this threat, now refer to European identity. This is a verbal exercise that a person can only watch. It is very clear that Europe is a mechanism that can be based on the principle of equal participation of all countries, with respect for all countries, respect for their culture and the preservation of their identity. Such a mechanism, as it has developed in financing from cohesion funds, is certainly positive, is an important development moment. But if you declare such a mechanism as - once again I quote - “the debate on Europeans and European identities”, and in the same breath you destroy this identity and the entire European civilization you are threatening, that is something that people should actually understand. That is true, but on the side of SD an important pre-election message. Because then all voters need to know that if they elect SD mayors, they will support migrants, support migration, threaten themselves, their municipalities, their settlements, their people. That's a message you said yourself. And you said something else, ladies and gentlemen from SD, that Murphy is right because there is Murphy's law on left-wings: whatever they're telling you, they always tell you about money. If the debate on the funds from the EU budget is, I quote, "in fact, the debate on Europeans and European identity" and then they fade away all those big words about human rights, I don't know what else, we listen to these falscules nonstop, it's actually a debate about money.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u88	Thank you very much. The word has Robert Pavšič, prepare for Sonibo Snow White.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u89	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Today, I am pleased that we have finally all settled together for these benches with one theme, which we all agree is necessary for us to renegotiate it and to try to find solutions. I am also pleased that there is a man in the ministerial chair who is well aware of the subject of obtaining European funds for the local community at all. As mayor, I'm sure he's well aware of this and that he's seen where the biggest problems are, so he's going to try to solve these problems in a different way. But I'm not happy that it's just before I get my word, that she's thrown herself back into the chest again, looking for some outside culprits. It's a verbal exercise. Well, if what we've heard in our positions is verbal exercise, then you, Mr Grims, are a champion in gymnastics. That's it. But this is already a matter of second debate. I expect that the Ministry, in particular in the area of the drawing-up of funds for the purposes of local communities, will come to us as soon as possible with a set of measures that will release the use of these funds as quickly as possible. I expect that different ministries will be involved in this process and that, together with the institutions, they will look for the main obstacles that are mainly bureaucratic. I'm pretty sure that's what I talked to the mayors about. And I expect that the local communities will also recognize the opportunities and prepare themselves adequately for them, because it is not always the main reason that the funds are not drawn on the side of the country, sometimes it is also on the side of the one who could use them, that is, the local communities. Whether it is not a well - prepared project or a well - prepared one, it happens that the congregation does not have the money to co-finance the share it should have. I agree, however, that many more resources are needed mainly in regions outside Ljubljana for infrastructure projects, roads, sewerage, cleaning facilities. Schools and kindergartens are a major problem in the municipalities, and we have to get the mayors here, no matter what political options they come from, against them and make it easier for them to move these infrastructures as quickly as possible, because the next perspectives will soon come, where we will no longer be net payers, but we will be net payers. Until then, all these matters need to be greatly accelerated and very operational, and above all not to be hindered by the State. Of course, soft content, employment, environmental protection, education are also important. This is very important, but if there is no infrastructure, then soft content will also resolve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Sonibo Prince has the word, which first apologizes to him for failing in his previous prediction. He'll be next, Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u91	Thank you, Madam President. I don't have a problem. I usually have a name problem more than my last name. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I must say that I am kind of glad that the initiative to convene this meeting today has come to address the issue of drawing on these cohesion funds. The SDS proposalr usually uses the requirements for these similar sessions, as we have already heard many times today, for his own media attention and the attempt to discredit this ruling suit, how incompetent and similar. However, I must admit that somehow, as I have been preparing for this meeting today, after a review of the materials, the materials for back because I am new in this Parliament, after all, and even after the answers given by the Government and the competent minister, I am convinced today that the initiative to convene this meeting has been more than in place. The fact that I will not repeat myself because today it has been in these hours, which are behind us for my taste, that there is already a substantial number of repetitions of one data that we have all heard a hundred times, but it seems that I will have to get used to it being part of the profession that I have decided to elect. Minister, what I was expecting today, and I thought it was quite honest with the Minister, is that he frankly admitted that they have a lot of problems, especially with this computer technology. The second is what I wanted to hear, but it is also a sincere desire and the intention to deal with these problems and to resolve them in due course. Finally, he promised that these cohesion funds would be exhausted as much as possible during the period. Here I have to say that I expected him to say that they will be exhausted in full, but I hope, given that he is quite a while ahead of us and that, as we have already heard last year, two billion European projects in preparation for us to succeed after the end of this period. With these problems, I would only say that I cannot somehow pass the fact that we have problems in Slovenia in the 21st century, that is to say technology that is supposed to simplify procedures has made it easier to work. That's what I'm listening to, whatever committee I'm on, yesterday on the Labour, Family and Social Committee, in the past, whoever you've been here for a long time, we've been postponing projects due to IT technology. Here we have to ask ourselves whether something is wrong with us or with the performers we choose. Last but not least, I hope that we also have these contracts and the responsibilities of the operators for the improper work done and somehow secured, which is today, I think a colleague from the SDS has already mentioned. At the hearing, Mr Bandelli, given that he was former mayor, said she, the consumer of these funds, said that the first thing he would do would be to shorten bureaucratic procedures in order to tackle this rationalisation. I believe that, as the Minister has mentioned, it is only eight weeks and that I wish him great success in doing so, because I know that this is a rakrana, what the municipalities and mayors point out is that we need to get away from today's situation when applications are being submitted in boxes and measured in kilograms that we need to bring this matter to a normal, rational level. His solutions – I welcome the team work on the ground mentioned above, especially in training. If I recall for a moment why this European cohesion policy, or funds, is the amount of these three billion. It was a means to help reduce these developmental differences between regions and to allow for balanced and sustainable regional development. Here we are – if in the first part I understood the Minister that we have a technical problem with drawing these funds – in this second part Slovenia is one special feature, namely our decisions in the long past, that we have divided this small Slovenia into 200, 212 municipalities and that some municipalities count 300, 400 people. These congregations, the vast majority of these congregations, are also listed as having no resources or understanding, as they will eventually end up in their own participation, which you must ensure for the implementation of these projects. This is more of a reflection in terms of rationalisation and integration in the future. A colleague from SDS earlier mentioned poor pumping, including mentioning the Zasav region, that we were lagging behind in development. Here it seems to me that two sentences just have to be said, namely, first that we are lagging behind as far as Zasavja is concerned, because the country has completely discontinued production in Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine over the past ten years, that we have lost several thousand jobs, not to mention the story of the thermal power plant, Lafarge and everything like that. But we are in the area of drawing on European funds at least in the previous perspective, and I think we are on the right track here. In the previous perspective, I know that at least for the municipality of Hrastnik, a smaller municipality with 9,000 inhabitants, I can give the accurate information that we were in the 13th place after the successful use of these funds. If I go back to the reasons for the problem of drawing, it's also that, in fact, if you're mayor, you can't plan and give yourself some programs that we're about to promise for these local elections. Because if you're smart, you're going to make use of these European funds, and they're going to give you what you're going to do in the next term. I can say to Hrastnik that if we hadn't gone through the reconstruction of the sewage network and the cleaning plant, where we caused a lot of bad will between citizens and citizens, because we've dug up the whole Hrastnik, but today we have this matter settled, which we probably couldn't afford with our own resources. This is also said to be important in planning, in my view, that some municipalities do not choose to do so. To conclude with a response to the debate of my colleague Grims, I am no representative of Dr Brglez, but I would only remind him that the municipalities were also recipients of European funds, Brežica and so on. Otherwise, his delusion and fear of these migrants, I think it doesn't even make sense to comment any more. In short, I conclude with this that we have been successful in the previous cohesion period. I hope that, after our engagement and, of course, the elimination of some mistakes, we can also successfully complete this priority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The word has Zvonko Černač, to be prepared by Dr. Darius Krajčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to everyone on my side, too. Initially, perhaps a few words about what the minister said at the outset. I don't know what his text messages have to do with what we're talking about today, but whatever it is, he used this session to apologize again. I must say that, as this has been done, it is not a sincere apology, it is more about protecting my own position, taking care of my own chair, and today this National Assembly could be saved for this gesture. Especially because we are reading that the Minister cancelled his Twitter account at night and abolished his Facebook profile, which means he is afraid of his own words and his own statements, which is not the best way forward for the future work of the Minister, and also does not inspire any confidence in what we are talking about today, and the influence of confidence in the fact that conditions that are not good are bad, that I will not use the term catastrophic, in the field of efficient, more efficient use of European money is being regulated. We are at the end of 2018, at the end of 2018 and today we are discussing a perspective that will end in 2020. And we all know that in these days, weeks, the next two months, the position will become concrete for the next seven years, for the period 2021-2027. If we had one normal government, then we should talk today about how, in what way, the most cost-effective way, for which projects, for which priority operational programmes we will exhaust funds or draw funds from 2021-2027, rather than talking about fire-fighting measures. But we're still a long way from that. We had, days ago, the Public Finance Supervisory Commission to deal with the final accounts for 2017 and one of the guidelines or the Court of Auditors' guidance was that we should finally start talking in this country about projects being planned in a timely manner, because, as has been the case in recent years, they are not planned in a timely manner, which means that spending is not the most economical. Then we use the resources that are in the final stage of our resources, even for projects that are not the most optimal. This has happened in the past, it is happening today, and as things are going on, it will obviously be happening in the next financial perspective. I remember a few years ago, six years ago, when I was on the occasion of a good year to see what it was like, not if a government – interesting that these are always so-called left governments, at the time it was Pahor’s – it does not lead these things in an efficient, economic and proper way. In 2012, at the beginning of 2012, we had an even worse situation than we have today in the field of the use of European money, but at that time we did not Parliament in the National Assembly on this, but the then President of the Government immediately after the oath, with concrete measures, launched this development wheel with weekly operational meetings within half a year. That is why we have drawn everything from the perspective of 2007-2013, not because of the government of Mir Cerar. What we're listening to today and listening to in the last three years is ridiculous. The prospect ended at the end of 2013, when the government of Mira Cerar was nowhere else. However, it was implemented in 2014, 2015, of course, but on the basis of everything that was closed by the end of 2013. In 2014, 2015 nothing could be closed from the previous year. And even with regard to this current perspective, the figures would be even worse, even worse if not one large part of the projects from the so-called overcommitment adopted by the then Yanšev government at the end of 2012 were transferred to the implementation of the 2014-2020 perspective. You probably know what I'm talking about. A number of water supply projects in the area covered by some 600,000 people in the country, where more than 200 million euros have been invested in the current period. A concrete example, say from Postojna, where I come from, we had a closed investment in water supply for the entire Beer Valley, called Malni, Korotana, the entire water system by beer and municipal municipality. In August 2013, a building permit was obtained and the project was included in an overcommitment from the previous perspective, the operators selected in the first half of 2014 and started only in 2015. And there are still some such projects that now concern the resources of this perspective, which may make the situation a little bit better, otherwise it would be even more catastrophic. With regard to what was said to be the 2014-20 perspective was closed during the second Janšev government. Yes, it was negotiated, on 8 February 2013 the perspective was negotiated, quite favourable for that situation – 3.2 billion; it was programmed to be closed at the time of the government of Alenka Bratušek. This has led to changes in content, and we now have problems because there are too many so-called soft content. I mentioned earlier that we were looking at the 2017 balance sheet in the framework of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission. Cerar's government – and I must say that unfortunately this is not any better now, because the recycling of the previous government with rare exceptions has been planned in 2017 by EUR 929 million from the European budget. More than half a billion, 395 million euros, more than half a billion less, were realised. If this isn't a worrisome number, I'm sorry, then I don't know what else might be a worrisome concern. Slovenia had a very small ratio between tides and tides. It was planned that this difference would amount to around EUR 400 million; in the end, it was slightly less than EUR 9 million. In short, there is an impossible situation, especially in the light of the fact that the content currently envisaged for pumping in this perspective is such that it does not allow the use of these funds to take place in a relatively short period of time. In our previous infrastructure perspective, we had more than a billion Euros available, now we have only a third of that amount, that is 300 million. Which means the problem, if it doesn't take action very quickly, will be very big. Today we should listen to a minister here who would lay down concrete measures – how, in what way this bike will begin to spin from tomorrow to close everything we can then use in the next two or three years by the end of 2020. It's not like we're gonna get any action in 30 days; we should know that today. We have a minister, he's been a minister for two months now, we have a government, the first to take care of it, of course, is Prime Minister Marjan Sarec. But today, apart from complaining about how the information system is responsible for everything and so on, what are internal matters; we have not heard anything concrete, nothing concrete about the reading of the sheets written by the professional services by the minister. I would like to hear the end of this debate today, there is still time, I think it can be done very quickly if someone has a vision, how and how. How, by which measures it adopts, by which amendment of its programme this country will successfully bring the existing perspective to an end by the end of 2020, as regards the closure of the programmes. And there is no debate here, we must bring it to a successful conclusion, and the euro must not remain. On the other hand, I would like to hear in this National Assembly, in a relatively short time, how and in what way projects, programmes and measures will be prepared for the next financial perspective; and by the end of this year, it will be closed within three months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Now he wants the word "minister." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u95	Thank you, Chairman. Let me say, for the introduction, that the infrastructure resources were not so small. The entire Cohesion Fund, which is part of this 3 billion, takes up just over €900 million. And with 914 million euros, we don't do soft projects, but they're all hard infrastructure projects. But it is true that these are not only projects that go to municipalities, but also railway projects, road projects, a section of a motorway we will open at the end of this month. In addition, the European Regional Development Fund, the funds earmarked for investments in the 10 municipalities for energy recovery, anti-floating measures, broadband, research infrastructure, and business zone infrastructure can also be put at the disposal of the Cohesion Fund. Together, these funds amount to almost 800 million. If we list some of the priority investments where we can find funds for investment, we have the promotion of investment by companies in research and innovation – 185 million, improvement of research and innovation infrastructure – 290 million, expansion of broadband services and deployment of high-speed networks – 27 million, support for dedicated investment in climate change adaptation – 30 million, investment in the water sector to meet the requirements of the Union's environmental acquis – 24 million, measures to improve urban environment, urban recovery and decontamination of degraded land – 57 million, development and renewal of integrated high-quality and interconnected rail systems – 40 million, then the improvement of regional mobility by linking secondary and tertiary transport links with TEN-T infrastructure – 68 million. Finally, investment in health and social infrastructure – 45 million. Together, therefore, more than half of the funds in the operational programme are available for investments, which is just over €1 billion and €600 million. It's about that question. If I can get into human resources. The issue was raised on the subject of personnel, human resources and how government exchanges caused various human resources tsunamis. That was the question. In doing so, let me reach the beginning of this millennium, when we have trained the staff and institutions before the accession funds for the period when we will enter the European Union and will thus be entitled to the entire cake of European funds. All pre-accession funds have been successfully absorbed and institutions have been set up. And when we entered the European Union in 2004, we were ready to do so. Perhaps not enough, since in 2007 and 2008 Slovenia has only paid more in the European budget than it has received from it. If matters are analysed, then it should be noted that the staff outflows and changes in the institutional structure took place in 2005 and later. Indeed, the result was that Slovenia was a payer in the European budget, as I mentioned earlier. Human and institutional changes were still a great deal, and I am sure that this is not good. That is why the government of Alenka Bratušek set up today's government service in 2013 to maintain institutional and human stability. And I also want to maintain this in advance because I believe that changes to such a large system as the system of implementation of European cohesion policy are inappropriate and can only lead to a stalemate in implementation. I believe that in this way we will also be successful in this programming period and will be able to absorb all available funds by the end of this period. One question was about the information system, how we're building it up. I tell you, we build on it every day, we keep an eye on it every day, there are improvements every day. We had a problem with the Ministry of Labour sector, where something hasn't worked yet, but I know they're solving the matter now. Virtually every day, the information system is more qualified, and it's getting better. I hope he'll be very active in the short term. There was also a question about the previous information system, but what about that and responsibility. I will set up a commission next week to conduct an internal audit on the information system's argument, and we will also look at the responsibilities and who will be responsible. That's already foreseen. As far as visiting congregations is concerned, yes, I have scheduled visits. A lot of mayors are already coming to me, and I accept that if I have to, any mayor, there's no problem, I'm happy because that's how he presents me with his problems, his problems. I personally know what they were like, so there's nothing in my way or new here, so I'd love to. But I'm gonna go out on the field, and I'm making a plan now, so I should be, but this week was a little different. I am making a plan because I will personally visit all the regional centres and also the various municipalities in the field, because this will make me aware of the problems that the congregations have. And especially to certain municipalities that work together and have a regional link, especially in such municipalities, I would like to see what their problems are and why they cannot carry out their projects. With regard to the field office, you will get all the details within the time limit, because one of the points envisaged under the action plan, including as regards the field office, will all details be given inside, how the visits will be carried out, and how we will also find a solution. About the development table. Yeah, that's right. That data is about the same as what I have in my hands. But there's a lot of data, I don't know what to say. [[…]] For example, if we look at the Coast Guard, this index is 101.8; because we know that the Kraška is 80 and the Coast is 120. We then put it under one factor and we know what the consequences of the different calls and points of calls are. We'll have to do something here, too, in my opinion. I can also speak for congregations such as Vipava and Ajdovščina, for example, because I know that they have a different development factor. And that's where the big problems are. I will give the case of Primorska because I know; otherwise I see, and the others are very low with factors. This is also a matter that will need to be looked at, especially in view of the future perspective, which shows a little different architecture from what was now. About two operational programmes. Two operational programs, we'll take note of this matter. I'm still waiting for arguments for and against why. In principle, we are not in favour of this because the problem would be operational as such and we would divide things into I don't know, I have a little more to study and look at, especially with the representatives of the Eastern and Western cohesion region, to look at their arguments, the real arguments they are. [[…]] Then we'll decide for sure how to proceed. As for the cohesion region, I think there was a question about one more or the same as it is now. For the time being, it is absolutely worth two cohesion regions, the figures have shown that they would otherwise receive fewer resources, especially in the east. We have one more question about programming. There was some debate on a new perspective and the future in this area. Let me give you some information. In May 2018, the European Commission presented a proposal for a new multiannual financial framework for the period 2021-2027. It takes into account the changed circumstances and priorities faced by the European Union since the exit of Great Britain, thereby reducing the revenue of the European Union budget; to changing international circumstances and new challenges in the field of migration, security, digitisation and technological change. Accordingly, the Commission has proposed an amount of €1.135 billion for the period 2021-2027, which is realistically comparable to the current multiannual financial framework and which allocates more resources for research, digitisation, migration, security and external relations programmes. The increase in funds for these purposes has been foreseen by the Commission at the expense of the smaller volume of funds for the two so far largest policy of the European Union budget, the common agricultural policy and the cohesion policy, which are reduced by 15 % and 10% respectively. The reduction in cohesion funds also has a significant impact on Slovenia, which, in recent negotiations in addition to agricultural policy, is a key priority for Slovenia. In allocating funds, the Commission has used the existing method of calculating national cohesion envelopes, the so-called Berlin method. As a result, Slovenia was provided with €3.73 billion of cohesion funds in constant prices for 2018 in the final proposal from the Commission. Notwithstanding the relatively favourable proposal of the Slovenian cohesion envelope, which can still be concluded, the final agreement at European Union level is being modified, but preliminary calculations show that there will be a marked imbalance in the level of funding between regions in Slovenia. As a result of the expiry of the financial transitional regime, the Western Slovenia region is thus losing a significant amount of resources available to them during the period 2014-2020. On the other hand, the first calculations show that there is going to be a significant increase in funds for the Eastern Slovenia region. This will potentially have a strong impact on the implementation of European cohesion policy in Slovenia, as well as on the management of economic development policies in Slovenia, in particular in policies run at the supraregional, national, R & D, education and the like. At the same time, negotiations are also under way on the normative framework of European cohesion policy within the Council of the European Union working group on structural measures where Slovenia is also actively involved. These are regulations that will define the substantive and systemic framework for the implementation of cohesion policy in the period 2021-2027. The first proposals of the regulations point to significant changes in the European Cohesion Policy system, following the European Commission's ambition to significantly simplify implementation and even more focus on results. The proposal sets out five key objectives at European Union level: a smarter Europe, a greener Europe, a more integrated Europe, a more social Europe and a Europe closer to the citizens. That's what I'd do for now. Thank you very much, Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u96	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. It's Dr. Darius Krajčič's turn. He'll get the word Franz Breznik behind him.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The reason for today's debate was a statement by the Court of Auditors' auditor. Today's debate, however, causes real difficulties in drawing on the current financial perspective. What was the cause, we soon heard that we can understand each other in different ways, is a whole bunch of interpretations possible; while this reason that we are talking about today actually exists. We've heard a lot about this subject today, and we've been repeating ourselves a lot. I'll try to be original, and I believe I'll have problems with my originality. It should be noted that Slovenia certified the story only at the end of 2016; and only after that certification could the first applications be made. That's why it's one of the reasons we need to draw a little bit. The previous financial perspective has long been entangled with tails and has reached, financially speaking, also very far into this perspective and has to be dealt with. If we were just looking at the cash flow, it wasn't so bad at the time. In fact, it is weak in terms of drawing on the current financial perspective. What pleased me very much already on the European Union Affairs Committee, which is the parent committee, is that we have united our position and opposition on this issue. That was very nice of me. It's true that I'm new to Parliament, and that's not why. I like positive stories. And if it is a positive story that we stand together once when we have a common problem, however, it shows that we are able to step together in Slovenia when we see common goals that we can pursue together. And that's definitely a positive message. That one of the causes of these severe problems is some kind of information system, is, excuse me, an absurdity to me. When I started my professional career in the early 1990s as a director of a company, there was also a computer player, we called this AOP, maybe some other gentlemen or ladies in older years remember this, this is automatic data processing; and also AOP syndrome. This means that the company doesn't run the principal, but it's run by that computer guy. And now I have the feeling that this country is run by a company that maintains this e-MA, or whatever it's called, or e-VA, because I don't even know how. And in the previous perspective, it was similar to another computer system. Excuse me, this is absurd to me. And I would also like to ask the Minister, you have also announced that you will thoroughly review and review the work of this ministry, whether this country is heroically dependent on this Ajtiian or is there any other story behind it. If this were the first time, I'd somehow understand because it's the second time, but it's very unusual. Even an ass only goes on ice once, we've obviously gone twice. I heard from one of my predecessors that he was one of the Prime Ministers - but I don't know what he was, because it doesn't matter - he started the draw wheel six months later. That means someone gave him half a year to move on, and we're asking him today, after two months to run this thing, which was previously miserably or worse taken away. But let's leave them half a year or we'll let them run it if one of the previous presidents had half a year's time and was, let's say, successful. However, it is too severe to expect results within two weeks. Today I have heard even greater demands from those that were previously set in motion as the basis for today's debate. That the minister should have taken action today. However, we are talking today, and it was also the proposal of the proposer to draw up an action plan. I imagine that within this document these measures will be visible; which will not only, I hope, be the Ministry's actions, led by the Minister without a licence; but by all other ministries, because this problem is actually the problem of other ministries. And the content problem in the ministries is even bigger than here at the SVRK. I imagine that if we recommend to the government today that we prepare an action plan to give it 30 days to prepare it. However, if not, the proposaler's ruling should be different, namely to present the measures at this meeting. It's not like that. The proposer himself gives them 30 days of time and I ask that we give them 30 days of time. In the end, Mr. Secretary, I would like to see your definition. Do you believe that the negotiated financial perspective has been poorly negotiated? Is it said that there were too few so-called hard projects, or was it not possible to negotiate differently? My assessment is that there was no other way to negotiate. At least in the file I have an insight into. But I'm interested in your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Franz Breznik has the word. He gets the word of Matthew the Widow.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u99	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, why we have prepared this meeting, I think we all understand. European funds are unfortunately our only development resources in the vast majority. European funds mean some long-term assistance to become a more competitive country. Why is this so urgent? This is so urgent because the outlook for the 2014-2020 period is nearing its end. In fact, we have another year to finish, and then it's ad acta. Learning, repeating with the same mistakes as one of Einstein's Nobel laureates once said, and waiting for us to get better results. I think we're aware of what he said in the end, so it's crazy and it's not going anywhere. The problem that you have raised several times today is primarily the information system. I looked at the audit of the Court of Auditors, which dealt in particular with the programme with which I am most involved, namely Horizon 2020, the high research programme which Slovenia should be most involved in. And in this audit report, it was found that the Ministry of the System of National Contact Points did not put into the organisation and implementation of science development tasks in such a way as to contribute effectively to better implementation. The national legal basis for the functioning of the Slovenian system of national contact points, according to the Court of Auditors, was insufficient formal and substantive during the period considered. Given that the three institutions have submitted the most applications and that the information and communication support is lacking, the Court of Auditors concluded that the information does not take place in such a way as to encourage other potential new applicants to apply. The information system issue is not yesterday, today; but it is happening if we just look at the Court of Auditors' audit already in the previous government, from the period to 31. 12. 2012 and 2010 periods, we could see the exact same picture. So in six years, nothing happened in this area, the information system. The issues are flawed, as some have said, not only by the Ministry, but also by lack of information, ignorance. Like a Croatian colleague, it's sad. They did it, we could say, professionally. Just in Brussels to let you know, Minister, they have five large lobbying offices. Only in Brussels. There, for the most part, employees have all the youngest members who have generally been educated abroad who have sufficient knowledge, and they themselves are heavily indebted and realize that this needs to be exploited, maximum. If Slovenia wants to do anything in this perspective, in this fourth industrial revolution, some breakthrough, which we are talking about, also from Horizon 2020, is the ultimate research programme, which is precisely about these most inventive things that then lead to some innovation, there is also a problem. We have a systemic problem. We have a systemic problem and it's all left to us. And we always end up panicking, and then that perspective; and then the last one, we ended up two more years in this perspective. In the end, it ended as happily as possible. We have to admit that at the time, the SDS held a few such meetings to the end that we put push up, as we would say, some energy for this to happen. Slovenia's competitiveness as a small country with relatively small population, relatively low economic power, including its own absorption market, is a problem. Our future goes only in the direction of high-tech products, boutique products in the area of which I now deal – food, and other matters in tourism. If ever, Minister, this is absolutely necessary, firstly, an information system, informing people about what else is available, what programs are available, and where we can participate. As early as 2012, the Slovenian Court of Auditors identified the shortcomings of the information system, the contact points and everything else in these funds. Mr. Secretary, I think you can see that the session is not directed directly at you. We are aware that you are a relatively short time and that a person needs some time for these funds. But I want to tell you that if you keep teams of people who have not yet been able to work around you, they have not been able to organize; in addition, you need to maintain within the government some special minister in addition to the Minister of Economy, who is most needed by the Prime Minister in the development of this country. And you, even though you're a secretary without a license, have an incredible role to play. One of the most important roles of this country to me. I see Slovenia as a highly technologically developed country, which will be a partner or the best partner between small countries in Europe in the area of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. This will be our competitive advantage and we will then be able to put this money into the development of tourism, agriculture and all the other areas that are somehow needed. This is our great opportunity for Slovenia and the opportunity begins by optimizing and taking advantage of the money available to us. And these three billion that are available to us from this perspective, just for the Eastern region from which I come, even more, is the urgently needed money to break through. What I miss at the beginning of this government is that self-confidence is ambition. We must be ambitious and have high goals. We need to set high goals. If not, we'll fall into that deep average. If you're some big country's deep average, we'll survive. A small nation, a relatively ageing society such as the Slovenians, needs urgent money for breaking, development and a competitive advantage for ourselves. And this is the biggest guarantee in all economic crises, that is, all those who may follow. We will also become resistant to crises. Mr. Minister, what I want you to do is, for the first time, reorganize the ministry, the teams around you who have done very badly so far. Very bad. And what we're explaining to you today is spoken by the mayors of all municipalities, as you've seen, you have a whole series of records about the community talking about these soft content that you've been talking about today. And also what was the basis for the meeting, the report by Sam Jereb, who works in the European Court of Auditors, which is frightening. Scary. Minister, I hope that everyone can be on the same footing, we all have to make sure that Slovenia goes in the right direction. Most of the people who are talking about this are talking about high-tech issues more, in this high-tech area of the fourth industrial revolution, saying that maps are getting mixed up in a new one in Europe, that is, in the area of countries that will survive, and in the countries that will come. And also civilizations that will go into this very area. That is why, Mr Minister, we need to take our sleeves, show greater ambition, hit the table also against the President of the Government, encourage colleagues from other ministries, other policies, interdepartmental coordination to set up these points, set up an information system, educate a number of people to optimize the pumping and to put a good end to this perspective, in which we have relatively little time. Unfortunately, you don't have half a year to get to know that you're getting an education because the perspective is closing. We are not in 2015, in the beginning; but we are at the end of 2018. That is why such a meeting is necessary, and that is why it is necessary for other fellow ministers in this government and other institutions that are your support environment in obtaining European funds to hear from you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The word is Matthew the Widow.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. When monitoring the media, discussions on the parental committees, the Commission on Public Finance Control, one really wonders that we are completely ineffective in drawing on European cohesion funds. The statement made by Mr Jereb, a member of the European Court of Auditors, that Slovenia was one of the ten countries that last year, in the fourth year of the implementation of the current financial framework, did not spend any funds from the European investment fund structures, but in fact, it points to a single presentation of the problem. As usual, in later discussions it is always found that the truth is somewhere in the middle, that certain statements, data, facts are taken out of context. That certain declarations may be interpreted in such a way or other way. There are a number of objective circumstances that affect the implementation of certain measures and activities. At the same time, I do not think we should take matters too superficially. European cohesion policy statements should be considered in the context of a longer period of time, as programmes and individual cases are interconnected. The use of European cohesion funds is intended for the equitable development of individual regions of the European Union. In view of our development across areas and regions, we actually meet all the conditions, the criteria for the allocation of these funds. Slovenia is still a net recipient until 2020, so it would be extremely irresponsible not to spend these dedicated grants. Institutionally, this area has already been regulated. A government service for development and European cohesion policy has been established. Mr Marko Bandelli is currently responsible for this area. As we can see from the presentation, the response of governments and reports is being speeded up in the regulation of technical matters, in particular by establishing an effective and compatible information system. During the previous government, a European regulatory framework, a partnership agreement, operational programmes and a series of guidelines were adopted. In 2015, by decree, the Government adopted an operational programme implementation plan so that all the conditions for accelerated use of resources are met. At the same time, however, I must also admit to my colleagues and agree with them that, at the time of the financial framework of the previous governments for 2007 and 2013, they have signed a withdrawal contract; but let me note that this does not mean that the funds have also been paid and realised in this framework. They were only divided, and the projects ran until 2015, which means that the government of Dr. Mira Cerar had to bring them to an end, which was a very difficult and very large supply for the government at that time. It should be stressed that the Government of Mir Cerar in the field of European cohesion policy has received a markedly poor legacy, which was a reflection of the work and policy of the past governments. In 2015, however, the government ensured the successful implementation of all operational programmes of the financial framework for 2007 and 2013 and thus prevented the threatening loss of funds from the past perspective. By accelerating the drawdown of funds, Slovenia has taken fourth place during this period and has been among the eight Member States of the European Union that have managed to absorb all available funds by the end of the period. These funds have accelerated economic development in Slovenia, which we still feel today. Currently, 3 000,443 projects worth more than € 2.1 billion are being actively implemented, almost 70% of the funds available to Slovenia by 2023. For most of the funds allocated, the ministries have already made public calls and concluded co-financing contracts with selected operators. Projects are already being implemented and are under way, and activities already under way are also being paid. In the financial perspective 2014-2020, €3 billion of cohesion funds are intended primarily for the start-up and restructuring of the economy, for the strengthening of innovation activities, technological challenges and the visibility of Slovenia. These funds must be a generator of investment, technological development, innovation and, above all, the development of tourism. With such maximum involvement of all actors involved in the implementation of the current financial perspective, I find that nothing is yet delayed, nothing at all. We have five more years available to draw on all resources by the end of 2023, when the period of eligibility from the current perspective expires. I am confident that the projects will be successfully implemented and that all funds will be spent. It is precisely because of this that I am optimistic about voting in favour of the proposed measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u102	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Carmen Furman.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u103	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The use of European funds is important for the country for a number of reasons. There's been a lot of talk about this today, and I don't want to repeat myself. However, I would like to point out here how important it is to draw on European funds for the development of our municipalities. Each of us here lives in one of his own congregations, which has the primary task of caring for the quality of life of citizens. We know that the regionalisation process has not been carried out in Slovenia, so the municipalities depend on the government's success in drawing on European funds in the implementation of investment projects. As the government’s last financial perspective on the use of these European funds was completely ineffective, the municipalities had no opportunity to carry out projects in their local environment, such as road, water, sewerage, schools, kindergartens and the like. So that I'm not overly biased here, I'm just going to illustrate the latter with the example of the congregation that I come from. In 2004-2008, when the Government of the Slovenian Democratic Party enabled municipalities to draw on European funds successfully, the municipality of Slovenska Bistrica managed to implement some 34 million euro of investment projects. We built water pipelines, sewerage, a regional waste centre, a home for the elderly; then, in 2014-2018, due to the inactivity of the Government of Mir Cerar, only one project, namely the construction of the first phase of the Western bypass of EUR 2 million. However, I must say that the previous government of Mira Cerar has acted very centrally. She put the funding of the Ljubljana Municipality first and signed an agreement with Mayor Zoran Jankovic worth 300 million euros. This includes a project of 34 projects, most of which are expected to be implemented by the end of this year. That we have national and local elections this year is, of course, just a coincidence. And in this agreement it is certainly for projects that would come to our citizens as well, so the Slovenian Democratic Party of Slovenska Bistrica Group addressed a public call to the government and demanded that the Government ensure the equitable development of all municipalities and that the financial resources are evenly distributed to all citizens and citizens. Not as it is now, however, that the state in the municipality, such as Slovenska Bistrica, abolishes tax exposure, the centre for social work, because only a unit operates within the reorganisation, you wanted to stop us from exhibiting the Agricultural Lands Fund. There's not gonna be any deception here, it's only happening in small congregations. The municipality of Slovenska Bistrica has about 25 000 inhabitants and is one of the largest municipalities in Slovenia. And there will now be no evidence that I am running some kind of populism here, as the local elections are approaching, this call was forwarded in 2016 and our political group in Slovenia Bistrica was rewarded only with silence by the government. And the answer to why we have such centralisation or inconsistent regional development in our country is obviously more here than we have in our hands today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u105	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Once again, dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Every minute, I am more sure of how good it was to make this debate. And I agree with my colleague Dari Krajčič, who says he is pleased that we have united ourselves; to see that things do not work out as they are said; and that we all somehow want to give support to the government here. Do something, you rule, the government is to rule; and in fact, we draw these funds. It is true that matters for the absorption of cohesion funds in Slovenia are specific or more specifically more difficult than in some other Member States of the European Union. Why? I think we are one rare, I don't know exactly, maybe the only country in the European Union that we don't have a defined, established second level of local self-government – landscapes, countries, regions, whatever you want. When we had practical simulations of regional or provincial budgets in the 2004-2008 mandate, but, of course, the opposition of that time said that it would not contribute to its votes, because it was necessary to have a two-thirds majority in this Parliament to establish the provinces. And the fact that we don't have another level of local self-government is our developmental bar. I'm glad my colleague Jani Prednik is from Koroška. I was there on Monday — a beautiful country. That he mentioned cross-border projects. For example, there is a congregation in Korea that does not have a partner on the other hand, since there are two regions, two provinces. The same applies to Hungary, Croatia, Italy and so on. What two congregations can agree on are relatively small projects. I visit our Slovenians more than once until we can say that there are Slovenians, because the state of Slovenia does something for them, which it can do within its means. One of these last projects, to be commended, is a model farm. Unfortunately, I have to say here my personal disappointment that I am disappointed that Hungary, which is our neighbor, will not give the use of Slovenians enough. I can say that I understand it as making a fool when Slovenia places a model farm there, and there is a road to which you will not be able to drive any car, not any sports car at all. I find that very difficult to understand, and in some ways I feel sorry for the use of Slovenians here. I will not go to this level now, as my fellow Servant has said, what the Cerari government has done, so that one of our former governments has not done. I can talk about this for a long time because I have been very involved with European projects or cohesion funds when I led the European Union Affairs Committee during the Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek; and we have even taken individual decisions to the level of individual projects and pushed them forward. I don't even remember them anymore. I know it was once six municipalities in the Kozyansk area when it came to water supply. Here I also remember the mayor of Škofljica and his neighbors, we also pushed the water supply further. And what I said behind the phone, we would be better off if the government listened to the conclusions that the Members adopted. We have taken the decision to make the Operational Programme for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy specifically for the Eastern Cohesion Region and specifically for the Western region. The decision was taken, and the government ignored it. In some classical democracies, that doesn't happen. If it does, then the government must fly away or at least the competent minister. That's how things work in democracy. We're elected, people sent us here. I could also list here a number of cases that individual governments simply did not want to implement. I also agree, and in a way hurts, as my colleague Kramar said, the experienced mayor, who I so understood – czech, the money earmarked for the Western cohesion region, actually got Ljubljana. Why? I don't know. I can only speculate because I also read and talked in certain circles that Cerar and Jankovic bought political peace in this way. But I make a dot here because such a debate is unproductive. The money is gone, and here you can see this terrible inequality, injustice, if you will. There are citizens on one list and we have a list of some other, second-class citizens. That hurts. And such a shame, such a restriction that you, in fact, cannot finance a sewage system that is less than 2,000 population units with European funds, is unacceptable to me; it is not acceptable because Europe is also us. If this is in some European dossiers of restrictions, the Slovenian government should negotiate for so long that it can prove to the European institutions that it is simply not acceptable for us; and that this barrier, if it is in European files, I do not know. As a result, some fragmented settlements, Goričko and so on, are simply cut off from such resources, but of course such systems are needed to be built. And something else, in accordance with the Law on the Promotion of coherent regional development, we also have an agreement on the development of the regions in an article. These arrangements for the development of the regions have been signed for two years. The first invitation was on 13 November 2015, the second invited on November 2017. You'll say that's not today's topic. Yes, it is. That's two years. But what's done with this deal? It's just a list of wishes, a list of projects, nothing else, projects aren't made. When will this come to pass? I don't know. I don't know. Not to mention the biggest problem, there's no money either. The sum of all these projects is around 450 million, but you just can't find this money. And there were quite a few of us debaters who pointed to this problem of the absence of a second level of local self-government. I'm kind of calling on the government. Minister, bring this to the government, let's start the regionalisation process in Slovenia. Here you will have an ally on the side of New Slovenia, because one of the values of Christian democracy is the principle of subsidiarity, which is precisely at the level of local self-government the most effective. On the first level of the municipality and on the second level of the region. I'm sure that would be a big plus. And we ourselves will have to communicate with people who say – We need to do so, again some political functions and so on. But here you can see that countries where this second level of local self-government is established are more successful countries. And then the region leads some regional projects significantly easier. Now we have, let's say from the Pomurian statistical region, just statistical, this practically means nothing, nothing. Then 27 mayors have to run to so many and so many ministers, it's a burden for ministers, the government and, of course, for mayors as well, everyone talks separately. Logically, they will tell you in primary school that this does not count as effective. I think that any political project this coalition can carry out, whether it is enshrined in a coalition agreement or not. Let's all do something together that's good for this country. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u106	Thank you for your opinion, Member. Mr. Yuri Leprechaun has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u107	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! To what we are discussing today, I would like to try to add something new, something additional, perhaps to light up a little bit. I certainly welcome today's session, today's debate with pleasure, and I also very much welcome it. As you know, we all welcome her too, Members, we know that our problems are in European resources, in development, if we say so. I also agree that the state of Slovenia should look more closely at equitable development. This was also the basic version, the basic system that we were created by. And that seems personal to me, and I've been doing a lot of work at the local level myself, so we've been a little neglected here. And we've slowly given in, we've given in, and now it's not even regional development anymore, but it's centralist development again. Who's to blame? In my opinion, everyone in a small way, because we have let go through some things that might still be acceptable in Parliament. My colleague Horvat said that they had already adopted a decision in this Parliament on the division into the Eastern and Western regions, and then the decision was not implemented at the national level, on the government side. If that's it, then something's really wrong. I personally strongly advocate that the region is either two or three, but one is certainly not good. If there is only one region, we in Slovenia have such municipalities, such landscapes, such countries, which are still engaged in basic infrastructure projects, facilities, from water supply, sewerage, roads; there are others who already have all of these. In this regard, in my opinion, we have made little effort in Slovenia to present the Slovenian specifics in Europe. If they're now saying that's why they're not, because they're setting it up there, but it's clear, we've made proposals. They did not make up what we want or what they would do for us. I insist that we continue to insist on this in a balanced development as a basic motto. From this we can also build this so that we have two regions plus Ljubljana in particular, if we have already said this, because the capital also has its own law, it can also be financed differently; but not that some funds can actually be collected from this same address, which could be more widely distributed across Slovenia. And to light up the matter a little bit, there was a lot of talk about small and large cleaning appliances. Europe therefore did not finance small devices because it happens that if a cleaning plant is not even going to be built in a settlement, this means that there must be small cleaning plants. Europe just said it would not support it. With this money, the congregation itself must ensure that those houses, those settlements that are outside the reach of 500 units, must have their own cleaning plant or some regional smaller cleaning plant. As far as this is concerned, I personally do not care so much that they have said that up to 2,000 units; but the fact is that we also have to attach those places that are within these main roads to the main lines; the others will never be attached to the basic cleaning plant anyway. There, however, the local community must ensure that they work for themselves. As for the investments themselves, these projects. I am sure and I am also in favour, and I can also confirm, and the local communities are the ones who are more rational in their use of funds. You don't want to, you want to get hit more, they look at you more, you have opposition, you have a position, people are watching you. Believe me, you're not gonna spend that kind of money, on average, millions, but you're gonna be more rational. In any case, the congregations are the ones who could — and are — use these large funds more rationally. It happens not to be, but in a global way, believe me, at local levels, resources are more controlled. The more you are hit, the more you are accompanied by each other, as far as this is concerned, the more I think it is right to insist that these big projects or projects are also carried out locally. But we've said a hundred times that we don't have any regions. Of course, I agree that they should be, but they're not. Here, some congregations were united on the basis that they had a joint project. Let's say a five-million-dollar project was so small that we couldn't even run. However, we agreed on a joint project from Styria to Koroška region, and then we succeeded in 2005. But that was the way; without the state joining us together, but we joined with the municipalities on the basis of an idea project. And this project has come to life, and now we are running, so we are also satisfied. We have also sought the association of congregations, not to say that congregations must be united because of what we have said. No, the process has to be the other way around. Just as we used to be separated, then we will be united if they give people this permission themselves; with a referendum. In these calls, and after we put out calls to apply for implementation, there are also additional problems, because I also think that we have become so Piccolovic, there are 5, 6 performers, you choose one, and then there must be the lowest price, and then two complain. And the project takes place in a month, two, three. In this regard, I would suggest, too, if there is a possibility of a change in marriage, that not everyone can just apply and actually give in to an objection. I think there are some procedures now that this documentation has to be paid. In any case, a number of projects fell into the water because a complaint was made, the congregation sought out an advocate, he sought out his advocate, and they milled the mills for so long that the project went away, and the funds remained elsewhere. This too is such a drawback that we should consider how to resolve it. But the other thing is that it seems very important to me – we have made such laws, such paths, such calls to make a project – and it seems to me especially when it has been said to a colleague that we are a country in the country, that we are making our own belts more difficult than Europe is for us. From this point of view, too, it seems to me that after being unlovable to each other, he succeeded, and I failed. At the state level, it seems like when you come to the ministry or the agency, they're looking at you like you're on some kind of interrogation right now. If you know better than municipal officials know, help, for this is money for Slovenia. Such examples have already been said, and this idea that within these agencies we should let little know that we are in the same pot together. And if we want to make progress, we are trying to solve this project together; not then, as has been said, we are losing huge millions of dollars in a branch. Regardless of what we are currently discussing, I am very happy and pleased that this debate is ongoing. I also thank my colleague Šimenko for giving her a lot of information and that this has even happened. I am very happy and pleased that in some projects, in some parts we are able to work together because we know that it is in common good. If we do this, maybe we'll change a little bit in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u108	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Mr Vojko Starović has the floor. At the same time, I would also like to announce that he is preparing himself as the last Mr Daniel Krivec and that he will later be given the floor as a representative of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u109	Thank you for your word, President. Hello, colleagues, colleagues, Minister! I must also say that I am pleased with these discussions and the conclusion that the window is still open to all resources. I wouldn't look back, but I would like to point out these obstacles that are on our way to pump these funds to the end. As colleague Breznik said, these funds are very important, they have also been in the past, because investing in infrastructure has a multiple effect on these matters; and they have in many ways facilitated the crisis in which we are in. This pumping is therefore very important and therefore today's debate is also important. I may not know enough about this area, but I know that in many other areas we are putting ourselves in much worse administrative obstacles than Europe is setting for us. We really are more popes than popes. And I place this warmly on the government and also on our minister to take care of these matters so that we do not agree to everything immediately and that we are so susceptible. I know that in aviation as well as in other areas of stupidity we do everything; and then our boys register planes abroad because it's three times cheaper and three times easier. And it wouldn't be about that right now, and it's about this obstacle that we don't have any provinces that's important. Let's go, Members, Alenka Bratušek's Party is for the provinces, because it's a smart thing and we'll be able to solve these things more easily. I would like to stress these calls again. I know that many things have fallen because of these calls and complaints and have not been carried out. Let's get this over with, because we agree here. I'll be brief, because I can see that we're done, I don't want to hold back, it's 6:20 on Friday. But I'd like to point it out. I remembered the words of industrial genius Henry Ford, the liquid tape, the consumer society he invented. There's a lot of things flying out of his lawn. He said this sentence upset me years ago and also encouraged me to write: “If you believe you can, or if you don’t believe you can; in any case you’re right.” That's very deep. If you believe that you can; and if we believe, we will deal with things with our hearts and minds; if you do not believe, we will not succeed. I believe that in this window that we have left, we can solve and complete with the right work and the right way. And let this be an example, too, of these debates, that we will also be successful in other areas in our wider country, in Europe. I do not know how successful we are in drawing from the agricultural fund, the fisheries fund and other funds. Here, let us not forget this and take steps in this direction. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u110	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And as the last on the list, Mr. Daniel Krivec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u111	Thank you for your word, distinguished president, nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues! I think that today's debate has just shown that the topic that we have opened has been important and that in some ways all of you are aware of the need to accelerate the absorption of European funds. I don't know if you're all aware that there isn't as much time as some people do. The fact is that until the end of 2020 things need to be closed, although we can carry out another two years, we can give the situation, we can also report, but since 2020 the matter has been closed. Since we are already practically 2019, tomorrow or tomorrow, if you say so, there is not much time. Those of you who have ever engaged in drawing on European funds at local level or at any other institution know what this means. And we are now focusing mainly on the report on 2017. I am very concerned when we receive the 2018 report, because it is likely that the picture will be even worse. I believe that the Minister took all these warnings that were given very seriously, although his debate, I must say, given that he was the mayor, she was not the most convincing, at least for me. Here, however, I would expect that after two months, the minister does not talk about having to study some things, that he has to see things, that the mayors will go and ask what problems they have; because this has already been served. Development agencies, municipalities have already sent thousands and one comment in the previous mandate, demands for things to speed up, warnings on which matters do not work; however, there have been no answers. Mr. Minister, you have nothing to do in the field, you have to force the service for which you are responsible to start. Without every two months ordering development agencies, municipalities to correct certain documents – this is crucial. And I didn't hear that from you today. This disappointed me a little, because the announcement at the hearing was that you were an operative, to see where things stopped, and you'll speed it up. Not a word of it was heard today. At least one course in this matter is how you will act in the sense or transformation of some operational programmes, if you have found that one thing will not be exhausted; or the conversion of certain people to individual programmes that will allow something to be done. That wasn't from your side. It has been heard that you will re-examine, consult, go to the mayors who will tell you what they have been saying for four years now, that there are no calls to amend the rules and extend the tender proposal for six months when the call is announced. When the time comes again for the invitation to tender to be issued in the Official Journal, they shall find that an information system must be corrected and so on. They can only give you a list from one of the development agencies in our regions, and you will see where the comments are. I am just lucky that I have been involved in the work of development agencies as mayor, later as president of these agencies; and that I will not be practically supported, I will not say daily, but once a week I know for sure what is going on and what is not happening. And some Members also spoke about how projects should be prepared. The projects have all these congregations, including where the demands to connect have been made by large projects, they have all been made, for two, three years now waiting for the call. I can tell you about the North Coast or the Upper Belt, it's boundlessly a lot of things prepared. It was World War I, where there was great ambition and desire to take advantage of it. We didn't use anything because nothing worked. And if we push our heads into the sand, as it was today to feel by the minister, even though I still believe he has the will and the energy, but some bad knowledge and ambition to change it, I did not feel from his answers. Also, reading leaves from his left and right whisperers means that he obviously does not know much or little about the problem. I expected him, as he announced he would hit the table, he would say: In this context and in this context it is necessary to do so and to do so. But after two months, we're listening to another check. Like I said, the debate was good, at least for most people. But it has to be taken seriously. And I think that some of you are still not aware that this resource, if we don't draw on it, is especially important for the development of individual smaller municipalities. Maybe the larger city halls will somehow come together. All the rest of the periphery that has invested heavily in the preparation of these documents; you need to know that the municipalities have pledged to obtain building permits, but they do not have all the other documentation, because someone at the Ministry does not make the call. Don't put your coats in front of your eyes, that's all right, and that's it when it's done. I think a similar meeting will be necessary in a month if nothing clear happens. Perhaps on a committee to check whether a measure has been taken at the Ministry to accelerate the absorption of these European funds. I want the Minister to really move things, as he did in some good way; but there is still a lack of realisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u112	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u113	Thank you, President. There weren't more than so many questions at the end, but I'll take my turn. The question was about the information system and about the previous operator. The previous contractor is no longer, since we have a previous contract, we have made a new contract, a new tender was just, with a new contractor, a new contract. Now we're just about to sign a contract. That's what we're saying. We've activated things a little bit. We're practically right before the new treaty is signed. As far as internal audit is concerned, I've said this before. We will determine internal responsibilities, absolutely. And we'll see who's been making mistakes all these years. With regard to Mr Hroat's proposal for regionalisation, it is not a topic today, but I agree 100% with you. It's a theme to drive forward, absolutely. If we want even development, the only system that is, regionalisation, we know why. We also know about the problem of two cohesion regions. Why two cohesion regions? Why are there problems if there were only one? This case would be just fine. And as far as my opinion on the costs of regionalisation is concerned, for example, if there are 12 regions, for example, someone does not understand, if there are 12 smaller municipalities, the cost remains the same, but, in this sense, they are combined into regions. I think it's just the political will, the will of the parliamentary groups. And I think this could be a very good argument for this mandate. Development in the present perspective compared to the previous ones, you know that we had a different system. The previous system was regions that received certain funds and then distributed them and now projects are important. The more successful congregation succeeds in projects, but otherwise it somehow stops. You asked us about the frame, we changed some footage. We're going to change some of the footage, we're going to need a new frame, especially in terms of the new perspective, and I would very much like to involve different actors in programming. We are also preparing a new world, and I will also make proposals to the government, in what way, with youth in particular, because it also has a different perspective on this and sees otherwise. As far as pumping is concerned, you need to know, there was a lot of talk about pumping and why there is no drawing, why the problems are on call. You need to know that our department doesn't deal with invitations. We're just controlling the calls we get from the marshals. We only review theirs if they are in line with what Europe dictates. Except Goal 2 and Goal 2 we're direct. But you need to know that Goal 2 is almost completely pumped and we've done our task in our department. That's the job. Let me answer the last speaker who said he heard very few ambitious things on my part. On my part, I have about three sides of ambition to make, but I will not speak here now, because it is also in the next action plan. But you weren't here before, and you couldn't hear what the action plan was, what were the points and the points. I'm sorry, but this is it. I told you about the projects. I told you about Goal 2. Here's our job. I want to tell you in the end that I thank you once again for this initiative. I think the initiative is important. It is not that every four years a meeting is held and the Minister of Development is called here to report. I think the Minister for Development could be invited here several times to tell you how the pump is running, how the pumping is done, what projects are like, how we are in contact with the resources, how we control and force the work of the resource; because the biggest problem of pumping is the resources, it's the Ministry, there's the problem. I also gave a problem of unification of the tendering system because, as you know, every ministry also has its own tender system, and then it is not compatible when new tenders arrive. These are all the things I've prepared for the table, but I'm sorry, Mr. Krivec, you'll get detailed if you want, on this. There's only one thing to conclude. We in Slovenia do not need projects to draw on funds, but we need resources to make quality projects, good projects that give us economic efficiency. This is important. Let's not do projects just to draw on them, but projects need to be thought out, they need to be able to reduce unemployment in order to boost economic growth and these things. Here are the projects, and we'll move on to that. I don't know if you know anything about V4 + 4. We're kind of drifting away from this idea, these are the Visegra states. We did not want to join the maximum pumping in the area of infrastructure, but rather more technological and high-tech. We will also move forward in this direction, which does not mean that there will be no infrastructure, but it will probably make a different, technological sense. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u114	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Although I don't think there's any danger that you'll be invited to this National Assembly once every four years. Mr. Krivec, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u115	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. You are not the Minister for Development, but you are the Minister for Regional Development and so on. I think I was misunderstood by you. I don't know how much ambition you have, or you said three sides of ambition. I asked you about concrete commitments and concrete orientations, those first steps. I didn't hear that. I believe you have a lot of hidden ambitions, but we haven't heard much. The desire or ambition of our meeting was to hear how the ministry will further accelerate the drawing-up of European funds through concrete measures. I didn't see that. My colleagues probably didn't either. Perhaps your desire, ambition, is to believe this, but concrete guidance, some concrete steps to say, will be the first step and we will do something about it; it was not. And that's why I've warned you that it's pointless to take your time and visit the mayors because you were the mayor and you know what the problem is. If there's not enough information from your own practice, I think the development agencies have a lot of this material. I think it would be enough if you and one director or the director of one development agency sit down for half an hour and explain to you why things don't work. But you have already found that some things do not work and that some new contracts are needed, but this is operational, this is not a measure that we would be interested in. You need to solve this inside your house and within your officials, you need to resolve the matter. One direction would be to change the operational programmes to go into some new negotiation, that's some direction. But we can talk about ambitions next time.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u116	Thank you for your replica, Mr. Ambassador. The text is by the representative of the proposer, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u117	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, don't worry. We'll see each other in the National Assembly many times. You have to send a report on the drawing-up of European funds every three months anyway. But I'll see you a little sooner. For thirty days you will have the time to align with the whole government and also to draw up a concrete action plan, on which I believe we will be discussing again here in this national assembly. And there's probably gonna be some sort of topic in your area in the middle. There is certainly no need to worry about seeing each other every few years. I think that today's debate was still on the table, that we have somehow found in a uniform way that the situation of drawing from the existing financial perspective is not good, that things need to be accelerated; and that is to be accelerated as a matter of urgency. We are also aware that these are in fact almost the only development funds we have for the country and also for local communities. I think that we have also been united, that this is the basic purpose of these European funds – and that it must be a fundamental objective, as the European Union has also meant – by reducing the differences in individual regions. I think today's debate has been good, constructive, which has been exposed to many initiatives, proposals and problems. I am pleased that you have supported all parliamentary parties already on the European Affairs Home Committee, and I also expect this today in the vote. But I believe that not only the minister, but the whole government team is waiting for work. I will point out once again, the area of European funds is not only a matter that actually covers this, but it is and must be a priority, the first task of the whole government. And I also call on you – coalition parties to appeal to your ministers to be truly aware of this. Time's not that big. In fact, time is very short, all things must be under the roof by 2020, regardless of the fact that we actually have time to carry out these projects that have been set up for some three years. This year will turn out extremely quickly. I think we need to speed things up and work on this right now, today. Thanks again for the constructive debate. I look forward to such and similar meetings in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u118	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your words. I note that the time for discussion has not yet expired. Does anyone else want to discuss it? The possibility of an application shall be made. We have two MPs – Mr Breznik and Mr Franc Jurša. Mr. Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u119	Mr Minister, I have come by, and I apologize to my colleagues and colleagues if anyone is in a hurry to go home, but I think the topic is so important for the development of Slovenia that I have to take a call. I'm the one who told you, even though you didn't listen to me, about some greater ambition of this country. Most often you talk about the narrow segment, about European projects in Slovenia. In particular, I have asked you a question about the European Research and Innovation Programme Horizon 2020. Mr Minister, let me tell you something about the European Research Council, future emerging technologies, particularly measures, including Marie Curie, a special fund that operates in the field of so-called 21st century research or new logistics and smart infrastructure. These are the projects that colleague Logar is now talking about in Ljubljana, that Ljubljana, as the capital, will not, say, deal with the pressure rods. These are the stories of European projects, and I would call them the stories of 20th century technology. We're talking about the 21st century, and I've been talking about this ambition. I was saying you need to see your perspective or your story as a minister for the development of this country. And development means that we will be a knowledge-based society. As we speak today, most municipalities do not do much about European projects, in all the perspectives that we have had. I am talking about a specialised project, a specific programme, Horizon 2020, which is a research programme. I'm talking about new technologies that are going to take over, we're talking about bionics, we're talking about nanotechnologies, we're talking about Slovenians with good extensions, we're talking about mechatronics, we're talking about all those contact points that are urgently needed to bring things to life. And one more thing, you were talking about the information system today. I wanted to warn you that with the team you have around you, it will be difficult to bring a positive one in this European perspective and conclude. Why? Since the Court of Auditors has already concluded in its revision 2010-2012 that there are problems with accessible points and, above all, with the information system. This is not only the story of Sam Jereb, who identified it, but also talked about information problems — not now, but six years ago. The team around you has not been able to solve the problem of the information system in this country for six years, exactly in your area. Where's the rest of what's coming? I think we need to discuss this, and you need to say, if you want to make a breakthrough. We are most dependent on you. You are one of the most important members of this government. According to the President of the Government, you are probably one of the most important ministers. For me, you're not just the Minister for Cohesion, you're also for high technology, you're for development. Even in this area, we can say that we are drawing poorly, very poorly informed by certain individuals and institutions. Here's the need for this, Mr. Minister, to roll up your sleeves so that those people who don't have the knowledge they put there will be replaced to strengthen with other teams like our neighbouring countries. I have cited the example of Croatia, Slovakia, Czech Republic, all others who will outrun us if we do not. I'm talking about the future of this country. And then I am also talking about the competitiveness of this country, which will be important so that we can breathe honestly when the economic crisis comes, perhaps in Europe or the world. And that's what we're talking about today. That's what we're talking about. And I would also need an answer on this subject, not your personal ambition, but within the framework of ambition. You are also the minister whose task is also the development of this country. And the development of this country, today we have talked quite a bit about this, we need to do some homework before that. The information system is probably one of the cancer cells. My colleague Horvat talked about the establishment of the regions. We urgently need regions because we will not optimise the use of European funds. We in the SDS have already talked about this in the entire previous composition and also the previous one, that it is absolutely necessary because all countries have regions and all projects are set up extremely wide. Today, we are once again subjected to some kind of scheming, we are subjected to if the mayors make some kind of super-agreement with the mayors of cross-border municipalities, i.e. Croatia, Hungary, Austria; then some things happen, otherwise they will not happen. These are all your tasks, and all of this should be your super-coordination within the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u120	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As the last one, Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u121	Thank you so much for saying that. Colleagues and colleagues! Franz Beznik apologized earlier, and I'll apologize. But I'll be much shorter than Frantz Breznik, but I'd still like to say a few things in the end. I have no doubt, I have no doubt in any way that we will not draw on these funds until the last euro. Until now, more or less this has happened, and I don't think it's going to be any different this time. The debate we had today in the National Assembly has kind of cheered me up. She was nice. Most of the time, it did not stand out, we did not measure ourselves too much on the left, right, but somehow we all found that it was essential to resolve this problem so that as many resources as possible would be exhausted. But it's been adapted to space and time, and we have to say that. And if we also talk five times, ten times, it wasn't that; time and space were adjusted. [[…]] You know what I mean by that. Some thanks was also expressed — our government has done so, yours has done so. If you don't brag yourself, you won't be praised. I must say that I myself ran some projects at local level and that I led a sample project as soon as we actually started drawing on these European funds. I must say, at the time, the right government led this activity. And I must also say that I had a lot of support in the minister, who was then with the right political options. What am I trying to say? I would like to tell my colleague from Slovenia Bistrica that their mayor and their then minister are quite skilled, and he was also able to lead these matters well for the benefit of the local community. Let me underpin: 396.2 euros, or 10.07 million euros, has been raised in these two years, which have also been covered within this material that you have prepared. And there's something else I have to say to my colleague, Joseph Horvath of Pomur. I'm terribly proud, and I know why. Among the 48 municipalities that have spent the most money, there are 10 congregations from Pomurje. And secondly, the municipality, which has pumped most, is from Gorička and has pumped 3 000 764,64 euros per capita, a total of 8 million for such a small municipality, even though it is not so small, it is a nice money. Also listed Dobrovnik, who was told at the time that the congregation would even have to close its doors because of its debt, see a fraction of €405 per capita, or €783 million. Congratulations to all these congregations! They received cohesion funds for the largest project in Pomurje, which is water supply to Pomurje. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-09-SDZ8-Izredna-12.ana.u122	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You had the great honor of speaking last. Since no amendment was received by the mother labour body to the proposal for a recommendation, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a recommendation. Members and Members, please check the operation of the voice devices. We're starting the vote. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] Respected and respected, I note that the recommendation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 12th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I wish you a very pleasant weekend. Thank you.
