ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 2nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened under Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Jean Mahnič, Dr. Ange Logar from 3 p.m., Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Joseph Lenart, Alenka Jeraj, Mag. Carmen Furman, Boris Doblekar, Dr. Miro Cerar, Zdravko Restoršek, Miha Kordiš and Iva Dimic. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I'd like to say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 2nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 6 July 2018, with the reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received a proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda or to extend the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We are moving on to a decision, so I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 76 votes against one. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 2nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on supplements to the Health Service Act by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary Dr. Ana Medved.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u2	Good afternoon, everyone! Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members! The departure of all highly qualified specialists for the narrow and highly sensitive field of paediatric cardiology and cardiosurgery from UKC Ljubljana is the last act of more than ten years of decommissioning of child heart disease treatment activities. The primary reason for such a situation is poor mutual relations, this is the inability of our experts to cooperate, which is essential for maintaining such a level of work in the long term as it ensures the safe and quality care of patients. Of course, timely and appropriate action could also help to remedy such a situation when it was time. Therefore, in 2017 at the Ministry of Health, after discussions with parents of children with heart disease, with expertise, also taking into account the opinion of the International Commission, which carried out exceptional professional supervision of the whole activity of children's heart surgery in UKC Ljubljana between 2007 and 2014, and with the support of the public, the Government proposed that we establish a completely new heart centre for the treatment of childhood heart disease due to the repeated poor conditions. We agreed that it was worth the effort and the means, since it is best and safest for children to be treated at home. To help us obtain the internationally established and valued surgeon Prof. Dr. Igor Gregorič, who in the United States has established such a centre, which still runs it, completely new and then participated in the establishment of other centres for the treatment of heart disease. With his help, we were able to be assisted by experts from Europe and the United States in the coming period until we put together a local team of doctors. It has been difficult and long-term to obtain doctors because they are relatively small in this specialty compared to other narrow professional areas within the health care sector. It is also stuck in existing legislation. The latter does not allow work to be done by non-EU doctors without a recognised professional qualification and medical license. These procedures may take several months, even more than one year, and amendments to existing legislation have to be made. Your Honor! You have before you a proposal for a new Law on Medical Services, which we have prepared together with the Medical Chamber. What does the novelty of marriage bring? A doctor who has obtained a qualification abroad will be able to perform a medical service temporarily if, in the case of a health care provider of a tertiary level of health activity, it is not possible to ensure the provision of continuous emergency medical care and this could soon lead to irreparable and severe health problems or even the death of patients. The proposal for a new law provides that a specialist doctor will be able to perform health services in Slovenia for a maximum of 12 months with the possibility of a one-off extension for a further 12 months if he receives an invitation from a health care professional to a tertiary level of health care and if the opinions of three recognised Slovenian experts testify in his professional knowledge. The requested doctor shall be subject to the same rules applicable to all doctors in Slovenia as regards the manner in which the medical service or ethical, professional and criminal and material responsibility and professional supervision of his work, insurance or other forms of personal or collective insurance in relation to professional responsibility is performed. Let me also point out that the proposal does not end the communication between the doctor and the patient and their relatives in the Slovenian language. Dear Members and Members! We are confident that you will follow the Joint Committee's decision and support the amendment because the Ministry of Health, with the proposed amendment, is solving problems that have lasted more than 10 years and have escalated in recent months. I do not want to judge the behaviour of colleagues who have decided to leave group, but the fact is that doctors are bound by Hippocrates' oath, we must never leave the patient without help. And that's exactly what could happen to us in the case of child cardiology. The aim of the law is to ensure the continued, safe and quality care of patients. Finally, I am pleased to say that in recent months we have worked hand in hand to the Ministry of Health, UKC Ljubljana management, NISB management and the profession to solve the problem of cardiology and cardiosurgery. I believe we are doing the right thing and I am confident that we will, in cooperation, lay sound and solid foundations for dealing with congenital heart disease within the framework of the UKCL, and as a stand-alone institute of NISB, may again be the UKCL department in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u3	The proposal for a law was treated by the Joint Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Rudy Medved.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! At its 1st urgent meeting on 5 July 2018, the Joint Committee addressed the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Medical Services Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government and published on the websites of the National Assembly. At its meeting on 29 June 2018, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be considered on an urgent basis. The draft law was tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group on Articles 1, 2 and 3 until the beginning of the discussion of the amendment. At the meeting of the Committee, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the opinion and explained that most of their comments were taken into account in the amendments tabled as amendments to the Committee. A representative of the Council of State took part in the meeting and presented some of the debates and opinions expressed by the debaters when discussing the proposed law on the relevant committee of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons and stressed that the Commission supports the proposal for a law. On behalf of the proposer, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Health presented the objectives and main solutions to the bill, stressing that the situation in paediatric cardiology has been very problematic for several years. There was a monopoly, a lot of Slovenian experts in this field were employed abroad. The reasons for leaving were the unregulated situation, the breach of relations and thus the difficult professional activity. In view of the inability to provide human resources within a reasonable period of time, the Ministry responsible for health amended the Order on the upper limit of the number of offers for work in the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and thus increased the number of offers for the work of doctors from third countries. On 21 January 2018, the Government adopted a decision establishing a National Institute for Children's Heart Disease and set a deadline for the establishment of the Institute on 1 July 2018. The draft law thus allows the temporary provision of medical services to experts from third countries in the Republic of Slovenia who could provide such services without being recognised as a professional qualification, provided they receive an invitation from the healthcare provider. These experts must be temporarily entered in the register and guaranteed by three experts from Slovenia, the national coordinator of specialisation and the specialist doctor, who are appointed mentor. They also presented their views and views on the draft law under consideration to the representatives of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia and the coordination of medical organisations. The broad debate presented divergent views on the bill under consideration and on the functioning of the health system in general. Following the discussion, the Committee drafted and adopted its amendments to Articles 1 and 3. The Committee did not adopt the amendments to Articles 1, 2 and 3 of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. In 2013, with the release of the government, Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc, who is not with us today – when it comes to key issues, the Minister somehow hides – she has made an analysis of the Slovenian health system, the international commission. According to her, Slovenian health care is in good condition, it does not need major changes, a minor change, or a staff change, but that is all. Today, however, there is a law before us following an urgent procedure, because in the opinion of the Ministry of Slovenia there is such a crisis, the humane crisis that Slovenian doctors leave, we do not have Slovenian specialists who can treat our youngest. An urgent procedure, which has been repeatedly misused in the course of the government's departure since the urgency procedure is applied when it is essentially a matter of security and defence of the State, when the consequences of natural disasters are addressed by means of an emergency law or in order to prevent difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State. The severe remedial effects have been evident for some time now. What the Secretary of State Mrs Medved said today, if these problems have occurred recently or 10 years ago, it is not really true. We really don't have child surgery ten years ago, and we had a cardiologist a month ago. Four children's cardiologists who worked full-time in UKC Ljubljana, and even at the beginning of 2018, we still had intensive intensive therapy in full operation. It is true, though, that today four cardiologists have essentially left, that there is no longer a fully functioning child intensive therapy. Prime Minister Miro Cerar said that two-thirds of the health reform was carried out during his 4-year term, and today we are obviously accepting the last third. The last third, which will be the last nail in the coffin of Slovenian health. The last third, which will be a breakdown of Slovenian public health, will also obviously help those who criticized the Minister of Health before the elections and ultimately the President of the Government, namely SD and Desus. Today, those who have criticized, praised, or confirmed this law, at least that is what was said on the Joint Committee. No one today wonders what is wrong, why young doctors leave, why already established experts leave, why nurses leave, why other professionals who work at UKC Ljubljana and other hospitals leave. You're talking about bad relationships. Is that true? Is it true that only mutual relations are those that drive away doctors, or are also possible laws, as written by Milojka Kolar Celarc and confirmed by this coalition, namely that young doctors, if they make specializations in the Rippers and then work in Ljubljana, have to pay back a few thousand euros. If they go abroad, they don't have to. In case they go from Trbovlje to Ljubljana, they are sued by the insurance company for several thousand euros. Is it also possible that young doctors with the Medical Services Act have extended their time frame when they can start their own medical work? Today there is a law before us that allows doctors, regardless of where they have obtained professional qualifications, to carry out health care in Slovenia. The opinions of such doctors will be given by three recognised Slovenian doctors, two of whom are mentors. I ask you here who will give an opinion to children's cardiologists from abroad from a third country or the European Union if they are not in Slovenia. Who? Someone from a related specialty. Who is it? So we still don't have an answer here. By attracting foreign doctors, we may be able to save children's cardiology or any other area, but, once again, this will definitely start a decomposition of public health or end what the coalition says, “public health is what we are” for. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are proposing an amendment that would give the Director more power to attract such doctors from the European Union, i.e. for a certain time. Then it will also be the responsibility of the Director if certain matters do not work. In this mandate or in this coalition, more powers are given to a policy or ministry that will decide when emergency situations are involved and which doctors can work in Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that such a law should be adopted by those responsible, if they do so, and by all others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u7	The word is given by the Group of Ambassadors, Marjan Šarc, for whom Jože Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members! Today we have only a firefighter's action to put out the fire. However, sooner or later the latter will erupt again because there are still many problems in the background of the clearing, including at the primary and secondary levels, so let me start by saying that systemic solutions to the problem need to be addressed. Although the bill has no major financial implications for the country's budget, we know that the money for the professional staff must be provided, whether we are talking about domestic or foreign doctors. Before that, we are faced with a problem, since the health department has recently found it extremely difficult to rely solely on its own income. It also lacks support in the form of a state transfer, as we know in the case of a pension fund. So far, the government has only dealt with partial measures or financial injections that have only surfaced holes resulting from unbearable waiting lines, specialisations, losses created by public institutions, and so on. As a result of the losses of public institutions, 136 million state money were used for the intervention law last year. The departure of Slovenian doctors is certainly one of the indicators of unregulated health conditions. We are particularly concerned about the departure of young graduates, as we do not see problems in places of employment, but rather in places of employment. According to local information, the country educates them, while abroad employs them. When we touch on payments, this issue is also reflected in the rest of the public sector in a very simple way. The problem of brain draining depends not only on tax policy or on general political will but also on the mentality that must seek to include a fair and fair pay for the work done under the term. In particular, the rules must apply to all equally, from the bottom and not to the top of the hierarchy, as was the case in the previous government at the time of the adoption of the regulation, which has further rewarded the management staff, which already deserves the Slovenian average. Such a manoeuvre also entails regulation in other hot areas, which requires systemic regulation and not merely partial measures. We believe in the Marjan Sarca Group that the adoption of the bill is necessary, but in the future we intend not only to serve temporary partial measures, but to systematically regulate our health care, which will be public, quality and accessible to all citizens, independent of the economic social status of the individual. Such health care, which will primarily be for patients and healthcare professionals, will work with professional authority and management experience. The first major resource in this direction is a project to shorten waiting types, as there is already too much money spent from this title, and in particular disadvantaged patients who lose treatment due to long-term diagnostics. In short, it is not only the closure of existing legislation, which is exposed as a key reason for change, but rather the strengthening of the health system, which will effectively and smoothly provide for human health. Finally, it is also the reputation of Slovenian health care, which is an inevitably good example in the world space, not to mention many professional areas and individuals. We need more confidence and confidence in our health care, in the country. This is subject to the responsibility of an expert and effective organisation, institutions, management and individuals as well. Members and Members of the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc will be supported by the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u9	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, for which is Sonibo Prince.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u10	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! We have before us the new Law on Medical Services, which is being dealt with by emergency procedure today. Unfortunately, the situation is such that we need this kind of action, although we are all aware together that this solution to the accumulation of health problems is also not optimal and that it is just one of the rescue plants that is almost completely despondent. Today, it is very easy to accuse, point fingers, malign you or those of others on the average. The truth is that probably each of the stakeholders in this system has been throwing their drop at this fire, which has been laying for a long time, and now we are at it, as the predecessor has said, to put this fire out. When discussing the recommendation on the regular treatment situation of children with congenital heart failures, we stressed that it is everyone's responsibility, especially policy, to discuss this complex and sensitive subject carefully and in a way that will not bring further uncertainty, fear or even unrest to the public. We reiterate that all our attention must be focused on solutions rather than on the lack of additional dissatisfaction and weakening of relations. We see these in Slovenia-educated young doctors, who need to be properly trained and specialised to gradually fill the resulting staff gap and also take over much of the implementation of the programme. Here we will also need help from outside, and this includes, among other things, this novel. The very solutions brought by the novels will not be repeated because others have already taken them before us in their views. We're sure they're headed in the right direction. If all I can think of is the reasons for the problems of child heart surgery, let me be a little cynical to say that in this novel we are missing the only article that will ban arrogance, greed and the playing of the gods. Sadly, though, no marriage has ever been known and could not legalize empathy and warmth, nor can it command good relationships in the workplace, so we do not create an illusion, and we know that it will not be. However, it is sad to listen to the debates especially those that have helped to entangle matters to this stage, where today, when we place money, prestige and our own egos instead of the patients. Social Democrats see no reason to oppose the amendment of the law, even though we want this novel to not be necessary at all. And those who are being reviled by this law are not responsible for this situation, nor are doctors who will come to help and even fewer parents. The real and only victims of this situation are children, nothing to blame, nothing to be blamed, yet they pay the highest price. For this reason, in the SD Group, we will also unanimously support the content of the proposal for a novel as completed and designed on the working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Janja Servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Today we are solving a situation that has a very long history. Children's heart surgery problems started in 2007, which is also confirmed by the professional supervision of the international commission. Pd in 2007 failed to solve any of these problems to the management of the Ljubljana University Clinical Centre. That's how we got into this situation when we solve this in politics. Sorry, we say SMC. Despite the fact that this is a professional issue that should be addressed outside the framework of political debate. The situation is even more complicated by populist debates when it tries to spread such a specific topic and present the problem of the medical service in general. In doing so, it will be clear that the Medical Chamber, which is primarily called to take care of the view and expertise of the profession, in a given situation works completely unconstructively, inhibits changes and planning and does not offer any better solution. We know that in order to plan specialisation invitations and, consequently, to provide sufficient staff for a number of years, the Medical Chamber was responsible. And we also know what manipulation of human resources policy has been taking place. That is why we today lacked urologists, anesthesiologists and some other specialists, and last year, with the amendment of the Medical Services Act, we were forced to transfer the competence to the Ministry of Health to plan specializations. However, it will take several years for the situation to normalise, as changes in education cannot be demonstrated during the duration of one mandate. We need to understand why we were in this situation. Of course, we hear that the reason for the low wages of healthcare workers is that human resources policy is poor, that working conditions abroad are better, that the educational system is to blame, and so on. In the SMC, we believe that the agony of lack of healthcare personnel is a deep problem where a clear, long-term policy is needed and in particular the achievement of a greater consensus between the Ministry of Health and representative organisations in health, in particular the Medical Chamber and trade unions. Today, however, we are talking about child heart surgery. The salaries of the surgeons here are not and there can't be a reason for the circumstances that have arisen. What went wrong in the children's heart surgery between 2007 and 2014 apparently took professional control, which was carried out under the direction of Prof. Dr. Igor Gregorič. Between 2007 and 2014, the safety of children in the UKC Ljubljana Children's Heart Surgery Programme has proved to be seriously threatened that the relationship and communication between doctors involved were not adequate. Unsettled tension between them and the lack of response of the management resulted in non-cooperation, which affected the results of the treatment. And that was the main cause of the departure of the staff from this clinic, a black man trying to prove himself guilty somewhere else today. As the best possible solution to the problem, this expert commission indicated that child heart surgery in Slovenia is developing in a completely different way with a sufficient number of operations and stable organisation. These recommendations have been followed by the government. On 21 December 2017, the National Institute for Children's Heart Disease was established, which is legally entirely independent of UKC Ljubljana, which means that it provides its staffing structure independently and in particular. Prof. Dr. Gregorič, who enjoys all the trust of parents of sick children and the professional public, is entrusted with the establishment of a new centre, and will undoubtedly work towards bringing the Institute to life and working effectively and professionally. By implementing this law, we are also removing bureaucratic barriers to the employment of surgeons, which are urgently needed at the moment. For these surgeons coming from third countries, because they are simply not within the EU area or are not available for full employment at the Institute, certain exceptions apply to the recognition of professional qualifications. These shall apply exceptionally for the duration of temporary employment following the decision of the Ministry to have exceptional circumstances where this is absolutely necessary. Of course, we support the proposal of the Law in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u13	The word is given by the Left Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. News of a child’s heart surgery situation has been rapidly following us for the past few months. The present medical service law is a government attempt to resolve this situation. It covers one and one measure: importing doctors from abroad for, most likely, more than 100,000 euros worth of individual contracts. In other words, the law does not resist the situation, it does not solve the problems, but it does. Cases of child heart surgery occur in the context of the 25-year public health decommissioning process. Our public health system is human and financially malnourished. It is no secret that the lack of doctors is due to the planned poor planning of specializations by the Medical Chamber. We also have too few nurses who do hard and responsible work for poor wages. Our public health services are additionally launching and disrupting the privatisation appetites of the medical and insurance lobby. This lobby requires several concessions where more public funds to strengthen public health will be found in private pockets. This lobby defends supplementary health insurance, with which private insurance companies leave annually as much as 60 million surpluses that our health care needs bloodyly. This lobby defends its privileges, including unacceptable practice in which doctors employed in the public sector work in the field of business for their afternoon activities. And last but not least, this lobby is doing very well with the public health procurement system, through which millions are lost in numerous intermediate commissions. Therefore, in Levica, we are relentlessly demanding the abolition of unjustified concessions, the abolition of supplementary insurance, the abolition of the two-living work of doctors and the acquisition of material through a non-profit public company. Solutions to save and improve Slovenian public health are simple, but for them there is no political will. Moreover, central parties and the right hand continue to decommission the public system. These forms of legalised corruption by the outgoing government and all governments have not saved from it, but have further deepened them. Even today, the law in question does not solve the problems of Slovenian public health, but it only solves them. The examination of the Law on Medical Services on the Labour System revealed once more the interests that govern the debate on Slovenian public health. The debate between the representatives of the Medical Chamber and Fides had one single message: let's break down the single payment system in the public sector and we want bigger salaries. Which leads to the idea that it's not so much a so-called relationship, but another kind of earning blackmail, this time directly at the expense of children's health. At the same time, Fides and the Medical Chamber do not have in mind their underpaid and unrecognizable, generally younger, fellow doctors, but rather the kind of fortune that makes out of the thousands of paid public servants as many as 922 doctors. Why Fides and the House of Law are complaining, but it's also clear. Instead of in the private pocket of local doctors, public money will flow into the pockets of foreign doctors. And apparently not only in child heart surgery, it is indeed the reason for legal intervention. I would like to point out that the law itself is universally applied to the whole tertium, and it is only a matter of time before we read the scandalous headlines on the astronomical contracts of foreign specialists in the newspapers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u15	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Jernej Vrtovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u16	Dear colleagues, a good day. In the New Slovenia Group, we will not oppose the proposal of the law, but we would like to draw attention to some of the unacceptable things the government has afforded in leaving. If anything, then this marriage, dear colleagues and colleagues, seems to be some sort of summary of what the previous government has done in the last four years. In my firm belief, the Slovenian health system pushed it 20 years ago. Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc is one of the few health ministers who managed to complete her entire mandate for four years. And now you want to convince us that in four years it has not been possible to make changes for the better. Four years of change for the better. We have heard everything since 2007 in one of the positions, so Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc will certainly record in history not only as a minister who has completed her term of office within four years, but also as a minister who has succeeded in extending the waiting lines in this mandate, that the mandate has been fulfilled and that the mandate has been fulfilled when the children's heart surgery definitively collapsed. We are Members now before a difficult decision that will have consequences. Not only the positive, but there is a fear that today’s marriage may cause a repulsion of negative consequences. Why? By amending the law, we allow and facilitate the procedures and conditions under which doctors from third countries, but not from the European Union, can carry out medical services in UKC Ljubljana and UKC Maribor. Since we are thus putting out fires of irregular situations that have been going on for seven years, this will certainly result in unequal treatment between domestic and foreign doctors not only in the knowledge of Slovenian language and communication with patients and their representatives, but also in the considerable difference in payment itself. So a two-tier system will be set up, this is a system, because something will apply to us and doctors from European countries and something else to doctors from third countries. We can agree that doctors from the United States will not do their work for a few times less than they have done before, but of course this will happen to our doctors who are part of the single pay system in the public system. I wonder if this law will bring even greater encouragement to the departure of home doctors. Let me just quote daily newspapers as to how much to pay on the day of a foreign doctor: €4,000,883 per day, gross. And now we're wondering why domestic doctors would stay in this country for a few thousand euros less than a day's pay. Why? In New Slovenia, while we welcome the fact that UKC Ljubljana has managed to obtain two doctors to help treat small heart patients, which we also allow them with this law, we believe that parents in particular are not interested in the price, not the pay, not the value, they are only interested in getting their babies well. All they care about is this, and that's all we have to do in our country. However, this law also contains traps, not only unequal treatment between domestic and foreign doctors in the way they meet the conditions for medical service and payment, but it can also mean, in particular, an incentive for our doctors to be even more encouraged to leave the country. Otherwise, it is not just the doctors who are leaving, but the nurses who are going to Austria next door are doing it. Madam Secretary of State, we have only listened for four years to the promise of a solution. And where are we today? Right at the beginning. We are already on red alert – this is especially a forecast for the next ruling coalition. The red alarm is burning for us to adopt a health reform that will finally solve health problems, and not in the ways we have known in the last 20 years, not in these ways, we must also change the way we think about what we can and how we can do as a country.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u17	The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek, for her Vojko Starović.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Good afternoon, Your Honor. The proposed amendment of the Health Action Act will be supported by Alenka Bratušek in the Parliamentary Group. We agree that it is essential that we take care of the little ones with heart failure. If, therefore, we urgently need to hire foreign experts who, under the current rules, could not be allowed to work in time, then we need to change these rules. And that's what we're doing. This firefighter action, as the government of Mira Cerar says, is only supported by Alenka Bratušek in the Party because it is good for Slovenian parents and children. Health care is in crisis. Surgeons are leaving, nurses who are overloaded. It is also good that there are many health - care professionals who really love their professions, who are still making sacrifices for patients and who still hope to regulate the situation. We tell them and the patients Members of the Party Alenka Bratušek: we will settle the situation because we have to, it is time for a new chapter in Slovenian medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u19	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Robert Polnar for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u20	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Let me start by saying that in the Desus Group we will unanimously support the proposed Act on Complements of the Medical Service Act. The motive for such a decision is unequivocal. It is too important for us in most of the debates on the proposed changes to focus on the specificities of resources rather than on the substance of the objective. The aim is to provide emergency medical care to our fellow citizens who have this disaster, who need it at all, because without it their health or their whole life will be at risk. And this is what is most important to ensure the legal basis for children with congenital cardiac problems to receive safe and professional medical care. The fact that this care was once provided by Slovenian doctors, but today it is no longer so, but it must be done by foreigners, and it is bad and alarming. The establishment of the National Institute for Children's Cardiac Diseases appears to be a way to resolve an open case. Today, when we find that the Institute has not yet begun to operate, it is not too much to say that the work plan as usual is too sweaty and that people are as impotent as ever. Imputable for work, but not for mutual accounting. We were told that poor personal relations are one of the main reasons for the collapse of the children’s heart surgery department. A number of doctors have argued irreconcilably with each other, and Parliament has to amend the sectoral legislation in order to temporarily regulate the irregularity they have caused. It is true that this is a narrowly specialized and professionally very specific and challenging area, or it would not be simpler, however, if those responsible in the public service were to engage in the regulation of mutual relations and, in the end, to regulate them wisely. Proposers of the Law on Complementation of the Law on Medical Services believe that this is an emergency that cannot be opposed. They're right about that, by the way. Without any doubt, however, it must be said that this does not bind them to the responsibility of many of the health system’s responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, let me summarize. The Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will support the proposed Act on Supplements to the Medical Service Act precisely because it is an emergency that cannot be opposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u21	The text is given by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors, for which there is a victory for Jelinčič Noblemeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u22	Good day to you all. The urgent procedure of this law shows that it is a matter of private affairs, especially the tearful defence of bad law by government representatives. There is talk of an institute or the establishment of a National Institute for Child Heart Surgery, and one wonders what will happen back here. I feel increasingly that the law is written not only for one segment but over time adapted for the entire medical field, that everything will come into strange private hands, that foreigners will work here in Slovenia and will receive a wonderful payment. It was heard on TV that a foreign American doctor would receive 35,000 euros a month online. This is more than an annual salary of one Slovenian specialist. That's what you say. A man wonders what's in the back. And why our people got away, why our people, our doctors, who are good, capable, workers can't pay for this money, but they can transfer it peacefully to abroad. After all, even our nurses are paid off and everything goes away. Why? Because the government couldn't do what she promised for four years. For four years, this ruling coalition had scissors and linen in its hands. And what did she do? In fact, it destroyed Slovenian health care, almost to the end. It has been said that there has been a breakdown in the relationship between doctors. Of course, they were, because it was terrible, but why not remove those who were guilty. That's what you call responsible. They're the others, the doctors are gone. And relationships are starting to get forged in med school. And I have to say, there's a lot of cleaning to be done and there's a lot to be done. Now I am and there are some matters in the marriage itself. We're going to get doctors from some third countries, about whom the committee secretary said doctors from the less developed countries would come. That is to say, from the less developed countries, they will come to treat Slovenia for more money, where we are more developed. I mean, funny to the end. After talking about the opinion of specialists who will determine whether someone who came from Pakistan is good enough to determine whether this heart surgeon is good enough if we have no one who could be a mentor, but we have some doctors, such as dental medicine doctors or even dental medicine specialist who will determine the position of mandibula is right or not or is relevant or irrelevant. Once again, I am convinced that this is a law that is the beginning of some breakdown of Slovenian health care, as long as it is not yet definitively broken. I'm also wondering if maybe it wouldn't be better if, say, in Graz, Austria, we had a department to drive our children there to treat them. It would have come in substantially cheaper. Parents are now driving their children to their costs across Europe, treating them and even finding that the relationship there is significantly better than that of us. Rumor has it you won't need to know Slovenian for these foreign doctors. This is said to be accompanied by a translator who will have to be trained in the medical profession and will have to be a Slovenian assistant who will explain to the translator how and where and how. I have a feeling it's some Monty Python circus. It's not a serious matter, and we're playing with kids' lives here. And what has this government of ours done so far? She took it all down. And when she hasn't done anything in four years, now they're going to say, but now we're going to do a nice, one intervention law that will save everything and, of course, save the financial position of some. And this is what we will by no means support in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u23	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and on the amendments tabled. First of all, I am putting forward Article 1 and the amendment of the SMC Group and the SDS Group's amendment. Anybody want to talk? Please report to the debate by pressing the green button for discussion. The word has Lydia Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. At the outset, I must say that I will support the first amendment proposed by the SMC for the following reasons. First time. I agree that a clearer definition is needed, as it is not least a frame that we obviously do not have and which we obviously have not been able to produce, in the ignorant, of course, at this time. And this frame takes care of the kids. As the mother of two sons, I find it difficult to imagine the hardships experienced by all those parents whose sick children are in the hospital and do not really know what will happen to them. And here we are discussing, wondering whether this law is necessary — yes or no — we are listening to accusations, who is to blame, who is not to blame, that in the last ten, twelve years you have failed to resolve this matter. I don't think there can be any doubt as to whether this should be done today or not. The question is, What must be done immediately after today? From this day forward, a systematic approach must be made immediately to what has now taken place in the 12 years or how many years it has not taken place. I am absolutely leaning towards this option that we need to start working immediately and find systemic solutions. While I hope that the people, the experts who have been preparing these solutions so far, will not be able to prepare them, will do so, or they must be replaced if they cannot do so. That's how we'd do it, say, somewhere else. But there is another problem that I discovered in the media yesterday. Slovenia is becoming an increasingly touristic country and in more populated cities they have a problem with the health care of tourists. We're gonna have to deal with that, too. I therefore propose that we support the matter today and that we proceed immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u25	The word is Hope Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall. I will first discuss a little wider or more broadly than is always the case at the beginning of these discussions. First of all, I must express my indignation that today, too, there is no Minister of Health. But we got used to this in the previous term when there were some important issues, but the ministers were never here in the National Assembly. I don't know if he's already on vacation, or if he's already planting flowers in Logatco or whatever. At the end of the term, I must say that many of us Members have given up, that somehow the damage done by Minister of Health of Milojka Kolar Celarc and the previous coalition will be done to our health system. But that was a fair mistake, I must say. Look, in the four years of the previous term, essentially the previous coalition was able to completely destroy the health system. Totally. What did the previous coalition do in the area of corruption? Nothing. What did she do, according to a report by Jelka’s colleague on venous stems, when the report clearly pointed to corruption? Nothing happened. The caravan's moving on. The waiting species increased by more than 30% in the previous mandate. For more than 30 %. Thus, the previous coalition was against giving more concessions, in order to somehow change the payment of health services from the insurance company even in the private sector. No, that was not necessary in the previous term. There has been an increase in waiting types, corruption, and now I see what has leaked from the draft coalition contract of colleagues who want to form a coalition, and they are also thinking about using all possible resources. They will also put privates in there now to save Slovenian health care. Where were you four years ago if you're going to agree to this now? During the previous term, there was also a marked increase in the departure of doctors abroad. But what's even sadder is that young doctors are going abroad. From 2014 to 2017, more than 200 young doctors went abroad. I'm not even talking about bad public health business. You rewarded those who did wrong, and you punished those who did good. I'm not going to explain in any way. In particular, the previous coalition harmed the health system by adopting very harmful legislation. Do you now think it logical that those people who were destroyed in the previous term would totally destroy the Slovenian health system, once again propose some solutions that are temporary, today we have also heard firefighters and so on? No, mate, that's not normal. Now if I go back a little bit – what did the coalition promise in the previous term? There were six covenants in the coalition contract. How many commitments from this previous coalition contract have been made or could be made? Not one, not one. Although the Prime Minister in his departure and former Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc praised the media for doing health reform, I do not know how many laws have been passed and how many have been passed, reform laws have been passed. Yes, there were three brief changes to the laws. But these changes in the laws were done by means of a rapid or even urgent procedure, like this one today, without the participation of the profession, without the participation of the public. Now we see the consequences. When I mentioned how these changes were done, such as the Health Act. The previous coalition wanted, or only, the purpose of the amendment of this law, which also followed a reduced procedure, was to eliminate concessionaires somehow. But they didn't think a little bit long-term. This also extends waiting species that are more than 30 % longer than at the beginning of the previous term. The Law on Patient Rights was also adopted following a reduced procedure. What did this marriage bring? There is nothing more than bureaucracy for doctors and patients who are now injured or injured under this law, as it is possible to punish patients if they do not report for medical or specialist examination after this law has been amended. The Law on Medical Services, which we adopted during the summer months of last year even after an emergency procedure, was also threatened by life and so on. What did he bring? More young doctors going abroad than I've said before. I recall well on the parental committee, on the Health Committee, when the young doctor's representative almost wept because she was unable to interpret or interpret in any way, I will tell the Savinijska, representatives of the ministry that the amendment of the law adopted in June is even more likely to push young doctors abroad. But then the coalition "trunk" and the caravan went on. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have been warning the coalition of wrong decisions for four years. We've called a variety of meetings of the Health Board of Mothers. We've called over 20 of them. At the meetings of the National Assembly, we made recommendations twice, proposed the Minister's interpretation. But no, the coalition with some fellow Members, who are also sitting here today in the National Assembly, has not confirmed any of our warnings. And now you, this summer on the old MPs, would have saved this health care some of the old established ways. Who else believes that, huh? Not to say that in three days, look, the consequences are clear. I've already listed a few. I'll add something. The UKC shuts down the wards, shuts down the rooms. Like I said, young doctors are leaving. Not just the young doctors, but it's not funny, mate Jurša, the doctors are leaving. Nurses are a problem. All of this is due to the adoption of this legislation in the previous term under the leadership of Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc. Today, however, we are re-adopting the law by means of an emergency procedure in order to avoid some difficult remedial consequences. But, fellows, these have already been done. These are done and God himself help us that somehow our health system will come back to that green branch or that it will at least work under some sort of minimum. If I focus a little bit on this medical service law that we're dealing with today. The Ministry stated in its explanation that “external experts were not involved in the preparation of the material. [[…]] The draft law was prepared by experts within the public administration." Isn't that a little weird? Once again, the profession did not participate in the drafting of this law or amendment. And if I keep going. Earlier it was said in the introduction by the State Secretary of Medvedova that the amendment was somehow accepted by the Medical Chamber or that you were preparing a proposal for amendments to the law in cooperation. Yes, I agree, in cooperation, but you did not take their comments into account. On this amendment, the Medical Chamber wrote in its letter, "to conclude that this amendment to the Medical Service Act does not address the main shortcomings of the regulation so far." Pika. So the profession did not cooperate to speak at all about the drafting of such a law, the amendment of such a law, such a succinct as you sent to us for adoption into the National Assembly, the four articles of amendments to the law, the six pages of the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. Six pages to the poor four articles. If I'm gonna stick around for a little while while while I'm sitting at the M.E.'s office. It was very strange for me. The law is adopted by means of an emergency procedure in order to avoid some difficult remedial consequences. But look, dear colleagues, the Secretary of State on the Health Committee didn't seem important, nor did it matter to speak some of the opening words to this law at the parental session. I can read the magnetogram. The experts are looking for each other there. I'll just read it. The President of the Joint Committee asked whether the representative of the Government wanted an additional explanation for the article of the bill and called on the Secretary of State, Mrs Medvedovo. If he didn't want to, he was the answer. The urgency of the procedure and the hard-to-reparable consequences, but it did not seem important for the Ministry to speak a few words about it. Of course, it does not have to be repeated that we have faced this issue of child heart surgery before the elections. But before the elections we listened to from the coalition and the ministry that everything was okay, everything was going smoothly, with 1. 7. The National Institute for Children's Heart Diseases will be operational. But right after the election, there's a problem. I don't know if you missed or if you've fooled us before. We have already begun to warn the coalition in 2015 in the Slovenian Democratic Party and, above all, the Ministry. At that time, we convened our first meeting on the report of extraordinary professional supervision on child heart surgery. I have already said on the Health Committee that it is worth, honourable fellow Members, new Members, read this recommendation. Read that for yourself. That's a sad recommendation. We know the epilogue hasn't come up with anyone responsible for anything yet. We have also warned December 2016, we have proposed certain conclusions. Among other things, in order for the Ministry to prepare measures to improve the situation at the Paediatric Clinic and at the intensive unit of heart surgery of the UKC, the conclusions should be presented to the parent committee. But the coalition wasn't for that. The coalition didn't see any problems. New Slovenia also drew attention to this problem at the end of 2017. There wasn't much of a coalition hearing here either. We also drew attention to this problem in the 18th century. 5. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the If I return to this last meeting of the parental committee, at which we were reminded in May of the emergency situation in the treatment of children with congenital heart failures, but see what Secretary of State Medvedev said at that time. At that time, she said that today’s meeting was unnecessary, if not even harmful. Unnecessary and harmful. That the program for children with congenital heart failures in UKC Ljubljana is currently running safely and continuously. So, that was 18.5. Immediately after the elections, however, the situation was different and a necessary procedure was needed. We were not the only ones who warned about the problem, and doctors who resigned were also alerted. What did these doctors write down? Today we have heard that the reason for these doctors to leave is their salary. These doctors, four doctors who left this year, resigned and indicated that they were leaving because there was no safe working environment and poor management. It's not because of wages, it's because there's no safe working environment and bad governance. I'm interested in who's going to do it, or the secretary of state won't know the answer to whether someone did it with these doctors and actually asked why they're leaving, if they just left them. The doctors quit and let them leave. The Secretary of State did not answer the question of Jelka's colleague on the parental committee for the last time, but I believe that, with regard to her statement about her leaving the doctors, she will ask the Secretary of State in her own debate, which is very worrying. These temporary measures, as I said before, have also been heard by firefighters, respected colleagues, that is not the way to do it! Temporary measures, fire drills, if there is, if there isn't, there won't be. Otherwise, if it does, it will be, if it doesn't, it won't, we hear from the media many times now by someone who wants to form a government. On the law itself, and the amendment of this law, I would like to stress in particular the four problems that I see in this amendment, which have already been pointed out by a colleague in his position. The first problem is to verify that these doctors from third countries who will come to us, the right qualifications, are not unique to those within the EU, one will be subject to such rules, the other will be different rules. The second, which particularly bothers me, is the knowledge of Slovenian language. And where do we live if we don't point out that the Slovenians used Slovenian? I do not know if there is any other country in which to adopt a provision in law as proposed by the Ministry, it is said that the doctor does not need the knowledge of the Slovenian language. The problem will be faced by doctors, nurses, and parents of these sick children. The third comment flies to these so-called mentors to doctors specialists. Where you get them is the question. Where will you get them? We didn't get an answer at the parental board meeting either. My last comment or comment by our Group is a comment on the very application of this law. This change of law can also lead to another institution regarding the legality itself. Finally, dear colleagues, I will quote Einstein's thought: The world is a dangerous place not because of those who make mistakes, but because of those who look at it peacefully and do not overlook it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u27	Given that I have been mentioned in Mrs Nada Brinovšek's debate, I would remind you, the President, that I personally do not allow anyone to judge me as to what the mimicry of my face is and whether I am laughing or not. This is very irresponsible of a colleague to speak in a microphone and camera to the Slovenian public, that I am laughing at solving such important issues as health. I want you to warn her not to do this anymore and apologize for what she did. The next thing I want to point out is this. I expected that in the new term we would talk a little differently, that we would respect each other and that we would do things so that we would not share too much in this Chamber. But it seems that with the new mandate there is no innovation and this is done in the same way that it was done in the past. My dears, where are we going? We have no coalition, we have no opposition, and I think we could at least have a slightly different discussion right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u28	Mr Jurša, this was not a procedural proposal, so we are continuing the debate. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u29	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm not gonna be anything shorter than the lady in front of me. Einstein also said something about the spread of stupidity and the universe, but he's not sure about the other. Our mission, all 90 here, is to move the ground of the nonsense that led to the state we're in. Madam Secretary of State in an unappreciative role, she initially spoke about the decommissioning of activities, the impossible interaction, the direction that is wrong, how something got stuck, how something was temporary – we had a temporary VAT hike, so much about temporaryity – how the objective of safe care is, I hope that all 90 agree. She also said that it was not clear how this should be organised in the medium term. Look, ladies and gentlemen, the most responsible people in Slovenia are in charge of these bytes, these 90 people here, we. They're being trained by the government. Now that I was leaving Maribor, I was told how much chicken came, how many SMCs should only be employed at the Drava Power Plants, distinguished gentlemen. Now, as Mrs Slug said, unfortunately, we are saving ourselves in politics. Such systemic matters are always resolved in politics. If you've listened very carefully, this thing has been pulling a beard since 2007, when a Slovak heart surgeon left. And this was Janša's first government, and then Borut Pahor's government, and there's almost no systemic issue, if I'm a little SMC-yevish, where SD and Pahor don't fall out, and in a poor sense, we've rewarded the gentleman for being the president of the country for ten years, and then a few more governments, including the last government, have arrived. When a person listens to this, somehow those who support this law say, “Her poor baby, the goal justifies the means”. You know, we're not POP TV, and we're not Mrs. Rosvitta tonight. We have to act responsibly and we have to do what I am always trying to do, within this. Unfortunately, this law is once again unconstitutional, such as the many laws that constitutional lawyer Cerar brings or brings into this byte (it is even better to hide today than it is between us). There's another thing here. Some particular problem could be solved by a regulation, at the level of executive power, but this outgoing coalition – and now I'm going to take the tonino freedom of speech, Matthew, there at some third session, here I was sitting, here I was sitting our Matthew, then I told him, you know what, now I finally realized that the SMCs would not be offended, this team reminds me too much of those my kind of nerdy, relatively good students, but without some crazy potential. And unfortunately, that's what happened to us in four years. You know, I didn't tell Cerar then to stop being a moral theologian because he would have something against Mir Cerar. Article 82, when it comes to the fact that Members and Members are not bound, is that freedom of speech to say what you must say beyond that, so that you may lose the next election. In short, this, I'm going to be a little human like Nadia, the Shababajer of the Cera government is now being transferred to the National Assembly. And in about a serious constitutional parliamentary democracy because of one man, you change the law if this man is being wronged, but you do not accept the law because of one man, whether he is now an American or a Pakistani, as Mr. Victory has said, that many others will be wronged, and this is very clearly written on those six pages of the Legislative and Legal Service. In this whole story forgets about something, if you've listened carefully, Jelka warned a little bit about it, we are now mixing two things and admitting I'm not paying attention to it myself until you've warned me from the profession, one is this so-called baby heart surgery, there's about 80, 90, 100, 110 babies and babies who are usually diagnosed with congenital heart failure in the prenatal phase. It's a relatively narrow specialization. We have educated people in this country – we have also paid a lot of money for this, frankly, from the budget lines – who are able to do so. I'm not supposed to talk about certain names, but you know, I never think of anything if I'm Styrian, and then it was said, "I also set up an institute." [[…]] Madam Secretary of State said this was expanding. But what have you actually done with this acceleration of SMC in these four years since 2007? In the same they destroyed one whole system, which covers ten times as many. You've destroyed child or paediatric cardiology. One thing that would be solvable if someone had a little bit of sense, you went to blow it all away. And this result that we have now is essentially an interference between double politics, intra-professional politics, because some investigators could also make that Follow the money journalist rule, and the politics of policies that are getting higher. Now, Jelka kima, I hope you won't go as a Jurša procedural abuse, but then you should have solved that Janša government, the first one in which Desus was also, then there was a temporary, here again temporary, solution with that Israeli heart surgeon. And then they started to happen, what's now called differences, friction and so forth, and then there was this decision, when a part of our people was wrapped up to end it, and someone pressured Mr Gantard of Desus, and it didn't happen, and then it went up to the state where we are today. And, you know, all we're talking about is doctors -- when one of these whole systems that deals with thousands of people falls apart, there's also one server that works 20 years in this area, and a little look at the patient knows what time it is. Not to mention two, three, five instruments that add an instrument to you during surgery without over-talking and conversation. All of this essentially destroyed irresponsible policy. And then, of course, the famous SMC floscule: bureaucratic barriers, deregulation. And then you enter an article that is just so widely written that it can liberalize all living things. The other branches of medicine are going to crash on you for similar reasons and you're going to say, yes, we're going to bring someone. You know, 35,000 nets, that's three traineeships, well, because my daughter just started working in Maribor in UKC. That it is a solution to pediatrics – and I could now also draw all the questions that I have asked the previous term and speak somehow we have not moved anywhere. But you know, we probably get to two things. Not everyone for politics is not everyone to run such perplexity systems. Because UKCs are the two biggest employees in Slovenia, probably the largest employees, I would even hope to claim that they have so many people at one location. But you know, and we always throw some naturists at these positions. In every serious country, it's some kind of sub-specialization, let's say a little public health within medicine, it's a sub-specialization at the intersection, if you want, public management, economics, even people's attitudes, communications. The English will now have or celebrate the 70th anniversary of their public health care. They also have a lot of criticism, and they have huge problems, and they also said, without immigrants, they'd be long gone by now, but secondly, that's the best thing we've done. They did just after World War II, which was such a part of the community that it was somehow possible to do so, and they say that that health minister was probably the only ones in recent history who did not throw pollen under his feet. And over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again, the whole sector is being talked about. It's not quite as different here as it is in the academic sphere that I came from. You have a few Mandarins there, as my colleague Kordish would say, if you were here, and then you have, as you say, a paradise in Sarajevo that works for too little money. And now that we're talking about why doctors are going abroad, I can honestly say that I was with my daughter yesterday for a drink, and I told her, you know what, if it goes that way, you're so kinky, I know you, at some point he's gonna make you a movie and you're gonna go, and I'd love to work in Slovenian medicine. But you know, when we talk about it, it's not all about these salaries and pensions, it's not as astronomical outside as the stranger you come in, you're working, you're kicking, because no one's hiring you to look at you for a thank you, and you're walking all over your head. But, you know, this is where politics starts, like science. Do we have a housing policy? Whether we have a whole series of other politicians who are going to tell people, good, because the pay is comparable to America or not like that with Bavaria, but I'm here, on my own, I'm great here in this chicken, and I want to do some career of mine, if I say so myself, forward. And here you have denied in fact everyone who has co-formed this Slovenian policy! I told him we returned health care 20 years ago. But you know, a dozen years ago, 15 years ago, what spread out worked in 2007. We must also start to think critically, logically and entirely, but not so populism-like, which I have listened to too often over the last four years. When I started my second term, I said to myself, I don't take this shit any more. And I will not go pinging, I will tell you in advance, neither with Breznik, nor with Jelinčič, nor anyone in this manner of cheap rhetoric. The whole thing has been driven, gradual, accelerating in a dozen years, we have our people who are highly educated. You know, because if you do some institute based on your SMC, I have to say this, Cerar went over Jansa after the vehemence. Pika. Pika. And then, what, a little forget that for this institute, you also need people that you first, as the Belokrans say, have been rocking. This law, as it is adopted here, is unconstitutional, irresponsible and is also offensive to all people working in health care in the broadest sense. That it's unconstitutional, the Legal and Legal Service has already told you. Probably, there's gonna be some Willy or somebody else who's gonna go to the stopwatch too. He's dangerous after all. If I go back to this area that the previous governments should deal with, in fact, Cerar's government should not have this problem at all, to regulate these operations, these 100 operations per year. There have also been thoughts that this number of operations is relatively small, that with two, three countries we should have such an operation centre together if we are to have a serious conversation. But no. You pushed it further, to break down even a medical knowledge. You know, I could have brought Slovenian KZ with me now, and I could have found you a couple of articles that would have been responsible for those who covered this area, this outgoing coalition. And all of you now who, in the formation of a new coalition, are thirsting for such a law, agree to such co-responsibility, to such deregulation, to such a continuation of the collapse of Slovenian public health. And I'm afraid you don't realize that. Being a quality Member or a Member is, as the very word itself says, a mission is a job, and that is what I want. I want to do what Jurša said, but I also want us to come ready for the work of our mothers, for extraordinary sessions, for regular sessions, so that we know what we are actually talking about. You know, in these four years, I've watched too many times how someone, well, who cares, watches football, watches karate movies, someone collects four hours' worth of shoes that people don't pay us for, and they actually tear themselves away from their mouths. Now, if I decide to give mine some more time, the new ones will be even more so if I'm a little Croatian, firey than I am. The matter should be resolved by the outgoing government without forcing the National Assembly into this law, which does not survive some serious judgment. In marriage, I must touch it, which is also dangerous. If someone is already in the prenatal phase where gynecologists, infectologists, neonatologists, etc. are involved. – because I have half the family in medical school, now I’m not going to talk to you outside, and I’m not going to – they’re going to discover a congenital heart failure before this foreign expert comes, it’s just a bunch of papers that this person needs to read. And every government, when it goes to make a law, is looking for some kind of comparable legislative solution. But you know, compare us with Austria, compare us with Luxembourg, with all due respect for Slovenian, which I love very much, although as Belokranjec will always have problems, maternity doubles, etc., because these are countries where a couple is spoken, let's say, of the world's languages. Someone who will go to Luxembourg as a foreigner also from a third country is expected to be in German and is expected to be in French. A relatively good degree of German is expected from my dear Styrians and Styrians, who go to Austria, even if it is a server to a retirement home. But we will have what, who will now, this, someone will translate this little mountain of paper in any form, have at the UKC employees any translators, sometimes even on family lines, and it seems to me that they have not studied English, we already have our first bottleneck here. When it comes to responsibility, they're gonna push some bad guy who's gonna have to do it so he doesn't lose his shit. After something terrible has happened, this person will be guilty. It won't be Mrs Milojka's fault, it won't be Mr Gantar's fault, it won't be Mr Cerar's fault, it won't be Mr Janša's fault, it won't be Borut Pahor's fault, it's never his fault. And if I finish, I will say, the benign cancer of Slovenian health care is this and such a policy. The policy in this byte, the policy in that byte where the government is, the policy in the department, as well as the politics within the medical profession, and also the politics of the people set up at the UKC. And until we cut this out with a precise laser operation, there will be no change. And what you're proposing now, through one article, is that we don't want to deal with it. That's what I've been listening to for four years, yeah, we don't know. Wait, stop the horses, speak for yourself, you can't speak for me or, say, for Jelko. It could turn out that Jelko is going to the Ministry and I would be the coolest minister I've ever had or would have screwed up the most. But we don't really know that yet. And this law, as this outgoing, recyclable coalition, as I call it, talks about how everyone should work together, you decided six months ago that you didn't want to have us. Who the hell are you kidding? It's important that Karl is always inside. He'll probably be a posthumous Member. Freedom of speech, colleague Tonin. Good morning! This law, as it is tabled, is in fact: We do not want to deal with problems that have been imposed through five governments, let us give more money that will always be scarce to someone. To be honest, a couple of our people from abroad would come to work, of course, for a decent payment, but much lower than we will pay for this particular gentleman for whom the law is being tabled. And that's also a crime. You could have pulled a KZ out here, too. And this law, which is, if you actually support it, you basically overpower what we as the National Assembly should be, already in the start, the Madonna, even when it's not in the seating order, will be able to change whether Tonin will be temporary or not, I don't know. And that's not funny. It's a disaster. That's extremely irresponsible. This should be discussed seriously, but not now some pathetic thing about baby hearts is being pushed forward because we don’t know each other’s children’s hearts. There are a few people in Slovenia who know about this. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u30	The word is Aljaž Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u31	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I hope there's nothing wrong if I don't say Einstein's speech on my own right now. I will also not lose words about what is wrong with Slovenian health care, because I came from the public myself and I also know all the problems. It is known who have been various directors of UKC all these years and to all health homes. He also knows who set you up so I won't lose my words here. But I would also be happy if we did not have this marriage on the table today. Sadly, however, the previous compositions of the National Assembly did not want or were unable to resolve this. Neither did the Ministry. I will support SMC's article myself and only the amendment of the law, because I think it solves matters, because parents don't care if we adopt laws in the National Assembly on a rapid basis or on a regular basis, but they are actually interested in how these doctors will help them. The other thing is why I think it's good to support this marriage. If I am well aware, there is also Professor Gregorič behind this centre, who is internationally recognized. American cities and American hospitals are actually fighting for him, which hospital will run. And if a man so acknowledged, that word for these people who are supposed to come to Slovenia, I think he's going to believe it. In the future, I would like to see this matter systematically resolved in order for the profession to prepare proposals that will solve the problems of Slovenian health in the long term. Finally, I would like to mention the great problem of young people — including those mentioned by previous speakers. I've done a lot of work with young people in the past, problems start in colleges themselves, then they don't get the specialties they want, says the country often leads them, what they need to specialize in, because there aren't enough places available for those specialties they want. That is why it is necessary for young doctors to allow easier transition to the labour market in Slovenia and then keep them in Slovenia so that they do not go abroad, because in my opinion it is not meaningful for the country to invest in the education system, and then we lose this cadre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u32	As I have seen the interest between Members and Members in the additional debate, I am reopening the possibility of applying. But please sign up for a speech with a push on the key for when I trigger the application, from now on. Franz Breznik has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. In my own debate, I would like to return the debate to the essence of what we are to discuss. Of course, I could also discuss it in general, but I think that time is as valuable as decisions must be effective. And also the system, I call this the hierarchy of those urgent decisions that should have been made, has been completely wrong in the last ten years. Why do we have heart surgery problems in our children’s population, and why is this such a specificity? Firstly, to those who do not know the issues, I must say that in the previous country, the issue of the population of 20 million people in this area was that such a country could have about two such centres per population of 20 million people. One such centre was decided to be in Ljubljana and the other would be in Belgrade. So, Ljubljana would cover about 8 million people, because in a country that has a relatively solid health structure, that is, healthy people, where the critical mass is about 4.5 million people, is likely to be those who, unfortunately, have some congenital heart failures in the child population or are other complications. As many of you have noted, as you have discussed before me, it is true that this is an outstanding specialty, that is, in the context of specialization, a specific matter where a doctor must have a long-term practice, not only for adult surgery but also for the specificity of children, he must also have competences, as well as statistics of interventions, which, somehow, also reflects some experience, on the basis of which statistics on the mortality of the youngest usually also rises, which is probably what we all expect. Thus, the problem of child heart surgery is essentially a problem that has already been indicated by the breakdown of the former state. Here, somehow, the problem of health management began, whether it would persist even after the break-up of borders, whether it would also remain in the war zone, or whether it would connect with Western centres and somehow keep these experts here, found that they have the conditions for this knowledge, and that we can offer our services to Slovenians also to foreign countries. Look, I always believe in a Slovenian man first. You mentioned today, I think, ten times Dr. Gregorič – one of our own who went abroad. So he's a top-notch expert. We Slovenians are capable of everything, but of course we need a system that is consistent, and we need conditions. I think this process has gone somewhere a few times. You mentioned the year 2007, the end, in fact, of the first Janša government. Yes, we detected this problem at the time, and for the first time, we called on an expert from Israel who had specific experience, which has also had results and who has worked all these years. But in the last 10 years after that, almost nothing has happened, there has been a crisis, there has been a reoccupation and expansion of some public servants in areas that are not needed, that are the characteristics of some backward socialist school system, where people are produced that no man in the world needs. However, the personnel that the economy needs at this time, especially at this time, are medical, where they are urgently needed, but of course these personnel are lacking. This is the specifics and look, if I turn around a little bit, let me be forgiven by my colleagues who have been in the coalition for the past four years, remember what we're here about, what was the specifics. [[…]] We have warned about this, my colleague, especially Godcheva, Brinovškova, who were involved in this area, I can say that they have been alerting and working in this area. But what does the coalition do? The most important topic was the so-called tax box. They made tax receipts, talked about having more money in the budget and, on the other hand, they increased the Ministry of Public Administration by 94% and in the last year and a half, almost two years they hired 9,000 new public servants. So the SMC client, who came from the public servants, took care of the new 9,000 civil servants. I'm not saying, maybe a thousand was needed, everything else was unnecessary. Again, the specifics of the educational system – the personnel produced by no one needs them, can only be disseminated before the public and state administration, and this is the completed cycle for those who do not know the Slovenian specification. And of course we're coming into the essence that he wrote, I think, in 1943 in Psychological Review Maslow, so this is a system of hierarchy, a system of hierarchy of motivation, where the basic biological needs of a person in society are first, so it's based on these that we have to satisfy them, but secondly there's a need for human safety, not just specific security, it's also about social security, it's also about health security. In this case, we are talking about one of the highest values of any normal society, especially the health of children. And look, in the work of this policy, Slovenia has a completely flawed basic hierarchy, what is necessary and what is not. And that is why we are saying that we need to make certain reforms. It is important for Slovenia that we have a healthy, young population, that it is motivated, that it can self-realise, that it goes into the process of self-realisation and that we take care of each individual, that it can develop its specifics that it brings to the world and that it leads them to the top. This is especially important for a small, small country such as Slovenia. And in Slovenia, of course, we deal with problems that are not, we open them, they open them in pre-election time, they open now. And we are not dealing with problems that are vital to this country. We're not breaking up the health system, we're facing a breakdown of complete safety, see, the complete Slovenian army is falling apart. We haven't talked about this system in a year. Security is falling apart, which is one of the highest priorities, as Maslow wrote in his prime article in 1943, which he cites, we can say, most of all sociologists, economists, lawyers and everyone else are the basis of each study. In Slovenia we have a problem with the hierarchy of needs and those specific values that are needed, which relate to Maslow. And health, children's health is specific. If I go back to the essence of the debate, at one point, I think one of the most well-known politicians wrote: The closer the institutions are to people, the better they work, the more right decisions they make, the more just decisions they make. See, we have prepared an amendment to Article 1, which means to Article 12, which says that these tools at this time, these fire operations, as some of you say, must have a manager, if we are talking about some management, also public institutions. We are talking about a specific management, i.e. a study of the management, the management of the public institution, where all experts say that it is in the management of the public institution that these directors also need specific powers and that they must at least partially act on how the market and the economic specifics work. Now it's basically to this manager that you're not going to confirm this article, you're taking it back, you're tying his hands. The director of the UKC has three-quarters of both hands already tied, the information system of the laufa past it, part of the purchasing service fully self-employed without being able to control them at all and so on. We want managers to take responsibility and get the tools. We'll give him the tools with our amendment in hand. So he can determine what is necessary, what kind of contract he will sign, and he will stand for it. This specification is once again placed in so-called bureaucrats from the Ministry of Health, who have done nothing so far, they have done nothing wrong with those elected representatives who have guided them, which is the essence of politics. And now we have a complete circle. Our, once again our good proposal is to give the Director this tool in our hands. We believe that it is working honestly and that it will optimize this tool, so for the least money it will try to find the best solutions in this so-called fire action that you are talking about today. And this is our whole proposal, very simple, I think it has good decisions and somehow we all trust. It's not about any more institutions, it's just one. And also, as I said at the outset, historically, it was somehow linked to a large part of Yugoslavia, so somewhere to the population of almost 8 million people, in which we could discover both the number of these cases for child heart surgery. Let me get this straight. However, the essence of everything that remains a problem of the health system stems from the so-called Earthling system, Miklavčič's health system, which has been established by the deep state over the past 40, 45 years and from which the media work has been refunded, has been financed by a part of the policy that has always come to the National Assembly through new faces, and this cycle or cycle has always been completed. Therefore, only those outside this circle can find and find solutions. The typical representative of this circle was just the minister who is being talked about today, so it was part of this big problem, this system, and this system set it up and set it up right in the system so nothing would happen. Sadly, what we are discussing today has happened. At this point, we are exposing the Slovenian future, which is represented by Slovenian children, great dangers and irreparable consequences. And I think of this as a word running today, and a little less of the accusation of finding the optimal solutions that our neighbours know about our world. I have repeatedly criticized the former system, I will conclude, also the UKC had top experts, I could list them, most likely the man, the doctor who was most likely hanging from these, was the late Dr. Marko Godina, also a family friend who then brought all the world's greatest specialists to UKC Ljubljana and he taught them in the field of microsurgery and because of him we also had Prof. Dr. Arnez and all the other doctors whom I know, for 20 years, the specifics of the Slovenian UKC, on which I must admit in this part, I am also personally very proud. And I believe that we can be proud of a number of nurses, servers and also Slovenian doctors. It is up to us to have this width, to listen and to find the optimal solutions and to find the solutions that this system can operate on. The amendment we have drawn up in the Slovenian Democratic Party is part of such a small solution, which is due to what the foreign knows to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u34	The word is Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u35	Good-bye to all of you! Some of you have said so well if this law is passed, but this will ultimately destroy the Slovenian health system. Ladies and gentlemen, there won't be, I guarantee it. Because he's already down, but there's nowhere else to fall from. And most of all, because they always say the fish stinks at the head, of course the one who was at the head of the ministry. The fact is, this minister would have fallen twice if she had not been protected by the coalition and the Prime Minister. However, you have brought healthcare under the cover of public health care into such absurdity that today doctors are afraid to write leaflets or write less urgently simply because of any control to give them a higher assessment, even if it is to the detriment of patients, that waiting species are longer than they were, that some are longer than ever and so on and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, all this is happening under the cover of public health, because, like the cover of public education, it is also a cover of public health. Under the cover of public education is, of course, the largest Slovenian brainwashing plant. Under the cover of public health, however, is the biggest money launderer. It's bigger than a banking system, by the way. And that's why there's trouble because there's no money left. It's very interesting that you've all talked about the problem, and no one has said the point. In general, this problem only solves healthy competition, ladies and gentlemen, in the long run. What's the problem with Slovenia? That no competition is allowed in all areas of social life, in all areas of what is common. And only long-term competition allows for healthy and constant development. If you want, even in politics. What's a leftist coalition doing now? Yes, in order to preserve the monopoly. And this strengthening of monopolies costs enormously. It costs an awful lot because Slovenian public health is one of the most expensive under many criteria. On the Internet, someone from the Medical Chamber made such a nice comparison of Switzerland and Slovenia according to the product according to the quality. And don't say we don't have top experts in Slovenia. In Slovenia we have top-notch doctors, but unfortunately they often pursue their career abroad. Why? Because of the limitations placed on them by the system as a whole, the public health system is being artificially forced into which to know exactly which are being cashed and which are not allowed to reach the trough. And then there's a mountain of red leeches on it, such as that famous obscurate leaf for mutilating other thinkers, whose owners, you won't believe, they're happy to trade as suppliers with Slovenian or they were trading with the Slovenian health system at the expense of patients. So leftist propaganda. This is Slovenian reality. The reality of Slovenian public health, which is why they die, ladies and gentlemen, patients die. In the case that we are talking about today, the youngest children are also suffering and dying, babies with congenital heart failure. This system must, of course, be made substantially different. Whenever we open up any problem in Slovenia, all have one root to be the relic of socialism, to preserve monopolies, socialist monopolies in a quarter of a century of a different system. And then there's always a mountain of people who jump into a luft and say, we have a solution to remove these harmful consequences. More socialism. This also seems to be the case for a number of discussions in this National Assembly so far. And so they look past the beams also, as far as I know, coalition negotiations on the left, where another additional monopolisation in public health is being prepared. This doesn't come anywhere, ladies and gentlemen. It will be necessary to evaluate the service, to enable healthy competition and, therefore, to ensure that the public health system is at the same time as a system that will allow for different quality, including cheaper long-term services, and will also have a positive impact on the public health system. Not like now that everyone is fetishising the public health system on the left, but when they get sick, they are going to be treated at the expense of Slovenian taxpayers at clinics in Switzerland, abroad, for example, I hope that now some former president of the country has been sickened. Like in the public education system, when everyone fetishizes the public education system on the left, but the most biting left-wings then let their children go to Catholic schools, private schools, high school and so on and so on, because of course they know that there is the best quality. But the rest of them are taking it, and they're not allowed to. So, we're not going to be paying for your services and your education, like, so -- what do you call it? To protect the public education system and public self, of course, you are protecting your monopoly, which is why all of this is happening and, by the way, Slovenian entrepreneurship is extremely overburdened, and therefore, for example, all of those who met yesterday at the Embassy of Hungary. [[…]] You won't believe we've been outrun by practically all the criteria you can imagine. Twenty-five years ago, however, many of them in Slovenia were looking at a very high level, including the then or a little later government leadership, for example, Mr Drnovšek wanted to have a special position to join the Visegraj Group, which is why we stayed outside. Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of the problem will have to be dealt with. The main problem is that a framework must be established in the system that will allow for healthy competition. With everything the Ministry has to do with it, because the Ministry, a colleague who previously talked about the lack of specialisation or irregularity calls, this is all a matter of the Ministry. About allowing one framework of normal functioning and normal competition in the health system as a whole, the same doctor works in the morning and says: "Yes, you know, waiting line, in three and a half years you will come up with this urgent matter of yours. Yes, if you come as a self-payer, knock on my office this afternoon." That's what the public health system looks like. When you don't need it, it looks like it's beautiful. But when you need it, you have to pay for it yourself, even if it's a medical mistake. I know a case of my own damn self. Ladies and gentlemen, today is offered as a solution to one marriage. A law written only for a specific case to solve one problem. This won't save the system as a whole. I'm sorry, but I'd like to. But look, these things are going to have to start being regulated at some general level. I don't want this to sound too much, I don't know, out of context, but this reminds me very much what's going on today, about what happened last week, two weekends ago, the meeting of the European Summit, the European Union, the informal meeting, where they then said: But now the migration issue is resolved, we are solved. Of course, Europe is not saved, Europe is still undernate, migrants are still coming, everything is still wrong, but Angela Merkel is temporarily saved. It's similar to what's happening here today. Unfortunately, the adoption of this law will not save anything. I am also not sure that this law is even necessary for regulation in the way it is supposed to be. But it looks like the minister did something, and he'll be saved. It is said that one pear problem is solved and generally the systems of Slovenian health care and Slovenia as dysfunctional leftist exotics do not solve this. It will be necessary to make very profound changes that will break down the monopolies in all areas, including within health care, which will create healthy competition from entrepreneurship up to, if you want, other social life and at the same time preserve those values on which Slovenia itself has also emerged. That's gonna have to be done. With regard to this law – I will personally support that amendment, which we have also proposed, even though I am aware that it is not ideal, but better than what is proposed. Otherwise, these things are not being solved in this way, ladies and gentlemen. It will only be necessary to act in a cost-effective, rational, reasonable and consistent manner, so that every Slovenian child will have access to, every infant with a birth defect, an accessible treatment within a reasonable time period and also to every other Slovenian patient, either at home or abroad. This problem could also be solved in the center of Trieste, which has a beautiful department of small surgery, or in the Gradz, which has such a department, and it could be solved there, it is not necessary to solve it in this way. There are other possible solutions, and that would be worth considering. But it's all waiting for us. First, it will be necessary to face the issue of values that Slovenia, first of all Slovenian citizens and citizens, is first of all Slovenian children. But not as it has been in recent years and it is still happening, there is someone across the border who, of course, is not a refugee, he is a migrant, and he says, "I want asylum, but no problem, choose free healthcare, choose a allowance, choose a free apartment." However, someone who has been building Slovenia for 40 years in Slovenia is retired and living with a shameful pension and waiting in the waiting line for a service only asks God to survive until he may be on his way, if he will experience it at all. Or imagine parents suffering when they watch a child who could help him, but no. 123 million for a migrant is not a problem, but the problem is to establish a system that rewards successful people within health care, allowing those specialists to be employed and preserved here in the health system, either way, does not necessarily mean that all public health systems are still to be resolved if they want to, ladies and gentlemen, if they get rid of socialism from the brain and thus enrich society. For the moment when competition will be established in all systems of social life, but true healthy competition, and when the burden of Slovenian entrepreneurship will be reduced, when Slovenia becomes more entrepreneurship-friendly than neighbouring Austria, then, ladies and gentlemen, we will not be able to deal with such problems at all, because they will simply not be able to appear. And this needs to be eradicated at the base. The bottom line is that in Slovenia, once socialism needs to be broken through a window and monopolies eliminated and healthy competition from science to health, to education, to politics, everywhere, and stop rounding up monopolies and establish them at all costs. Because these monopolies cost you terribly. Slovenia is becoming a strange international extremity, from which the most successful go abroad. I know a case like this myself when you've talked about this before. Why? I know one of my friends personally. We were classmates. He was a fantastic doctor. It's a real doctor, ladies and gentlemen, who you mentioned earlier. Yeah, what's the matter? Union of gentlemen who are the only ones in the public health system who can cash in, in their own conviction, because they are irreplaceable and irreplaceable, the principle of seniority and, of course, competition should not be, they began to bully him, one day he had enough, turned the phone and went to one leading post in the hospital in Ulm. And there was a house waiting for him as a gift, a car as a gift, and a job for his wife as a gift, and a great several times higher salary for him. So he wanted to stay here. But, ladies and gentlemen, then it must be possible for such people to work normally. It's not about anything else. There must be competition. Ladies and gentlemen, when socialism is over, such laws will no longer have to be dealt with. Someone earlier said Einstein said that the universe and human stupidity were spreading. Yeah, and all lefties are the best evidence for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u36	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u37	Look, when I recognize myself as left-handed, you'll decide where freedom of speech goes, because I'm gonna start or stop self-censoring, and I'm gonna be 90 here. He was talking about what I was really thinking. And if so, you will pour wax into the ears of minors and keep your ears in the ears of the elderly. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u38	Nor was this a procedural proposal. We continue the debate. Natasha Sukic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u39	Respected and respected! Otherwise, I will not be as graphic as my friend Ducky, nor as fiery as he predicted, if I have any more nervousness, because I am new to this national council. But today, when I listen to these arguments and reasonings, why this marriage should be good and why it should be bad, of course, I must attach it to those who think this marriage is bad. It is weak because it clearly and unequivocally leads to further degradation of the public health system, it further undermines existing personnel not only in the field of child heart surgery, but it will also spread as a virus to all other areas of health care. Our experts, our medical staff will be running away from here, but we don't, I know how, then we'll continue to solve these things. But I certainly don't agree with the ideas of some kind of Americanisation of our health system. What the predecessor has just mentioned is that there should be healthy competition, we should read below the line, the privatisation of the health system and the definitive destruction of the public health system, which the predecessor called socialist. I have to say, I remember the system in socialism. My mother was, after all, an anesthetist at the Maribor hospital, and I must say that the system at the time worked perfectly, that there were no waiting types such as that, people we were provided with health care, there were no additional health insurance, etc., there were no doctors of amphibians, which then in the afternoon suddenly their effectiveness jumped when they were serving for private purposes. So it is necessary to thoroughly cut into these matters. Of course, I consider this specific law to be really bad, as a fire-fighting measure alone, and, on the other hand, look, under the pretext of a noble objective, the path is in fact similar to that proposed by a colleague who proposes the full privatisation of health. This measure is only one of the grounds why we will eventually land right there, so that we will have only private services. We can slowly say goodbye to public health if we follow this path. Of course, talking about the youngest patients with such severe heart problems is an extremely prepared area to manipulate the general public, to exert emotional pressure on the public, and then, of course, to force such solutions under this pretext. No, no, no. There are probably many other possible transitional solutions if we are already in a situation that is obviously unsustainable at this point. Apparently, this segment of the health system has already spread quite a bit in the meantime. There is therefore an opportunity mentioned by Comrade Trček, why not connect with, say, two, three neighbouring countries and solve these cases. After all, if we don't have any local experts, we can take patients in extreme consistency to recognized good surgeons to do so abroad. I don't think it would cost us much more than this. And what you're suggesting is that it actually introduces such a terrible payment imbalance. I think if I'm right about the calculation, somewhere factor 1 to 10, 1 to 12. I don't know if I've calculated correctly, compared to our doctors, I doubt which doctor of ours deserves 35,000 net per month. That's, I mean, an unheard-of number. This cannot have any other effect than demotivating existing domestic professional staff and health personnel as a whole. And that means a crazy system of dominoes, which will also move to other areas of the health system, and I don't imagine this mess, which is obviously already significant, which is what it will be. So I ask you to think about it and find better and more stable solutions, sustainable solutions, but not some kind of short-term fire action that might be attractive, attractive and seem great to us, but will, of course, result in such consequences that I do not know how we will be able to resolve them then. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u40	The word is Jože Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u41	Thank you very much. In view of today's debate, which is very broad, I once again have the courage to find out some things. I would like to mention two specific cases. I am sure that there will be much more to talk about health care in this room, and I hope that we will come to a solution. In my own opinion, I highlighted one of the major problems we see: the departure of young graduates, the lack of doctors and the lack of experts we do not know how to keep – why? Since we don't have the right management, we don't have an organization, we don't have a reward. Now I want to say one example: I will even return to Yugoslavia, one periphery hospital, Slovenj Gradec, at the time at the time of Yugoslavia had one of the top urology centres, from all over Yugoslavia officers, politicians, economists went there and this was very much recognised, today this matter has been in several centres and this science has gone further. I want to say this, why we do not know this in other areas, even in this particular case, to create and maintain one such centre, where we could also come from other countries, given how much more expensive such treatment costs are outside, and we do not know how to save one better reward for the locals. Why do we not know our experts who have already gone abroad to draw back? Gregoric is probably an exception, maybe someone else. Here would be the real solutions that would probably be much more elegant and with better solutions can be taken away. Secondly, in the last two years in our field as a financial analyst in the field of economics, I have also recognised two very good projects in the field of health and have reported them through the Economic Chamber as an example of good practice or innovation and both were awarded both at regional level and at the Chamber of Economics of Slovenia as very good in practice, one with a third place and last year as the best practice in the field of medicine, this is called Medicine, it has been evaluated today, this is an expert journal, and the evaluation was Profof of concept, as was also assessed by the former Minister of Health. I am also asking now because they are also here from the Ministry, and 14 days ago I read in the Economic Gazette that – two projects are telemedicine and an electronic chart, which is fully transmitted in Koroška for all diabetics and has been assessed as really a practice that could now be used for health reform in full, could be transferred to the whole of Slovenia – 14 days ago I read in the Economic Gazette that the same matter is being implemented again in practice in another area, I will not mention it, some part of Slovenia in cooperation with the Clinical Centre. We don't understand that. Concept, this practice is already established, it is already working, and we are going with new means, with new development again from the beginning, these are things that I ask – Where is this area going if we don't know how to solve these things, just like this in practice? Once again, once again, when it has been said that we have no concrete solutions, I will now say as Ambassador Jože Lenart, I personally see as a financial analyst in the field of economics, because I can calculate things, and in my vision I have written from this area that sometimes it is necessary to look across the border, across the fence, at how others have managed it successfully. I personally believe that the Swiss system, this is what Money follows to the patient, who will automatically solve the entire organisational structure, make the market system in our health care - the one that will do well, will have more work and will have more earnings, this is what makes the worse fall away. Do you have any idea how many things you're dealing with in this way? Secondly, whether it is 10% or 5%, we will automatically save irrational drug consumption and save huge savings. Of course, we can make exceptions here for those vulnerable groups. This can also eliminate additional insurance. And that's what these solutions are. Excuse me, what I have just said as a proposal is my personal opinion, but which does not touch coalition coordination, is what will then come directly to the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u42	The word is Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u43	Thank you, President, for your word. In the beginning, a little bit of a joke. God save us, but I'd be in the Ministry, because then only God could help us, and Duck wouldn't believe God would help us solve things. But I have to say what I never thought I would agree very much today, as my colleague said. And he's got the point. But I have also heard such populism as they were, let us say, adopt this law, and let us work on it, let us start working on it. We're not doing anything, my dear. We will adopt this law, or you will adopt it, and others will. But no one will answer. This is Slovenian reality. And if you are wondering today why we are not able to keep young doctors, why we are not able to bring good practices, then you will find it difficult to resolve if I stay only with Slovenian health care, because we should not ask this in Slovenia anymore, because it is clear why. One of the problems is Slovenia's foschija. The one who works well is not rewarded with us, often not, the one who warns of irregularities is not heard, but is likely to be bullied or should leave sooner or later. One of the Members said that the mother was two children and that she did not imagine how, if she had not, and so on, I too was the mother of three children, and you would not have me on such charts. You will not get because, after all, I am interested in how many of you have read the 2015 international report in the original, not underlined, but in the original. Tell me that! Because if we read the international report, we wouldn't be supporting this law today. You're talking about surgeons, you're talking about cardiologists, you're talking about stress, you're talking about interns, you're not separating one from the other. And I'm not going to say I'm a super expert in this area, but I was able to learn. I've read the international report. And as has been said today, look, first here is the cardiologist who examines the baby, then he's the surgeon who's operating on the baby, and then there's the baby's intensity and then there's the baby's. And since 2004, there has been no surgeon, a permanent surgeon in Slovenia or in 2004 a good Slovenian child surgeon has been sick overnight and the matter has to be resolved. She was rescued by a doctor from abroad for a while. The conditions he experienced in Slovenia were such that in 2007 he made some sort of decision, this is according to an international report on page 10, which at the beginning will no longer work in Slovenia and he went abroad, where he is still very much recognised and working. And then the UKC Ljubljana, leadership, heads of departments and so on – I will not mention the names that will not be wrong – they sought out a foreign surgeon, again, in Israel, who had well written in the contract, how much time must be in Slovenia and so on. If I were to fulfill this contract, things could go on. Unfortunately, then, this contract was not fulfilled, and this surgeon did not study new Slovenian surgeons. This matter was also addressed by the KPK. And in the end, this doctor from Israel left, left Slovenia, failed to teach young people. One that he was educating — as far as I got the information, and also after the international report — was an unfortunate time frame, a person would like to work in this area, and somehow he failed professionally, and the other left prematurely, I think, Germany and there he works. So it was the surgeon's problem. And because he was a surgeon's problem, the cardiologists kept alerting him, four of them constantly, that there was no surgeon, and they also started to object to the conscience. The same work was done in children’s intensive therapy. And as has been said, this surgery has been destroyed, but this government or this system has been able to bring down the whole child cardiology from 2014 to 2018. Overall, because in early 2018 the head of children’s intensive therapy went away, and now recently two intervention cardiologists, another specialist, and one young doctor. These two young people left because there are no more mentors. Mentors for a month or a week, but they don't fit in, which is completely understandable, you imagine that you're a young doctor, you specialize in this area, the older one is gone, somehow giving direction, you're not sure, you're working that much, say 2, 3 years, on that still, you're never sure if you did the right thing, and if there's no one, then you're actually leaving. I would be very happy to have a law on the table today that would encourage Slovenian young doctors to stay in Slovenia, to continue specializations here, to work here, not to put a knife in their backs and attract foreign doctors under the intervention law, under the pretext of saving children's cardiology. We're not saving anything with this law. Nothing. Read also, if you want, the media, Sabedra's statements, if you want Mrs. Medved's statements, nothing, for a week comes one doctor from a third country and it makes us one law now, because from Croatia and the European Union can already be made by doctors for a short period of time, without obligation under law. Already today from the European Union, Croats, Austrians and so on. The problem is an American doctor, a cardiologist who comes in, no, he's already here yesterday and he's walking around UKC Ljubljana. Does he already have access to the files, or does he already have access to conversations? Data protection? Since we're already there making a family out of this data protection. Well, that's a cardiologist, I still don't see a surgeon, I don't see him, a surgeon. The problem is a surgeon. We have four Slovenian cardiologists. One has gone abroad now, one is still in Celje, one is in New Town, and I don't know about this young woman. And you at the Ministry and everyone else say that there are no children's cardiologists in Slovenia. No, there are no surgeons. A surgeon is a problem. And now, new doctors from abroad will come, without any checks, acute examinations of professional competences, temporarily, temporarily. But not only in child cardiology, as has been said, does this open up the entire tertiary system, but the tertiary is not only a necessary medical care, which is now written in the bill, but it's also an ambulance, a visit, it's all about. And you're passing a law that says that only for emergency medical care. Take a look at the Health Act, and you will see what is necessary medical care. And these doctors will be paid at different rates like our doctors. Where's the stimulation for our young doctors? Where's the stimulation for our recognized experts? And you're wondering why the UKC is no longer the same facility as it was in the former South. Because they stayed in the former South. Since the system remained in the former South because they still think in some areas that they are oh and in general, and when you go to PubMed, where it says how many doctors have these research activities, you find that some 20, the same old doctors in Germany have 200. And they think they're oh and even because they haven't even looked across the border. Yeah, for Slovenian space, they can say they're the best because they're the only ones, yeah. And the last time you talked about monopolies. I'd like to hear now, otherwise the government has 30 minutes or so, who are these monopolies. Last time the secretary said they couldn't break the monopolies, so they did circuit work and set up a public institution. Now I can read the magnetograms, if you want, I can read them. “We couldn’t break the monopolies, so we made a circuit and we set up a National Institute for Children’s Heart Disease.” This national institution for children's heart disease has a basic classification: Other unclassified education, completion and training. This is the main classification of this institute. You set up an institute, the government set it up, without doctors, it's like you set up a school and you wouldn't have a teacher, but you have a principal, a director, not a teacher, not a janitor, nothing, and you have a minimum number of children. It is necessary to know that in Slovenia there are not enough children with such congenital heart failures to have the surgeon have this obligation to have some more than 100 operations to stay fit, if I say so domestically, does not. That is why Slovenia was very handy for foreign doctors, because they and our children raised this fund. The Italians were raising a fund, the Czechs were raising a fund. But we don't have anything, and our doctors won't have anything to raise the fund with, and they'll have 80 kids, which is too small, they'll have over 100. And such an institute, for the last time on the committee, i.e. according to European guidelines and standards – the English have this comparable because 5 to 9 such children have a congenital heart failure of 1,000 live births, in Slovenia 5 to 8 – such an institute uses, a minimum of one pediatrician cardiologist per million inhabitants, one pediatrician cardiologist. That means four cardiologists have to have, that's what we had, now we've been at a minimum, and not all of those four have been qualified, or four have been. Four cardiologists must be, one surgeon, one consultant – where is the consultative body?, must have anesthesiologists, ultrasound diagnostics – where is it going, then not to talk about nurses, i.e. the whole team. The Ministry or Schabeder, who is still only responsible for the German cardiologist today, is all you talk about. Besides, I don't even know what Mr Šabeder has to explain right now, because we have an institute, Mr Šabeder didn't save it, and now we have an institute. And what else does Mr Šabeder say about what foreign cardiologists do in UKC Ljubljana. There's nothing left to say, that's it. The management cadre failed to do so, and to the politicians and you who are going to adopt this law today, you will not solve this child's cardiology, this is what I now tell you, as I told the minister at the 2015 meeting of the committee, who claimed that everything BP told me when Dr. Klokočovnik told me that everything BP was safe program 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 we have an emergency law. And that's why I'm saying that the problem of child cardiology was created in early 2018, the whole of it, but surgery is a problem, as I told you before, when things started. But if we were to save surgery, today we would not be saving the whole child's cardiology, because once again, cardiologists went away, now, a week ago, and intensifying in early 2018, this government collapsed everything, but it did nothing to keep our experts, our doctors. Moreover, specialization was once called for by the Medical Chamber and today there was a criticism at the Medical Chamber, there were insufficient specializations and so on, calls. Yes, she did, but the thirst gave the ministry the specializations, and the ministry gave the heat and said so many of them. And that was not enough, the minister suggested that specialisations be given to the Ministry, and now we will make a political decision. She gave an additional 3 to 5 years in the Medical Service Act to young doctors so that they could work independently for three to five years. At the time, a colleague said that young doctors were going from the parliamentary group to the parliamentary group, asking that they would not accept this, that they would go even further abroad, no, the minister insisted and did so. The following thing, as I said before, is a specialization done by a man in the Rippers, he works in Ljubljana, and then he is sued by an insurance company because he does not work where he just finished the case. He's suing for a few thousand euros, imagine, get a job, and you're being sued for a few thousand euros. But if you go abroad, you don't. And then we wonder why they're going abroad. And then the young doctors who came to us, please give you a marriage, make suggestions to stimulate young doctors to stay in Slovenia, we would like to do this because I think one said that. No, no. And read well now the proposal of this law. Children's cardiology is just a fog, because it is a whole tercian, and you need to know that it does not just cover emergency medical care, I say again, those who work in tercium are also involved in education, are also involved in research, and such a centre under international standards must cooperate with other centres in Europe, and this personnel, professionally and so on, with all this. But we still have no answer as to how this public institution will work. We know the director has a ficus. Where the doctors are right now we don't know and you won't get them with this law. But we do have Slovenian cardiologists. As it has been written publicly, once again I call upon Dr. Medvedov to answer whether it was true that in February in tight circles she said that two doctors from UKC Ljubljana had to be removed and found a professional or any other mistake to leave. Because we had radiologists and we canceled them. And I'm not going to protect anyone, but I'm just asking for this public inscription. Just this, the Ministry keeps telling us that at the end of the year we'll have a surgeon, sometimes a cardiologist, because when you ask, you won't get any more. I told you before, there was a pediatrician on cardio who was focused on cardiology, he left because he no longer had a mentor, he was very good, now I will not evaluate it, but now he's helping a cardiologist in the surgical department, who was removed from the department a while ago because it came out after professional supervision that he's not competent enough to be trained. There is no specialist in cardiology, there is no one in cardiology and cardiosurgery. The medical study lasts six years, the specialization lasts six years, and you will have the end of the year of our surgeon and our cardiologist. Before the election everything was fine, no problem, our health was shining. After the elections, you imposed on new Members who don't even know exactly, and I probably won't, maybe anyone who is from this phoha knows, the Health Act, the Medical Services Act, all the terms and conditions, and so on, and you put it on them with a pretense to help poor children, because they have suffered for 10 years because they don't have a permanent surgeon. And today, after you've destroyed all of the child's cardiology, remember and adopt a law that will spread public health because it attracts new doctors and Slovenian doctors, especially from the public sector, we leave the public health system alone, you will spill. Maybe that's the only thing right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u44	The word has magic. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u45	Dear Mr. President, the National Assembly! As a member of the Party's Parliament, Alenka Bratušek, I accept with anger the fact that today we are forced to remove legislative obstacles that prevent patients from accessing health services for potential patients, and also prevent health care providers from hiring the necessary experts. Such legislative obstacles sadden me and worry me. Regardless of this fact, I will support the proposed law with my throat, because, as the working body has found, it removes the current critical situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u46	The word is "Ludmila Novak." Mr. Reich, please, if you turn it off. Just press the key again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u47	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! When this law is dealt with, I remember this river when they say, "Let's split, and let it cost what it wants." In Slovenian health care, we spend a lot of money on the salaries of healthcare professionals, not only doctors, but also others, and on the other hand, we will give large sums of money for the transitional period when we are actually doing fire action. How will our doctors accept the fact that they will help or translate to these foreign specialists if they receive 4 000 830 euros a day and our doctors receive less than 4 000 euros a month gross? One of the main reasons why our doctors go abroad is that they have bad relationships. I am not sure that such differences will contribute to a better relationship. But what is also lame and what we have missed in the past is certainly the organisation or health reform that the Minister has been forecasting all the time, which we also knew was not taking the right measures, and thank God that I was an opposition Member and now I do not have such bad news because I have supported twice the Minister's interlocution, which failed to solve these problems. She was running things at the wrong end, proposing wrong solutions that led to an even more difficult situation. In fact, we are saving something with this law as firefighters with a syringe, we are going to put out something quickly, and the problem remains and we are not actually going to solve it that quickly. The future government, the future minister will have a lot of work to do, but I hope he doesn't go back to solving problems in the wrong way. If the main mantra in the previous term was whether we would have private health care or public health, without distinguishing that privates with concessions are part of public health and that it is not the biggest problem whether we have state ambulances or private ones, but how we will reduce waiting periods, how patients will have as much as possible, how much quality care We squandered again by spending well, because a long waiting period means long hospital absences and therefore a lot of costs for the country, employers and so on. [[…]] We have to deal with problems at the right end and not save them where we are causing even higher costs. When I spoke to some doctors and asked them what they thought about this marriage, they said to me that this law, by the way – I do not hope to be against it, because I feel sorry for my parents and children, that they would not have this care and would say, yes, you did, because you did not accept it, but in the future we will have to deal with this problem differently. [[…]] I believe that if we want to keep doctors, we will also have to pay them properly, those who are better than we need them, whether otherwise or not, not with a balance sheet, says the Medical Chamber, and also organise the work slightly differently. I don't know why doctors have to deal with administrative problems, outdated computers to write for a long time either directions or anything. So doctors need to relieve all the work that doesn't need to be done by a doctor. Let it be done by others who do not have such a high clock and who can also do it well. The doctors also told me: “Now everyone will be dealing with logistics, how to serve a foreign doctor who will come.” Everyone's gonna do it. They will choose and do what they will like, which they will not like, and will still have to do at the expense of an inappropriately different payment. No wonder our doctors are going abroad. After all these years, this profession is not valued at all. Young doctors master at least one foreign language perfectly, if not two or even more, and the least problem is to go somewhere across the border where their work is appreciated, where they are accepted with open hands, where they have their working hours regulated, where the rules apply where they have research opportunities. Of course they will. And not only in the field of child heart surgery, but in many other areas we will have similar problems and more and more problems. We know, the population is getting old, we need more and more health care, waiting times are getting longer for us. Health reform is therefore still important. It can't be essential whether it's national or private, but how we're going to use all this knowledge, we're going to use our potentials to give patients good care. Certainly, competitiveness is welcome here, both in the field of insurance and in the field of state, if I say so, and private. But we're talking about public health. We have a lot of problems. As I said, I will support this marriage, but I know it does not solve problems and these problems will continue. But I can't resist because I understand the plight of parents who are shaking for their children who are in the most difficult position. That's why I'm going to support a bad marriage that doesn't solve problems, because I don't know any other solutions right now. However, I am sad that we do not have it, that in this way our health care has somehow been put to much testing, and even more so by patients, children and parents.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u48	Anya Bah Žibert has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u49	Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! I think one of the key problems today is that you're all looking at one tree, a sick tree, but you can't see that it's very sick or that it's very sick all over the forest. And what's worse? You want to cure this diseased tree with some medicine, which will only cause the spread of the disease. It doesn't make any difference, but it takes a lot. Let me go a little bit in a row, because it's a long way from listening to the views of the members of the groups. Marjan Šarca's delegation group said: “We are taking some partial decisions. In the future, we don't want to do this anymore. The country educates doctors and abroad employs them.” Your Honor, in large part or absolutely, I agree with that, but tell me where this law is. What, then, do you see the need to support this law? This means whether you spoke in a populist, totally popular or popular way for the audience, since you end up supporting the bill by not solving any of the things you have warned about. Tell me if it saves our doctors from going abroad – it's not true. If they were broken, if they had doctors who were corrupt, a specialist could, if they had a surgeon, go to a third country today, get a job there and then work from there. And I'd make five times what he deserves today. Well, this marriage doesn't bring anything, but it does carry something away. Another time. SD: “The solutions are going in the right direction.” When you can tell me that this solution is going in the right direction, because in your position you have not told what it is going in the right direction I am now telling you what is wrong, but you see it in the right direction. [[...]] It is true, however, that this solution would have gone in the right direction if everyone had been so much as to support the Slovenian Democratic Party's amendment, which sets at least responsibility. We insist that in doing so, the Director of Public Health, where such matters would be organised, and that implementation be intended for any continuous health care, especially when implementation could endanger life or cause serious health or death for patients, and where there is a need for additional provision of specialist doctors to a particular profession. So we're expanding everywhere. Because, you know, death in child surgery is the worst thing, but death in heart surgery is no less serious. And I don't know why we can't spread it anywhere where there's a need in the country right now. SMC has already announced in advance that there will be a populist debate. In fact, I have not actually seen so much populism today, except for some nuances, and I am pleased that all those who have made it clear that they do not allow themselves, on the basis of this difficult debate which has been unfairly introduced into the National Assembly, to be resolved at the professional level, and now somehow fall upon us, Members and Members of Parliament, thank God that there were not many of these populist contributions. [[…]] But, of course, she was the best of Desus' colleagues. If these were new Members, I would still believe it to be a little more difficult, but these well - meaning words: “We thought there would be something different in this mandate, but we will still participate. ” [[…]] These are sad things, and I think they are the least involved in this debate today, so I'm going to let this go. Let me go back. It doesn't practically solve anything. As we say, we need surgeons, we need good surgeons. Of course, it is now another question of whether to be against this law, because we all know that this debate is certainly accompanied by parents, and for them everyone is not something terrible, because we have put them on this level, even though the matter should be resolved in some professional circle. Of course, I will not support this bill, I will not oppose it. Take responsibility. However, interestingly, you yourself have begun to disrupt the public health system with such a proposal. Along with all those who have your mouth full of public health. Although I think – let me stop here – it is a stupid debate when we speak public health, private health, health care by granting concessions. We should address the key issue: good health and poor health. Do we have good health today? We don't have one. Do we have poor health care? We got him. Because if we didn’t have one, we wouldn’t be handling such a matter today with a reduced procedure in the National Assembly. This is a key question and this is a key issue! And not another debate to bring to the ideological level because it has nothing to do here. Good or bad, just here. If we want to do something useful for these loving citizens and citizens, let us once again take up the cause of good health. Good health certainly means competition, for otherwise any doctor would be good. It's not. The possibility of choosing absolutely, and especially timely treatment, is one where we are far from doing good health, but we are dealing with the fact that it is not our turn. I'd say health care isn't for these people at all. And one more thing. Today, we stopped primarily at baby heart surgery. In surgery, intensive nurses of UKC Ljubljana leave. You could have read that. Have you also read that these ladies aren't just leaving for wages? It's the last thing they think about, but it's also because they often don't have basic tools to take their hands. Today, one of my employees wrote to me, which persists, even though it is already at the edge of burnout, the syndrome has already been found. She said, “Sometimes there are no gloves, sometimes there are no sheets, but we work so hard to burn.” It's our health care! What is important now that it is public or that it is good or that it is bad? I'm asking you all. I think it's bad and something's really wrong. And I won't agree with those debaters who say there's no money. In this loving health care, we often throw him out with a shovel. Remember Jelka’s commission, what did she find in the field of vein support alone — what if the investigator were to be extended to the entire system, what would all fall out? Many of these burdens are then borne by good doctors, for then we throw everything into the same basket and give them responsibility, for which we are not responsible and unjustifiable. And one more thing. In its opening remarks, the secretary said that we had proposed a law because the biggest problem was a bad relationship and an irregular situation. Your Honor, where do we improve our relationships here? Where do you see in this bill that relations will improve? I see the other way around – that we will make our relations worse by such a way of saving as in this bill. Once again, this law would be slightly better if at least the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party were adopted, not because it is ours. Not for that. But because things at least extend to all areas that are critical in this country, and especially to finally know who is responsible. And secondly, if not, then I really don't understand that you're going to press a button to give you a concrete description of what this bill is carrying and what it's not actually bringing, and that it's just another populist flower and some hope for those who are struggling with their children in heart surgery, both doctors and all specialists and especially parents.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u50	The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First, I have one procedural proposal, if I may. If you can determine whether there are business reasons for the meeting to continue. I mean, I don't know if there's a government officer in here. If it is not available, of course it is necessary to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr President, you can find that out and you can interrupt me in my debate and you can stop this meeting for that reason. I understand that people must also go out, but at the time Mrs Bah Žibert spoke, there was no one on the part of the Government, no official. So, look. [[…]] Are the terms and conditions respected by the President fulfilled?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u52	Mr. Shircelj, is this a debate or is this your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u53	Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u54	The conditions are met because Mrs Medved, State Secretary, is with us today. But she jumped out in the middle. I don't know why.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u55	Mrs. Medved is the secretary of state, the only one here, if I understand correctly. But she's not. But, okay. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u56	That's it. She was.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u57	I know she was, but in the hall, as I know, there's got to be a government representative after the deadline, that's an official, that's how it was, or if someone else has powers. Well, no matter what, I have questions for Mrs Medved, which of course I did not get, because of this, it appears, this debate will not be able to take place in the way it actually was. First, I would like the answers from Mrs Medved to the questions I have asked on the Joint Affairs Committee, but they relate to the health situation itself. First of all, Mrs Medved told the committee that experts in pediatric clinics and pediatric cardiology did not go for money, they did not go for bad wages, but actually went for it, I quote, “because they did not have room for professional activity within this department”. I quote: “They have been humiliated, professional and also personal.” As a result, experts in paediatric cardiology went. She then talked about the monopolies in this department, which actually continued to be maintained. She talked about monopolies, and through these monopolies no one can actually, because there are some forces in pediatric cardiology that actually cannot cross, and that's why experts have left. This is where I quoted from the tapegram of the Secretary of State's words about why people left. This is also why a special centre is being established today. I would like to know, the distinguished Secretary of State who is not here – which is why I do not think that the meeting is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the President-respected – if it can be in the best interests of patients, if it can be in the best interests of health, if it is possible for us to resolve this matter, it tells us which monopolies they really are. Who are these people, for the first time, who did this by humiliating “professional and personal”, I quote again, these people, that they went away, because this will not happen again. I would ask that, for the sake of health care, the functioning of this law in this session find out which people are standing here. That's one thing. And second, of course, I think that the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party will make a significant contribution to this. As I see, the Secretary of State has arrived, you can formally, Mr President, say that the matter is all right, but it was not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u58	Mr Šircelj, I owe you an explanation, i.e. I have before me Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which may be opened by you, and paragraph 1 states that at the beginning of each item of the agenda, the applicant or his representative may submit an additional explanation. That's what the secretary of state did. However, the second paragraph states that the applicant or his representative must provide a supplementary explanation if the State Assembly so decides. So if you procedurally suggest that the Secretary of State must provide an explanation, then she would be obliged to provide it, but is not responsible for the course of the State meeting to sit in this Chamber all the time, she can also accompany this meeting in the Government's on-call room, which is in this house. Thus, the course of the meeting was in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The next one has the word "Victory Jelinčič noble".
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Now it has been shown that Minister Celarc lied to both the urban et orbi and the Members here when she spoke about the health situation in Slovenia. But after all this is in this party, in this government somehow in nature, after all, the Prime Minister is also lying about a Member who is accused of serious corruption in Europe. But that's just the way it is, it looks like it's one such not only mode of surgery, but mode vivendi some people in here. The fact is that this law essentially destroys a lot of things and is the beginning of the end of Slovenian health care as we know it. The law is supposed to solve current matters and those severe difficulties, but we don't have any operational doctors. We have an organized National Institute for Children's Heart Disease, and we don't have a doctor yet, we don't have a nurse, we don't have practically nothing there. But we probably already have some gentlemen and ladies on payroll who are already getting paid on this account. But I think there's something worse in health. It's a complete bureaucracy of the medical profession. Also in the preparation of laws, the medical profession is pushed aside and the laws are written, I will not say bureaucratic hindrance, but bureaucratic appliances, which have medical and medical expertise, which most of them are just me and some educational variant. This is said to be a matter of great importance for bureaucrats. Previously, there was talk of waiting lines, but I have to say that today I spoke to a gentleman, he's 80 years old, he's had open-heart surgery, he's got drains, and, of course, he's got vision problems. And when he went to the doctor, they said, "Dear Sir, we will place you on the waiting line in 2020." The 80-year-old patient is told that they will only put him on the waiting line in 2020. What must be done with such people who do so with patients, our citizens? And no one's sanctioned, no one's guilty, everyone's got pockets full, I don't know what kind of well-intentioned solutions, and we're basically sinking from moment to moment deeper. There were two doctors who were supposed to come to rescue our current distress, and when we were on the board, someone asked the secretary of state if they could tell us who those two doctors were, she said, "I won't talk about names." That's what these two doctors call state secret. Strictly state secrets and they should not be discussed, but perhaps someone could Google something about these doctors, perhaps make sure that they are experts or are just people who will be installed in a specific location, and the money will be transferred to any such or other accounts. In Slovenia, doctors are an extraordinary problem and the problem is not because they have no knowledge, the problem is in the Ministry. The ministry should be expanded, newized, established with responsibility, both criminal and financial. That would be the only solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u60	The word has magic. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u61	Thank you so much for saying that. Good afternoon, everyone! Why this consideration occurred in the National Assembly, we have repeatedly wondered. So that in the fastest possible way we can solve one big problem, which is the system, especially the health system of the clinical centre, has failed to solve it in the past decade. I would, because a lot of this has already been said, try to illuminate one other aspect, one human aspect, or if you want the inhuman aspect of the whole thing. It is that, despite a hypocratic oath, one doctor simply does not overcome the minimum of self - examination that these oaths actually adhere to. And this is partly about the problem that we are talking about today. Today's action is not in my opinion to kill nails in the coffin of Slovenian medicine, simply because Slovenian health care is not in the coffin, despite the huge number of undertakers who would like to get it into this coffin. We have also heard the qualification that dysfunctional left-wing exoticism, and you have probably been paying attention that the emphasis was on the enemy tone in the left-hand word. Slovenian health care is, by quality, very comparable to Scandinavian, for example, especially with fairness and accessibility. The waiting years are also in Finland, foreign doctors are also employed in Sweden and the poor and the rich have the same access to health care in both Slovenia and Norway. And that's very good. This law, which we now have on our hands today, governs the situation that all those affected by the disaster of a severe childhood disease will not get a glimpse of the hope that it will be resolved once, but will be assured that treatment will begin in time, quickly and with a very good forecast of recovery. And there's a difference. That's why he has to cut himself by the law. But maybe it's time to ask ourselves what kind of people who can't overcome personal resentment and carry out their doctor's mission, and then it's possible to argue with a colleague. It is also time to consider whether the law may need to sanction the departures of specialists, which will result in cardinal work disruptions in public health institutions and consequently endanger the lives of patients. The law will allow a doctor from America to come and help, so not an Asian shaman. All those who ask the question about his earnings, so how he will be paid, might also wonder how much this doctor himself paid to become such a good doctor, and whether or not he is still paying for this educational loan. For honest-thinking people, the question is first of all why, when they escape from the health care institution and cause harm and fear to patients, families and others, such doctors do not pay the costs of their education and specialization even retroactively. Is not such an act not only irresponsible but also a robbery of some kind? This robbery is carried out by those who have initiated a doctor’s career in public health with a hypocrat oath and end it with a hypocritic doctrine. That is why I fully support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u62	The word is Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In opening, I must say - and I hope that all those who are sitting in the National Assembly, all those who are new Members and Members, are aware of the importance of today's decision of all those who are sitting here in the National Assembly. I am convinced that this very law, which was passed by the government in departure, practically does not officially exist in the National Assembly and has forced the National Assembly to decide on something that is absolutely damaging to Slovenian health and public health care, is directly destroying public health. That's the law right there. And I don't know which one of you sitting here can say that's not the case. When you make differences between foreign experts and locals with such a huge difference in payment and thus put our home doctors, our local experts, and you prefer those you import in one way or another, you create a dissension in the system. You're breaking up in a system that's unacceptable to a health system that's already completely on the ground. Completely on the floor. This is the destruction of public health. This is destruction. See what young doctors wrote: “Young doctors on Twitter yesterday warned about the duality of Slovenian politics when employment occurs. Money can be found for foreign doctors, whereas the latter is never possible for domestic doctors. Slovenian specialists do not want to pay properly, and when they leave the hospitals, more money is found immediately for the employment of foreign professionals.” That's what our young doctors wrote. Doesn't that tell you anything? Does that not tell you anything about health policy?Oh, my God! Does that not tell you that the government, the one who should have solved this problem in the past four years in such a way that it would not be here today, has not done so, and has waited for the post-festum when the government is no longer, to force the National Assembly to retroactively solve problems with this law?Oh, my God! This is also a question of the constitutionality of this law! I've heard that a few times today. That's a big question. As someone walks through hospitals here, we create conditions for him to do what he does now legally. That's not normal. This is a perverted act! The article also states: “Instead of providing the system’s solutions to the Ministry of Health in a timely manner, the health system has led to the point where our doctors, whose education we have invested hundreds of thousands of euros, are leaving, and hospital management is rapidly looking for replacements. Which, interestingly, money is no longer a problem. Foreign experts are paid under business contracts, with only the sky being restricted.” Dear colleagues and colleagues, that's what we confirm today. That's the law we're confirming today! Did you ask yourself, in substance, what does that mean?Oh, my God! I may not have explained it in the best way right now, but my colleagues and colleagues have practically dissected things. This law has three articles, or how many, and we are with the amendment, which we are now talking about, which I will confirm, which was submitted by the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tried to seduce this law in at least some way, which is as normal and acceptable. I hope that our amendment will be supported so that there will be no further destruction of Slovenian public health through this law. And under the pretext of solving the problem of heart surgery — this is a total pretense and abuse of Slovenes and Slovenes and those parents and so on! Who can afford this in this national assembly?Oh, my God! Those who did not do this at the time of their full mandate could afford it. Only those who can afford it, because if anything goes wrong and the health system goes in this direction that I'm talking about, into a complete breakdown of public health, they'll step away, hide, no responsibilities in the background, and so on. My friend Winning Jelinčič spoke about this earlier. Of course, they'll hide like – that I won't say who, and no one will answer for anything, but the system will go to hell. Instead of systematically solving this problem, we are solving it with legislation that is totally below every level. And you, Members and Members, colleagues and colleagues, please do not sit on the government's trap for which you have seen what credibility he has now that there have been elections. Don't sit on it! Please, do not look at this matter politically and do not engage in political views on these things, but let us look at what is good for our health system, right and long-term smart. I think there are enough of you here in all the parties who think as much as I do, let's at least get species torn here and support our amendment, which is significantly better and will lead to some point that will be as acceptable; I have talked about this before. Although this law should not be on the agenda today if the Government, especially the Ministry of Health, did its job. I have previously read to you some articles from which it is clear why we have come into this situation. I will read another article by Peter Jančič, 10 years old. Seven. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. He wrote: “It’s about saving children’s lives.” Thus, the Government and the majority of Members explain why they will today confirm the completion of the Medical Services Act so that children with heart problems can also be assisted by doctors from outside the European Union without complex checks of language competences and skills since Saturday of last week. That's what the marriage will say. The warning that these are the lives of sick children is true. But they were threatened by our own authorities because before the elections she refused to warn the opposition that all the local doctors were leaving, and she did not propose a solution in time. It was only after the elections that the Government demanded extreme speed and even that the law should apply back." That's what I was talking about earlier. Peter Jančič, a journalist you all know. I do not know how much more and what arguments it takes for you, my fellow Members and Members, to understand that we want a good health system in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want these children well, we want a good solution to this problem, but, please, not in such a way that we will further spread public health through this law. Not like that! Please, let's not make a difference between our experts and foreign experts. Let foreign experts be invited, as proposed in the amendment – to be decided by the head of the Ljubljana Clinical Centre, the Maribor Clinical Centre. And, of course, solutions are found abroad, and in principle we need to build everything and create conditions for local doctors to be able to carry out this matter 24 hours a day. When this law is on our table, it destroys this system. And that's not just going to happen with doctors, it's going to happen with nurses, it's going to go without talking, domino effect! [[…]] Let's stop it! Let's not let someone who lost the election now force us to do this, I'll say, a fireman's way of solving the problem that they're exposing in this way. Of course it's a problem, but it has to be systematically solved. And with this we will not solve this problem in the long term, because this was also written by the Slovenian Medical Chamber. Has anyone read the opinion of the Medical Chamber? I don't have enough time – I may still have it – but I'm going to read what my colleague said. I read the first sentence to conclude: "Let us assume that this change of the ZZdrS does not solve the major shortcomings of the regulation so far. The presence of a child cardiologist over a longer period of time will continue to be and will not be ensured. Since there is no permanent presence of cardiologists, it is therefore not possible to provide safe and quality health care for sick children. This deficiency has been pointed out by outgoing child cardiologists for years, but clearly there was not enough political will to regulate the situation. In 2014, at the beginning of the mandate of this government and of the Minister, there were sufficient experts to help regulate the operation of this service, including with experts from abroad. Four years later, in UKC Ljubljana, there is virtually no longer an employee of such a domestic expert, which suggests that the Ministry of Problem Management has failed in an appropriate manner and is now trying to resolve the situation with such a change of the ZZdrS, which also foresees a retroactive effect, which is also an indicator of the Ministry's failures over the past four years. If we add to this finding the fact that by 1. 6. it has not started with the work or administrative work of this new institute, it will also be necessary to give serious thought to the meaning of this project, while critical children accompanied by parents or caregivers will have to be directed to treatment abroad.” This was written by the Medical Chamber of Slovenia. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have deliberately quoted a few things as not to say, because I am not a specialist in this area, so you will understand why I am trying to prepare you to not support such a law as proposed, or to support our amendment, which will solve the matter in some normal way. If you do this, we'll do something good for these kids, for our health system and generally maybe [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u64	The word is Matthew the Widow.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I can't help but tell you that I was with a specialist on Friday, where I ordered a visual check-up, and I didn't realize that the waiting period would be until 2020, but it was my turn on the waiting list in December 2018, following a regular procedure, with a normal guide. So much in between. However, I would like to tell you that today's topic is not ocularist outpatients, but that I am aware of the time constraints we have with regard to the adoption of the law supplementing the Medical Services Act, and at the same time I would like to stress that I will support the proposal for a solution to the pressing problem. This does not mean that I agree that such problems are being solved in such a way. Such and similar problems must be resolved systematically and comprehensively. I've been following the issue of baby heart surgery for a long time in the media. I have followed with interest the debates, proposals for solutions and indications that the debaters presented more or less with argument on the Joint Committee. We all know that this problem has been going on for a long time since 2014, so it is unacceptable that the government or the department of the Ministry is fully responsible for today's situation. The whole problem should primarily be solved by the profession and management of the public institution, in the specific case of UKC Ljubljana, on the principle that problems are solved where they arise. Together with the Medical Chamber, we should seek comprehensive solutions in synergy. If this were the case, dear colleagues and colleagues, we would not be discussing this issue today. I wonder if they have done enough at UKC Ljubljana to resolve the situation together. Did they try to synergize the work? Did they believe in the effort they were fighting for? Was it merely the interest of individuals and their egos? From the situation and material we now have on the table, it is obvious that no. I can find out that the UKC Ljubljana has completely failed to work in this area. They did not find any means of communication and synergy to carry out normal and professional work in such a sensitive field of medical work. Of course, in the end, the Ministry's management had to cut down, which prepared solutions for the ongoing and smooth work of UKC Ljubljana. I believe there are individuals of the kind who laugh at us because they've achieved what they wanted. They have achieved that we have to deal with such difficult and important decisions, where minutes can count and which are in the 100 % domain of the profession, in the National Assembly. I also believe that not everyone laughs at it. Members in the National Assembly cannot lead or replace or run public institutions organisations, but we can adopt, create legal bases or remove legal barriers to uninterrupted professional activity, so I expect the management of public institutions in the future to primarily regulate the organisational climate, which is one of the key problems in the given situation. I also tell them that human relations are the key to a variety of solutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u66	The word is "Cygler's Turtle."
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Despite these problems of long waiting types and in my opinion the lack of resources in Slovenian health care Slovenian public health system works fine. It meets the needs of citizens and citizens in this country, and this has been demonstrated by various analyses. That's beyond a doubt. The fact is that today's changes to the law that we are considering today in the National Assembly bring results that will be completely different from those that were pledged when the health reform in the Republic of Slovenia was being prepared – that the system should become even more quality and accessible. Although the bill seems to solve problems in child cardiology, the way the other public part of the health system places a parallel system in one another. We are now working with the consequences of such a law if it is confirmed. In fact, the problems will be even greater in all hospitals and health homes in Slovenia. This will not be their fault, as colleague Matej Udovč told me earlier, but we are actually setting up a system that is causing these problems. There is a controversial way to solve the problem and the problem that has been known for a long time. That's practically what we're all talking about today. We're all talking about this today. However, this is true, there have been different expert opinions in the media, they are addressing us, Members, but I think that also Members' groups, medical institutions, doctors and alerting us to the situations that this precedent, which is currently being used for children's heart surgery at UKC in Ljubljana, can cause. Most clearly, this is from a document of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, where it was written that similar solutions should also be considered for other areas of speciality in the health sector where similar problems arise, as there is a lack of certain health professional profiles, doctors and nurses face and face other hospitals and health institutions. What will be the consequences of taking such action as this law entails? How will we gain further in Slovenia and encourage the acquisition of cardiac cardiologists? How? Indeed, doctors in the public sector are placed in one purely different position, and as previously made clear by colleague Nataša Sukič, these pay-as-you-go imbalances are certainly further exacerbated. One parallel health system is highlighted, resulting in the collapse of the public health system where we are now present. Surely, however, this will have a major impact on its quality and accessibility, and it will surely result in a greater transition or creation of even more amphibians than you used to use this terminology here, or the transition of excellent doctors to privateists or concessionaries. Undoubtedly, the result will be a decline in quality and accessibility, as I said before, for all users, even for children in our country when we speak. It raises all the questions of liability for negative parallel processes and the damage that the adoption of such a law, as it is now prepared, will cause, and is now putting out some of the problems that have arisen and have already been said to exist for a long time. But the fact is, and this has been said a number of times today, it is certainly necessary to take sides with these parents and children and help them in the first, there is no discussion here at all. From the documentation I was able to obtain from the public media, in addition to what is being used in cardiac cardiology in Slovenia, in 2015 directed towards 28 children abroad, in 2016 46 and 2017 15. There are health institutions around us in the neighbours of Trieste, as has been said in Graz, Zagreb, that can also help us with quality, and there is certainly another possible way to solve this problem, not in such a way that the public health system in Slovenia is firmly established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u68	The word is Tina Hefferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, colleagues and colleagues! As the Rules of Procedure are well known, the current debate on the amendments is intended for substantive consideration of the amendment or at least substantive debate on the law in general, but I already note that some colleagues have taken advantage of this debate for anything else that I do not think is appropriate and even less productive. Colleague Godec has expressed doubts about us, the new Members, regarding the knowledge of the subject under discussion. I am not a health expert, but I know that laws and marriages must be read precisely, so my colleague would warn that there is a need to distinguish between the concept of emergency medical care as defined by the Medical Services Act and the concept of emergency medical care. The proposed amendment by the SMC Group and I will also support the amendment, because the proposed amendment is essential in order to ensure, first and foremost, the implementation of continuous healthcare in the children's cardiology of the Ljubljana Paediatric Clinic. However, I am afraid that such problems, which are why we today are even adopting the new Medical Services Act, will also occur at the primary and secondary levels of health care. We have to do everything we can to make sure this doesn't happen. In the LMŠ Group, we are aware that this is only a fire-fighting measure, as we have heard several times today, and that in the future a better and more efficient health system will have to be provided for both patients and healthcare professionals. With regard to the findings of colleague Bah Žibert or her question, whether this novel solves all the problems Slovenian health care has, let me say no, and no one has claimed it today. Health reforms need to be pursued in a comprehensive manner, and we are also working hard in the LME. I hope that there will not be much or fewer in the future of such temporary partial measures, but that today is absolutely necessary, so I will, as has already been said, support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u70	Mrs Heferle rightly warned that the debate was somewhat broader. In the case of urgent proceedings, it has always been a parliamentary practice to allow a somewhat broader debate in Article 1 that went beyond the content of the amendment, and I will follow these parliamentary practices, and in the following articles I will limit the debate to the content of the amendment. Thank you so much for the heads-up. I have two other Members in this round. The following is Member Peter Joseph Česnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u71	Nice hello to you all! We opened Pandora's box to go on in Slovenian health care. My late brother was at a congress of health workers in Cankar’s home in 2005, and he was a cardiothoracic surgeon with 18 years of practice. His definition of Slovenian health care: Slovenian medicine is at its peak, we can compare it with many other countries around the world. Administrative health is where the sun does not shine to paraphrase Mr. Jelinčič. That's what we're saying. We've now bitten into an acid apple. Alenka Bratušek supports this law as a solution, the first solution in this Gordy Public Health hub. Public health is not only socialism, as some say, but social well-being, it is a safety net for people in the country who need it. In our family, we now have a seven-year-old girl named Ziva, born with a hole in her heart. And that was a diagnosis just before birth. Cardiologists diagnosed that within two and a half years, it would only heal. And he did. So it's an honor for those cardiologists who were able to analyze, diagnose, evaluate and also monitor the development of this. We've got a lot of that. The problem is that we have 120 similar patients every year in Slovenia, and we do not have enough healthcare staff to be able to implement this “profitable and economically”. We have Brain Drain, so brain drain, not just in the medical field, even in other areas, whether it's aviation, take the captains who went from Adria to Emirates or somewhere else, we have it in science and so on. No one's put the rescue on the table today. I'm not even a health lobby. I have seven friends of my age, doctors, neurologist pediatrician Korsic in retirement warns that we have a shortage of medical personnel for defective medical industries, these are anesthesia, cardiac surgery, Dr. Kmetec said the same thing about urology, Dr. Derganchev's, pediatrics, exactly. We have this, and it's all documented. Here I resent to some extent – I will not throw mud on the previous administrations of this country – to healthcare professionals, experts who know where the working bodies in the National Assembly are, to come, to present, to document the problem, to also economically, financially assess it and then to convene a press conference and begin to be the side of the bell. This should have been done in 2000, as it turned out that the medical profession that is now in retirement has no successors. There's not enough interest in youth to specialize when she graduated from medical school. There's something we have to help the profession with. So let us say to the profession: “We are open to your suggestions, document them, present them, and then we will accept them.” I personally support this law because it is the first step towards remedying our health problem, but this health problem is not only at UKC, but it is also in Maribor elsewhere, in Šempetr near Nova Gorica. In health in general we have problems, the whole Soča valley from Vršič to Nova Gorica does not have a dialysis machine, people from Bovec have to go to dialysis 92 kilometers away in Šempeter near Novi Gorica. This is repeated, and this must be done. It's up to us to end this. And that's the first step. But to throw mud on one another, forgive me, this is the pace of passage, the water, the Sava has already run away, as far as it is concerned. We need to look ahead and give these 120 families a year who have children with these problems, some hope that they can be treated in due course and successfully. To give an example, Helicobacter pylori is a stomach disease that causes stomach cancer on the inside of the stomach, you have to wait 240 days for colonoscopy on the Japl. By this time, cancer's already killing you. These are things, waiting types, not only there, but also elsewhere, orthopaedics, pulmonary diseases and so on, asbestos we haven't had yet. So we've opened Pandora's box with this law, and we're going to have to seriously consider it in the future. Let me touch one more thing. The police have a 32-year-old emergency helicopter. This too will come to the table — where will we get the money to buy a new one? Should we give her falcon as a deposit? Maybe. So, I'd say what's on my mind. But there's another thing that's very important. Public health and private health can work together. My classmate in my constituency Vič - Rudnik has general medical practice with 3,000 600 patients. At 73 years of age, he can retire tomorrow, close down the store — where will 3,000 600 people go? To the medical home of Wich? That's impossible. Similarly, if a health specialist or a general doctor in Bohinj closes — where will people go? To Bled? We must see that the social network remains in health care as well as pensions. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u72	The word is Marko Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u73	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues! I listened to three hours of interesting debates, various opinions, aspects, mainly from one side to the other, and also listened to Dr. Medved's words. Two words left in my memory. She said that we have the best and safest health care, so it's good to stay and do this department or to fix this law, to adopt this law because it is so. I don't know if it's our best and safest health care. Otherwise, I don't think we'd be talking about this today. To strive to make it the best and safest, these are words, yes. But we agree with this, I think, everyone. The problem, as I've heard, is 11 years old. It is clearly said that this is a problem not only from this cabinet, not from the previous one, but from the previous one. So everything went through, all the politics went through this problem, but today we're still here when we're wondering how we're going to solve this thing. For me this law here will be confirmed, absolutely. [[…]] I agree that, several times we have heard this expression, fireman, but I think it is urgently needed at this moment, today. Of course, we need to start looking for solutions. There are high expectations of what the coalition will be if the coalition, who will be the Minister of Health, what the Minister of Health will do, how we will do it and operate on it. Yeah. Why does politics have to solve this issue? Where was the management, professional? You know, I come from the entrepreneurship world, the cruel entrepreneurial world, and I was also the mayor, and I changed a lot of things because I wanted to because I wanted to, and because I used to work for people in the congregation. For two months in a row, I worked with them to learn what their competences were and what they should do there. There's a management man who has to do his job. The Ministry, of course, also the Ministry has its own faults, absolutely, here we all agree. Far from it. We know, lack of personnel. You have to ask yourself why there's a shortage of personnel. Who's to blame for the lack of personnel? Working conditions, pay? Pay's not everything. Pay is the least problem, I'll tell you as an entrepreneur. Environment, the working environment is important. Here's the problem I think is in our health care. It's an extremely big problem. And that's what we have to focus on in the next stages. We've heard the word sad many times. Yes, sad, but more than sad — sadly, nothing helps, the right word — worrying. What are we gonna do? Are we ready to achieve this goal that we have set ourselves — to correct it? This marriage is just a drop in the water. We're talking private. My colleague Grimes mentioned a very nice thing, but he probably doesn't know, he mentioned a hospital in Trieste. This is a hospital called Burlo Garofolo, I know, I've been in there twice as a child. It's an extremely good hospital. It's a beautiful hospital. And it's neither private nor socialist, as they mentioned. It's state-owned, but it's organized in the right way. And here all we have to do is get the right organization through, the right people to the right place, not the political people, professional. I'm not just talking about health, of course. You know, an event happened a few days ago, and it also shook that sector, and probably the secretary of state knows that Dr. Brecelj fell off a tree and broke his arm and ribs, and the entire cancer ward is now in crisis because of one man missing there. There's a problem. There's a big problem here, that's all. Here's where we need to get solutions, here's the kind of stuff we need to refer to. Not me or not to confirm the law today. The marriage has to be confirmed, and it's over! This is now an intervention matter that needs to be corrected, and we need to get surgeons, just what needs to be done. That is why we, the Party of Alenka Bratusek, will vote in favour, above all, I repeat, for reasons of urgency and responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u74	With this, we have exhausted the list of debaters. Would anyone else like to discuss Article 1? More. I guess it's still an interest, so I'm launching the application. Please log in by pressing the speak key. Five panellists have been reported. At this point, I will adjourn the meeting of the assembly and we will continue with the panellists, exactly five minutes after four o'clock. (The sitting was suspended at 15.53 and resumed at 16.05.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u75	Members and Members of Parliament, we continue to hold a suspended 2nd extraordinary session. Due to small technical difficulties, I would like to ask you to report to the debate once again, Members and Members who wish to discuss Article 1. Now I'm gonna start the application. Please sign up. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u76	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! For four hours now, we are listening to this debate about the completion of the Medical Service Act, and I must say that it saddens me that we have to discuss this today, because when we adopted the Medical Services Act, we were warned about certain things, we were not heard. Because the marriage itself has a hole, it is said, that doctors from the European Union can be employed, and other doctors can't. But this thing isn't gonna save these parents and sick kids right now. Parents absolutely want the treatment of children in Slovenia, and this treatment must be quality and especially safe. Sadly, our doctors who have been educated in our health system have spent six years in medical school, six years in specialization, and then all the specializations elsewhere are leaving this center or UKC. You have to ask yourself where the management was. Management in this role did not play its part and its work. Any good management would ask each of these outgoing doctors why he's leaving, whether it's the cause of the pay or the problem in communication or the problem on the team or there are other reasons. I just don't know if this was done, but this interpretation, which was given by the Ministry to leave because of their personal relations, is absolutely unacceptable to me. Doctors have been trained to heal people, I believe that there is no connection on the team where there is no cooperation, no positive climate, very hard work, but who needs to make order? Red needs to take the lead. The professional director or the professional director must play his or her part and the directors must play his or her part. During 2014-2018, several directors were replaced in the UKC itself. We all know what was going on, I don't want to, not at all, make a mistake, but I believe that things have to be solved in a different way. That we have a law on the table today that we can hire foreign doctors while ours are going abroad, is I don't know, I don't even have words to put into words for that. [[…]] It is crucial for me to ensure the safe and quality treatment of these patients, these children. I really don't know how many of these operations in Slovenia, but thank God we have few of these operations. In any case, we should think about getting together to make a wider center, where we would come from other countries, but as we had a debate on this in 2015 – did we do something in 2 or 3 years? Nothing, we are in such a situation, Members of Parliament, has been forced to resolve matters today by law. We're solving health problems with the law itself, I think that's really unacceptable. I don't think the Medical Chamber has played its part in all this time either. Specialisations have been called for, of course, in agreement with the Ministry, but I believe that the Ministry has not even deepened if it has received a reasoned proposal on the table, whose specialisations will be called upon, whether the records were not appropriate, of course they have confirmed this. I'm not here to defend the ministry, but somehow I'm throwing the ball at the Medical Chamber, because I believe they had all the arguments, that they knew where there was a shortage of doctors, where specializations were needed, and what had to be done. I'm afraid and I wish that this law and this pattern that we're going to adopt today would not happen to be any kind of practice. We simply must not allow our doctors to go abroad, but we will hire foreigners, this is unacceptable. Although we wanted to prepare legislation in the previous term by somehow committing doctors after specialization to remain in Slovenia for a certain period of time to practice. We failed at all. But here's to wondering why people are leaving. Is there really a problem in salary? I don't think so. There's a lot of problems in the organization of the work itself. This is where management has to play its part. The operation of the National Institute – great, wonderful, excellent; but as the State Secretary mentioned, it is a circuit. The university clinical centre should have this department within its own framework, because it would not then be a matter of partial interest, then there would be no invoices, because we know that the operation will be necessary on the team, you need an anesthesiologist and all the other things. Certain services will have to be paid directly to the University Clinical Centre. Are we aware that this will undermine the service? I think there's a lot to think about here. I must certainly stress that the profession has to play its part; politics must not go ahead. Any greed for money here must not prevail. Reason must prevail, care must prevail. Today we are saving only one part of this system. There's more to these problems than we know. We also know that a doctor who does not have enough surgery does not feel qualified enough. On the one hand, doctors in this context understand that they leave the University Clinical Center, because if we have 80-100 operations at the annual level and the standard is 120-250, depending on the specifics of operations, I believe that the doctor is very difficult. We should make an effort to look for possibilities of integration, connection with foreign countries, where we would acquire an additional routine; and to stay in the domestic environment, Slovenia, where we have such cases. I sincerely hope that there will be as few such cases as possible, that children will be born with a congenital heart failure. But it is true that things need to be taken into our hands. The management, once again, must play its part, including the Ministry of Health, to talk to doctors who are leaving, what are the reasons for their departure and what we can do. I believe that, with common powers, with talks, agreements, solutions can also be found; this is crucial to me. However, it is crucial that we provide children with safe, quality, publicly accessible health care. We must be aware of the need to ensure a 24-hour doctor's presence. We may experience the birth of a child who will need help within a few hours. Any transport of such a child can be risky. We must not afford to lose precious lives at the expense of misunderstandings, at the expense of mutual relations. It's really time to end this. This law is what it is. I wish this hadn't happened, but the thing is, we need doctors, because we need to ensure continuity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u77	The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Despite all the concerns I have raised and will be, it is difficult to oppose the solution we call fire-fighting. When the fire happens, we don't think where it burns, why it burns; but we come and put it out. It is sad to note, however, that at least the entire mandate, the previous mandate, which I have been here, has been a medical problem; however, I believe that this long beard has been drawn for much longer, and we know that our public health system is human and financially malnourished. But interestingly enough, none of the current negotiations in the future coalition you are talking about somehow wants to bite into this sour apple and take over the Ministry of Health and say – I know how I will solve these problems or solve them. In the previous term, we have found that those who want to set up a health center will have to walk around with bodyguards because health care is precisely because we are all dependent on it, on those children who are not yet born, from cradle to grave is accompanied by the need for health services, the target of terrible appetites and lobbying. We've heard this on the board of representatives of the ministry, we hear this over and over again from all sides, and whoever wants to clean this up will have to be very brave. I would like to refer to my colleague from New Slovenia, Mr Vrtovac, who said that this law restores health care twenty years ago. If I use freedom of speech, God willing to return twenty years ago, because twenty years ago, however, we did not have waiting species, there were not so many doctors of amphibians, there were not all of these lobbyings, there were no insurance companies, which we give them as much as 60 million a year in the form of profits that we would bloodyly need in the public health sector. I have heard here several times from the representatives of Alenka Bratušek mentioned socialism. We do not now speak ideologically – socialism, capitalism; but the fact is that the public health system has been broken down for the last 25 years, because the main items are that the market will regulate everything. Sorry, the public good doesn't have much to do with the market. Deregulation, liberalisation cannot bring any good for the public interest. Above all, I find it unacceptable that the people we have trained – this is our investment, training doctors is our investment in our health care – are going to possibly better paid jobs abroad while we import others. Apparently, no one takes Hippocrates' oaths seriously anymore. Extorting doctors for higher wages, endangering lives and endangering the lives of innocent children, is unacceptable, and here we have a whole bunch of lobbying and some interests, which have been subject to management and politics for 25 years now, and allowing the medical lobby, along with the insurance lobby, to force us all to save our lives. And when we get to the kids and to their sick hearts, we're the most sensitive. At that time, we can do many things emotionally shaken to let go to save and cut the Gordy knot. This is immoral and here is the responsibility of the profession, not us – politicians. Politics has done its part to tolerate this breakdown of the public health system for 25 years. I do not agree with this law to save public health. I think that this law helps us to rest public health because whenever I talk to doctors, say concessionaires, the solution would be to privatise the whole UKC. And it's all going this way. Everything goes this way to show how public health doesn't work. But again, I emphasize, it's working. And it would have worked if the profession had done its job. We're wondering why we have a brain drain. Relations alone can't be the cause; they can't just pay. Those appointed — ministers, managers, directors of public health institutions — should take a certain responsibility. In the absence of systemic solutions, we have a rather strange practice when a lawyer who is sufficiently accepted becomes an intermediary when importing, say, anesthetists and thus works business. These are, excuse me, unacceptable practices that all of us allow on behalf of some deregulation and liberalisation. In health, it's a thing we shouldn't even talk about. We know what the public health system is and what the public good is, and we should definitely protect it all the time. Nobody mentions nurses when they talk about well-paid doctors. We also lack them, and nurses also go abroad because they are not respected here, they are not well paid and they are hard to survive. The policy also carries its toxic relations to public institutions. And also doctors are under various pressures, so I think that the next minister really has to go through a complete reorganisation; because with this law, however we put out the fire, it is written down for the whole tertiary sector and is only the first step in a worrying direction. Of course, we won't be able to fix things overnight, but the doctors of the amphibian are a big problem. Doctors drain themselves in the afternoon, drain the state budget, drain patients who have to wait for how long, most often too long, for review and therapy. Whether you are a private person or a doctor in a public institution is essential. The second thing is, as I mentioned earlier, supplementary health insurance, EUR 60 million a year needs to be returned to the healthcare system. We're not rich enough to donate and throw money away. The doctor's lobby constantly defends the privileges. Public procurement; we know, and when we had a vein support investigator in the previous term, we have heard many times that our medical devices are more expensive than those in neighbouring countries. Why? Because we have so many and so many intermediaries. How can we afford such a system that exhausts our treasury, our patients, and the entire public health system again. And we have proposed that we have a common public procurement system, where the state institution will buy directly from the manufacturer, and then there will be no intermediaries, no commissions. The Court of Auditors said that this was a great idea; but the interests of these lobbyists sometimes sit for Members who then press the button. When we discuss, everyone is for, all for transparency, all for honest action; but when that button comes, oh, how hard it is to press the right button. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I really want this problem to be resolved constructively and that we will no longer allow our health system to wear out at all ends, and then, as today, we will put out fires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u79	Blaž Pavlin has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u80	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Representative of the Government! Today’s adoption is likely to be an acute solution to the situation in one section of Ljubljana’s pediatrics. However, I fear there will be more problems in the future. In such intervention solutions as in this law, we are once again witnessing that one condition applies to Slovenian doctors and doctors within the European Union; the other to all other doctors. As was the case when Magna arrived in Maribor, when it was necessary to adopt a special intervention law that it was possible to start construction, to start only an investment in Maribor, we are now solving the health problem. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that such a state and such conduct is extremely unacceptable for a normal country. In my opinion, it is not a matter of private or state health, but it is a matter of good health. It's not a medical problem, but it's a medical problem. Most health care in Slovenia is public and obviously not a good organisation in this public health sector, for which it is not the profession responsible, but in my opinion the current policy in the government, at the Ministry of Health. I also think that the main problem in the Slovenian health system is the monopoly of basic health insurance, but not the possibility of supplementary health insurance. We have the right to decide where to put 29 euros; however, we have no choice as to where most of the money goes in the healthcare sector. As a result, corruption in public procurement and other health irregularities follow. Finally, I would ask the Secretary of State to answer at the end of the debate a number of questions raised in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u81	The word Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Representatives of the Ministry of Health, dear colleagues and colleagues! Before I apply parliamentary practice and identify myself with the proposed amendments to Article 1 and then give a little wider light to the issue, I would like to highlight my great disappointment with some debaters who do not want to take political responsibility for a political decision. I hear questions here – Why us, politics? Why isn't he an expert? Why not management? What do we have to do with this? Ladies and gentlemen, I see here that there is a lack of political expertise in this house. Let us see who is the most important administration of the University Clinical Centre in Ljubljana. This is the institution's world, according to the Departments Act, because it's a public institution. The University Clinical Centre Ljubljana has 11 members in the world of the Institute. Six members are appointed founder. Who's the Founder? Republic of Slovenia. Who puts these six members who represent the founder's interests? Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So it's politics. Who's calling the government? The National Assembly. Please don't move out here now if we have nothing to do with this. Politics has a key role to play. And thank God it is, because otherwise everything is left to anarchy. Everyone listed, the world of the institution, the management and the profession, as you say, must all act within the framework of the laws adopted by this house. I do not know any of these six representatives from the founder of UKC Ljubljana; but if you ask SMC, Desus and SD, they will know exactly what they will say: So much for now that we have nothing to do with it. I hear that a little too often in this call of the National Assembly. I'm sorry, I don't want to lecture, but we're here because we've been sent here by people to make responsible decisions for our citizens and citizens. And now to the amendments to Article 1, the SMC is a proponent, I understand them more or less as if this amendment is more or less editorial in itself, because it speaks of some terminology coordination, I have no problem with this amendment. As for the amendment to Article 1 of the SDS colleagues and colleagues, you say and say yourself, it is the director of the institution who is responsible who is most responsible who must act in accordance with the legislation. Is there something wrong with that? I don't have a problem with that. Responsibility in our society is a terrible problem, political and even sometimes professional. Why are we now adopting this so-called medical law following an emergency? Due to severe staffing difficulties in children's cardiology, as well as the establishment of the National Institute for Children's Heart Disease. We need to be clear here why. And I think we know the answer to why we're leaving with specialists, including nurses, the best experts. They leave for the better, not for the better; they leave for the better, because the environment they go to obviously offers them a better environment for their own personal or professional development, and probably for the sake of wages, because we live on money. I often say that human resources policy is the queen of all policies. So, again, this management and policy and the competent ministry have apparently been poorly cared for and poorly cared for the human resources policy of our entire health system. I have to point my finger at the government here, because I'm sure there's not a Ministry of Health that determines what number of admissions places will be in one and the other med school or one of the health schools. And if I am already at health schools or schools that train people for health activities, then here I see that again we who come from the periphery and that the Slovenian periphery, especially North-East Slovenia, are handicapped. Yes, disabled because, say, our students in Pomour have to pay for medical care education themselves; elsewhere in Slovenia, educational institutions have concessions; but this is not the topic. However, I would like to point out something, because in the stage of coalition negotiations, both of them and of others, I sincerely wish that this time too, the eighth composition of the National Assembly made mistakes, as made by the outgoing coalition in 2014. To be fair, we had a very serious negotiation with the SMC at the time, and then after a few negotiations, we split up in the area of health. Why? Because we have offered, as today, system solutions to modernise the entire health system. See our program – Health system, modernisation, is 30, maybe 40 pages. It is true; what we have today is a fire intervention. The minister, then a candidate for the Minister of Health, just said she didn't accept our solutions, she didn't accept us. She must have had political support in the almost very accurate coalition at the time. The Minister has therefore proposed solutions that have led, ladies and gentlemen, to the situation we have today; we have proposed and proposed systemic solutions. We have enough capacity in this country, I'm sure. We have fantastic achievements in Slovenian medicine, world literature about them writes. We have capacity, we have good doctors, we have nurses, and I'm very sorry that today some of us, when they accompany us, get a bad feeling that we're just criticizing them. Some even say – let the profession handle it, we have nothing to do with it. But we actually did nothing in the area of health in a time of independence, a 27-year-old country, which means that we are still in some concept of a previous surviving system or regime. That's what the OECD reminds us of if you don't believe me. I'm sure some of them don't. And we need competitiveness in our health system, both in the field of the provision of services and in the field of insurance. Of course, this is a debate that can now go into epic breadth and certainly will not bring anything to the solution itself; but I would like to encourage this debate that, however, those who negotiate, we negotiate about a government, we put these solutions very precisely into a coalition treaty. If it is not exact, there will be nothing out of it, absolutely nothing, and we will constantly and increasingly deal with interventions, with intervention laws. A lot of you said it was a firefight. I agree. Firefighters just come in for an intervention to put out the fire. Why? Because a fire does a lot of damage, but it also does damage to the water the firefighters use to put out the fire. And also with this law there is a new harm that has been said about you many times, and I will not repeat it now. Sometimes, New Slovenia is obvious to us to privatize everything. That's not true. Once again and a hundred more and again, we are for solid, robust public health. Public health. We need to be aware of what it means to be public. Publicly, what is financed by public money is from a public monstrosity in which we all invest money. And, as it is said, mandatory competitiveness in the field of service delivery and insurance. And also, public health must also be assisted by the private sector if you want – private health. Some of you don't want to hear this, so I'll tell you on the case. I've described it once or twice here, and perhaps now again for new colleagues and colleagues. In Prekmurje, in the municipality of Tišina we have a great case of public-private partnership, where some money was given by the congregation, three times more, that is a few hundred thousand. And he gave it to a private doctor. He restored one of the ruins that was called the castle, but it was a ruins, and today he has a fantastic, I call this microclinic to play your heart when you see the object and when you see the services running there. But I've been critical of a few times to a minister who, unfortunately, is here today, I can't say hello, but who wouldn't let this doctor and his family work. And that's a policy issue that won't let you work. Is this doctor now corrupt because he has invested 600,000 euros in his money? Read it. You'll Google it in the newspaper articles. Is that a problem? Treatment is more expensive every day and we simply will not be able to finance all treatment with contributions from the state Treasury. You know what medicine costs $150,000. It's not going to work, it's not going to go from public health to public health, it's not going to go to investment. If someone's willing to go into the walls, put 600 grand into the equipment, so that when he's retired for ten years, he'll pay off those loans, why don't we open the door, where's the problem?Oh, my God! And we have to, and very quickly, do something, otherwise our waiting types will be prolonged, and this is the trend. I have just looked at the report of the National Institute of Public Health and in fact the person is not satisfied with seeing these numbers, how many people are waiting for some specialized interventions, reviews; for some less time, and for some incomprehensible long. And now I'm closing. As a Member of Parliament, the decision-maker has a dilemma in this law. Or Slovenian language, it's my mother tongue; or health, the life of a neglected child. I'll make up my mind, as always. I'm putting a child's life at the forefront because life is priceless to me, holy. But I have a question for the Ministry of Health because we are now talking – Slovenian doctors, why not Slovenian doctors and so on. The World Slovenian Congress organized the 10th Conference of Slovenian Doctors from the World and Slovenia this May. Look at the program, from all over the world come Slovenian doctors, we don't just have Gregorič and so on, such bitters are quite something, thank God. I wonder if the Ministry of Health may have contacted them through the World Slovenian Congress, because there is no problem with Slovenian. I may be simplifying, but this question came to me when I remembered the organization of this traditional convention. As it is said, by conscience I will vote for this law, because I do not wish it, God forbid anything should happen so that any poor child may have a conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u83	Dear Members and Members, I ask you if anyone else wants to discuss this. I see there's still a wish. I also remind you that some of the parliamentary groups have already spent all their time. I also warn you that there will be a third article under Article 1, which should also be saved for a while. However, the Ministry of Health has now made a statement, so first I will give the floor to the Secretary of State and then we will re-read the applications for further discussion. Dr. Ana Medved, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. I owe you an explanation. I hope I can be understanding. This whole situation has been going on for a long time, a national problem that has lasted for many years. The fact is that the summit was recently reached, this is a few months ago, with the total cancellation of all cardiologists who were employed at the Pediatric Clinic of Ljubljana. They quit on their own. So there was a very big implementation and organizational problem for us when, in addition to the active search for cardiovascular surgeons – first of all Slovenian surgeons who went abroad, then all others – there was a major problem in obtaining a sufficient number of cardiologists. Turns out it'd be easier to get help from a cardiovascular surgeon. All the centres in Europe that we talked to — many of them, I believe — do not have free capacities in the field of cardiology or paediatric cardiology. And then we were specifically put to the dilemma of what is now. Four pediatric cardiologists quit. Of course we talked to them. They said that they were not interested in working at the National Institute, that they would not leave children without medical care. So there was some way to find out. Believe me, it wasn't right. We didn't feel as good as we feel right now. And then we started looking for doctors elsewhere. What's the problem? We are now talking about a two-phase problem. Suddenly there was a short-term problem where alternatives are only two – whether we continue our own activity in the Republic of Slovenia or start sending children abroad. In foreign countries, believe me, they will not speak Slovenian to them, nor will they have an interpreter. They'll be lost in foreign places. You need to know that this is not a one-time review and come back; these are sequential operations. Now I'm gonna be a little personal. I personally know my family, my workmate, or her sister, her child was born with a complex heart failure. The whole family with this baby has been living in Prague for a good year. The child is very at risk for transport and therefore they rented an apartment in Prague, live in Prague and provide all services, all checks and operations there. Believe me, this is not a condition a patient would want. But I can tell you another medical situation, let's say, myself. The most stressful thing for doctors is to plan a transport, transport an unstable patient that you know you're not able to heal on your own because it's too heavy for your level of knowledge; and you have to transport it somewhere else. Now imagine that we no longer have this activity. Children are born, 100 children are born. Over time, the availability of prenatal diagnostics, so-called fetal echocardiography, would increase. The number of these prenatal heart abnormalities would be higher and a relatively safe child and mother could be brought to a foreign centre where they would then operate immediately after delivery. But we don't have that right now. The baby is born. He needs to be stabilized. We have organized transports with a medical aircraft with a company from Prague, but this plane – I will not talk about the costs at all – has a reaction time of 24 hours. So, in 24 hours, he'll be picking up the baby. Now, you imagine that we no longer have these activities. People who do it well, either walk away or start doing something else, but we have this baby that's gonna be born to us. Believe me, the biggest stress in a doctor's life is when you have an unstable patient. I don't deal with pediatrics, I deal with older people, but I had to transport an 85-year-old lady with a brain bleed, where there was a chance that I would have to intubate her during transport and ventilate her. I'm a surgeon. I don't do that in real life. That was the biggest stress. And here we are somewhere very similar. Let me get on with it. Currently, there are no centres in Europe to demonstrate the available capacity for annual treatment, this is an operation of 100 to 120 people. This center is no longer in Castle. They don't even have pediatric cardiology and cardiosurgery in Trieste. We cooperate with the Rebro Clinic in Zagreb, where their intervention cardiologists help us. I have to say, they're great. The fact is that this law does not open Pandora's box because doctors from the European Union are already in line with Directive 2005/36/EC relatively easily crossing borders. European doctors already work in Slovenian institutions, specifically at the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana, for exactly the same payment as American doctors will receive it. Still positive; what are the goals for the future, we now have this law so that in this interim period, which has suddenly opened up to us, we can provide activity. The primary task of these doctors coming from the United States will not be to carry out activities, but to educate and set up new structures, new organisational processes that will work among themselves, where all four groups that treat these sick children will help and learn from each other. These are cardiologists, cardiosurgeons, children's, paediatric cardiovascular anesthesiologists and Intensiveists who target children who have heart surgery. All four groups will now work together under one roof. We are very promising and very much expected of these foreign experts who will be able to identify our opportunities on the spot and help us set up processes to function. In the meantime, we'll get a home team, we'll have already provided cardiologists, including cardiovascular surgeons, anesthesiologists and intensities. They'll study together and build this center. It is expected that after three to five years they will set up their own independent centre, which will work perfectly, and will work in accordance with international standards. And if it works well, borders will also open up and they will be able to welcome other patients from the Balkans, because, according to our projections in the Balkans, there are not many centres that will work very well. For example, Kosovo and Montenegro are very interested in sending the children back to Ljubljana. In the meantime, surgeons will obtain an adequate number of operations through the continuous participation of a foreign centre in Europe. Just yesterday, we had the head of the hospital in Krakow, which is a reference centre for heart surgery in Poland, and they agreed on long-term cooperation. Their projection is such that their surgeons would come to Slovenia and teach the surgeon who is with us; at the same time our surgeon would, because they actually have a very large number of operations, go to Poland and assist in the operation there and gain a sufficient number of operations. Believe me, we're doing a lot of work in the area of the treatment of baby birth diseases, and I must say, the future seems bright and clear to us. That's it now. Now I have some answers. The answer about the related professions. Who's going to give the opinion? Three doctors who will give a positive opinion on the CV and the relevant documentation of the specialist who will come to the Republic of Slovenia are meant to do so and is also subsequently amended by the Modern Centre Party, namely Article 3. For children’s cardiovascular surgery, they will be given the opinion of the coordinators of child surgery specialisation and one member, child surgery representative, and one physician of adult cardiovascular surgery. For a pediatric cardiologist, this is a pediatrician with a special knowledge of cardiology, who in our Republic is not very special, and will be given the opinion of three paediatric doctors, one of which will be the coordinator of pediatrics. One more answer to that question. The requested doctors will be authorised to perform periodic medical services, which means that they will be able to carry out all the activities, they will be able to carry out checks, emergency checks, emergency operations, work in the department. However, the condition that a specialist can run under this law is an exceptional situation, which is defined by the fact that no emergency medical care is provided in this situation. This is a condition that under this law doctors can apply for work in the Republic of Slovenia. That's everything on my side for now. I hope I've given you a satisfactory answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u85	Secretary of State, thank you very much. Now I invite you to sign up for a new round of debate. Check-in is on. The word is Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u86	Dear colleagues, once again a good day! Just at the beginning of the previous term, when Mrs Medved was not yet a secretary of state and the Ministry of Health had another secretary of state, we talked about this. Not only at the beginning of the previous mandate, but also during the entire mandate, we had several meetings of the Health Committee when we discussed the subject. Even before this mandate, we discussed the issue of child heart surgery in 2012. Why am I talking about this? Because I wonder what is wrong with us, parliamentarians, politicians; what is wrong with society to allow this situation. This problem in child heart surgery has not occurred since these four Slovenian heart surgeons left child heart surgery. No, it's from before. And we didn't act, we didn't do anything. In 2013, we're Dr. Mishaly's foreign surgeons, remember, we've been reading a lot of things – on KPK, too much pay, what he's doing, mistakes, everything. Is that fair? Is it fair for Slovenian people who pay the Slovenian health system to organize charity events for the treatment of children instead of quality treatment, while also providing some of the most extensive financial sums of money for the treatment of children. What is wrong with us not to really make a key incision, allowing the system not to stabilize?Oh, my God! That's what I'm asking myself. I'm already asking myself the whole mandate, and even so, as it turns out, I'm going to be if the next coalition doesn't move forward. Not to step on the ground and adopt only parallel legislation, which means putting out fires, but one violent incision. About that a little bit later. Throughout the discussion, there was a discussion that the profession of child heart surgery in UKC Ljubljana was at fault and that politics had nothing to do with it. Politics is everything today. And politics also decides whether or not to settle a child’s heart surgery situation, let no one close their eyes. And what is the key problem in this story that I see? I don't trust you. The lack of parental trust that we have a certain institution that can provide quality care for our youngest. And I believe that in the past, these doctors have worked very hard, and they have done impossible things, so that today our little ones can have a normal life. But I was involved in one case. I remember this girl two years ago, Neza was the name that still lives today when her parents begged doctors at the Pediatric Clinic to take her abroad. And what's going on? That because parents do not trust in our system when a child is sick or is born with a congenital heart failure, they first say that they want to take him out. This is the 21st century European state. Why? What is wrong with us to allow these doubts? You have to support this marriage, even though it's not the best, because I don't know what will happen if we don't support it. Here's the problem. I don't know what's gonna happen then. I don't want to beat myself in the head and say that because of transportation somewhere else, like in Nuremberg, one little boy lost his life, as the secretary of state said, transport is a problem. But at the same time, this law can have serious consequences because of our Slovenian doctors, who do not have the same conditions as foreign doctors, from third countries, under this law. There's an inequality. And because of this inequality, even due to low wages, the best personnel leave for neighboring countries and then come home over weekends. It's very simple. I don't think the problem is money. It's no problem to give these doctors 4,000 euros a day. That's the least of your problems if they save children's lives. And I ask you, Secretary of State: Do these two American doctors, who are paid as much as the doctors in Prague, perform the same tasks? Do they have the same quality conditions for work as a doctor from Prague? Or do they have the same level of knowledge and work as the four doctors who recently left UKC Ljubljana? This is of interest to me that we do not do any more injustice to Slovenian doctors. What's the next government's job? I think it is the task of the next government to adopt legislation, to reform the health system, which will allow Slovenian doctors, young doctors, the best staff to stay in the country and have enough conditions here; pay and regulated conditions in UKC Ljubljana and other institutions. We're running away from our brains, our best personnel, especially our doctors, our child surgeons, we can't afford it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u87	Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We've heard a lot about fire action today, but I'm not sure we're really like firefighters. You can imagine that as firefighters, we come in front of a burning house and then start fighting, like today, about a very simple marriage. I'm sure this house is on fire. We can talk about firefighters in the direction that this law is passed in a relatively fast way, but I don't know if that's enough to compare ourselves with this honorable profession. I'll remind you of one thing. Maybe the new Members won't remember that. In the past mandate, we had a similar issue, in a completely different field of human resources, in the area of sport, where we were given the initiative to change the citizenship law, so that we could adopt someone as a good basketball player into our team. I assure you, we've agreed on this law in five minutes, maybe I'm overreacting, maybe it was 15 minutes. It wasn't Marlene Ottey; it was Anthony Randolph. And I don't understand that I have such an important issue as child heart surgery – yesterday you read the articles about the fact that at the newly established Institute of Human Resources there is already doctors who do not have the legal conditions to do their job – here we are arguing so much about whether they should work or not. If we do not adopt the law, they will not work; but if we do not have any veto, they will work. That's it. We are all aware that the law is not ideal for other questions to be raised in other fields of medicine, for sure. But not because of this law; because of the bad work in the field of human resources, which I personally consider to be an area of expertise, and I want this area of expertise, I mean the medical room and its leadership. If they don't want to do this job, let them say it. Part of the jurisdiction has already gone to the Ministry in the past, but I think that the Medical Chamber, the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Lawyers should remain autonomous and develop their expertise in accordance with their own rules. There is no place in the National Assembly to staff, to find out where they need a heart surgeon or any other surgeon, and to draw conclusions on this basis. If, in the Chamber of Experts, they propose that we change this law or they change it, that it is necessary to provide more staff to change the law due to higher quality, then I, as a Member, have no problem amending such a law. But I didn't agree that politics takes into its own hands what someone else has to decide, as it is all over the world. And I think that the question of heart surgery is the area that should be taken care of by the profession, especially the chamber and the management of the chamber. But it's a matter of stretching through a series of years, 10, 15, maybe 20. Every doctor or surgeon, a heart surgeon, knows how much it takes to win his profession and to become recognized and competent in this field. I have no reservations about this law, I am aware that in the future there will probably be new and new problems, but today we are solving exactly one specific case, as someone mentioned earlier, one specific tree. If human life depends on it, then I see no reason not to go into this forest today to save just a certain tree. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, as foretold, we will support the law, including all amendments that have also been tabled on the basis of warnings from the Legislative and Legal Service. This is a matter of some nomotechnical corrections. I hope that the work of the Institute will be fully developed as soon as possible so that the first patients can also get what the Institute is dedicated to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u89	Alexander Reberšek has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! For more than five hours, I've been listening to you here, and we're happy to discuss a little less cheerfully about the burning problem, what's wrong, what might be different. And I'm asking you what the problem is right now. What's the problem? No one in this country is responsible for anything — that is the problem! If everyone in the situation had a responsibility, we would not be sitting here today or dealing with these problems. Let us therefore give people in positions of responsibility to be held accountable for their functions and for their actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u91	The word has magic. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u92	Have a nice hello again! We also believe in the Group of the Party of Alenka Bratušek that the directors of the institutions should be given the authority to complete the staff manka. And we are pleased that a legislative solution has now been found so that we can solve the problems that this specific cardiology service for children faces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u93	The word is Peter Joseph Chesnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. As a colleague earlier said - five hours ago. But let's turn the clock back. Do you all remember the saga and the drama at the operating tables? Six was needed, and we ordered two or three dozen because the profession demanded it. The problem is not in the technical side of Slovenian medicine. Remember that and really put it in your head, our doctors are great people. Enthusiasts who work under incredible conditions; look at the Ljubljana IPP, under what conditions they work, after 12 hours a day, because there is no change because there are no people. But back to that mass. We have a law on incest, but we have no law on incestoid politics and mixing with the lobby. So will we also get a marriage on this subject? Let's give it time. But I don't understand why we need to set up a new institute if we already have a cardiology department at the UKC that could have a subsection and they would continue to do so. In addition, I cannot understand why the autumn hospital has been under good management for the third year in black numbers; the rest in red. And here's the answer. If the director, the head of the organization is capable and has a vision, a tool and can motivate people, he will also come into black numbers. I'll tell you from experience if a man with four lines sitting in a left seat on a plane is distasteful and unable to motivate people, 24 or 14 crew members to 747, are uncomfortable and unfriendly to his 360, 420 passengers. And these people will infect everything. Bad voice goes to the ninth village, they say. And here too, for the first time, we have to raise personnel, not politically set them up. That's what they were doing in the previous system. If someone planted the factory, they got another one to work. And there's incredible pressure on people on the UKC, not just on management. The manager says – legislation, rules, this, third, fourth; the ministry says its own; the profession claims its own; but there is no cohesion in this exchanger. There's always something stingy. And like a colleague earlier said, we've been sitting here for five hours and we're talking, and we haven't actually moved from a dead spot. But I'll say this. The party Alenka Bratusek supports this urgent law 100 percent as a solution to be the beginning of the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u95	With this, we have exhausted the list of debaters. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 1? If not, then we will make a transition; I warn you that I will no longer allow such a general discussion in the next article. Since no one wants to discuss Article 1 any more, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendments in 30 minutes in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. I hereby interrupt the first item of the agenda and the second extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 17.45 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 17.03 and resumed at 17.45.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u96	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting devices. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Medical Service Act; the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will make on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled, which is published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1(1). I warn you, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SMC Group to Article 1 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 48. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SMC Group to Article 1 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 48 votes in favour and 6 votes in favour. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SMC Group to Article 3. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour and 6 votes in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly adopted the amendment to Articles 1 and 3 of the amended law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to these articles? No, no, no. That is why we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of vote, first on behalf of the Group of Members. On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Levica has the word of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u97	Thank you for your word, chairman. It is clear from the debate that we want this matter to be resolved, which does not mean, of course, that we can agree that the objective justifies the means. It is also clear from the debate that this outgoing, passing government, the coalition, however, with what it has brought to Parliament, will not solve this matter. Even more, basically a relatively simple problem that has arisen since 2007, which should be solved no later than 2011-2013, and the crisis here is no excuse, in short, to solve one or two narrowly specialised persons who will operate 100, 80-120 young children who have congenital heart problems, you have dragged in, stretched out, and this government in leaving the abuse to destroy even a knowledge of medicine, this is child cardiology. At the same time, even more. Something that the government could resolve in leaving at the level of a sub-law, you have now abused to amend some law where you are actually collapsing, deregulation one of the most crucial professions. This is a problem and it is also an unconstitutional matter, as the Legal and Legal Service has made clear to you. That is why we are and will be in Levica against this because in constitutional, parliamentary democracy the objective must not justify the means. It was very clear from the debate that you would not be able to solve this problem with this stunt you were going through with some law you were writing for one person. At the same time, this is also a slap for everyone who is studying the most challenging studies in us, which is undoubtedly a medical study. When you've been studying him for six years, and you're basically only in the beginning, you've got six more years to finish your specialty, and you've got three or four years to get your scalpel in this particular case. This is extremely unacceptable, this is a slap that the National Assembly should never have afforded. I'm afraid that this coalition of willing will move forward with deregulations, which is once again at odds with the Constitution, and I could point you to the articles here. This is unacceptable and we will therefore vote against it. However, I hope that when this coalition is coalitiond, if I put it this way, we will always be here – obviously in the opposition – a project-oriented opposition, and we will also resolve this issue in such a way that we will not embarrass Slovenian medics and medicine. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u98	The word is given by Zmago Jelinčič noble on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u99	Thank you very much. In this law, the aim is not to regulate the situation in this area, but rather to abuse the law for private interests. This has been evident since the very beginning, and it is evident that the outgoing government wants to arrange some things in order to make a good bed in the future. At the same time it is also a big slap to Slovenian doctors and Slovenian health care in general. What is going on in here is not acceptable, it could not have happened in any democratic country; it only proves that Slovenia has much further to democracy. I am convinced that this is only the beginning, that this is the first of such and similar laws, that this is a trial stone on which will be based the great further decisions of this government in leaving; for this departure will take quite some time, even though today the first outline of the future coalition has been revealed. Given how we negotiate here, given that people are collecting stoppers, that they can drive their children abroad, and not that these operations are being paid by the Ministry of Health, I think we can also expect that this government will issue a law on the collection of these bulkheads in departure. We will not support this law in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u100	Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. Then we move on to an explanation of the voice in our own name. Robert Pavsovich checked in.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. Today we accept supplements to the Medical Services Act, mainly due to child heart surgery. Here is the key word — children’s and hearts. That's what we're all running out of here today, forgetting why we're here. Let us make our own decisions, and tomorrow let us resolve the problems that we are already preconceiving, but first thing in the morning. When we get here, let's sit down and talk about all the dilemmas we have right now. Tomorrow I would also like to look into the eyes of all those parents who have children in the hospital with a calm conscience and a sense that I have done everything for them and their children; so I will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u102	The word is Edward Paulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u103	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support the proposal for a change of law, not because it would be an optimal solution, but because this problem needs to be resolved today and immediately. However, I certainly agree with all those present that the health sector needs to be systematically regulated, namely in the field of specialist education, in the area of management and ownership, as well as in the effective introduction of information technology in the field of health, and thus burden the administrative work of doctors so that they can focus on basic activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-02.ana.u104	We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 12. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda. I also conclude the 2nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. The meeting was closed on 10 July 2018 at 17.56 p.m.
