ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 39th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Iva Dimic, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Nada Brinovšek, Anja Bah Žibert, Jelka Godec, mag. Bojana Muršič, Violeta Tomić from 17.30 p.m., Andrei Potočnik, Vojka Šergan from 15.30 p.m., Janja Slug from 16.30 p.m., Eva Irgl, Marjana Kotnik Popotat from 9.30 p.m. to 16 p.m., Roberto Battelli, Primož Hainz from 16:00 p.m., Franz Breznik, Uroš Prikl from 9.30 p.m., Dr. Milan Brglez from 11.30 p.m., Matjaž Germany from 13:00 p.m. and from 15:00 p.m. to 18 p.m. Franc Trček, Miha Kordiš, Kamal Izidor Shaker from 16:00, Danilo Anton Ranc, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec from 11 a.m. and Janez Janša. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Agriculture Act, a short procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. Tanji Strniša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u2	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The amendment of the law complements areas that have proved to be potentially sensitive or very important for agriculture. Let me mention the area of the food supply chain, the temporary and occasional work in agriculture and the establishment of the beekeeping academy. In the area of the food supply chain, the amendments adopted in 2014 showed that they did not produce all the desired results and that the law should be supplemented in this part. The proposal newly defines the legal assumption of a significant market power of a customer based on the size of the company on the purchasing side and is set at EUR 25 million of annual transport created in the Republic of Slovenia. In addition to that assumption, significant market power may also be determined from the volume of sales, dependence or the level of annual turnover of the party, in particular in relation to another contracting party which, contrary to good business practices, exploits another contracting party. More specifically than in the current legislation, unlawful conduct is defined and the law also introduces the obligation of written contracts; but only for those parties that exceed EUR 15 000 of the value of selling between two entities in one year. Unauthorised conduct shall apply to all articles in the food supply chain, except for the relationship between the cooperative and the members of the cooperative, as this amendment has been adopted by the parent committee at its meeting. However, the obligation of written contracts shall apply to all members of the food supply chain, including the relationship between the cooperative and the members of this cooperative. The amendment also introduces the obligation of a party with significant market power to exercise due control over all entities of the company by controlling and verifying the conduct of the company, employees and external employees. It cannot transfer responsibility for this supervision to another person. The law also changes the heights of fines as the current fines were ineffective and disproportionate. The second area is the area of temporary work and temporary work in agriculture, which is introduced only in the area of plant production, where we have, due to very specific natural conditions and the nature of the work that we do not encounter elsewhere, where we need a more flexible form of work that will allow the employer – the employer – to employ more operators for a shorter period of time. To this end, the proposal for a law legitimizes the specific form of a civil law contract, the so-called temporary or occasional agricultural work contracts. The introduction of this form of agricultural work reduces work in black, enables unemployed people to carry out their work actively for at least a short period of time and reduces economic dependence on the receipt of monetary compensation. It shall be noted that this new form of work protects the operator. As of now, all seasonal works or large majority according to the Economic Chamber are carried out on a commercial basis. This form shall be subject to all provisions of the legislation governing safety and health at work. The lowest hourly item is also specified. The contracting authority may use these new forms for a maximum of 120 days in the calendar year, while the contractor is limited to 90 days in the calendar year. The law also regulates the obligation to pay social security contributions, pension, disability and health insurance, and the amendment adopted on the parental committee, the exemption to pay a specific tax on certain benefits of 25%. One last area I'd like to highlight. By declaring the world bee day, Slovenia has also assumed responsibility to realize this idea of world bee day in practice. This has made the knowledge and dissemination of beekeeping national. The law therefore establishes the Slovenian Beekeeping Academy, which will help us to improve our knowledge and, above all, to spread this particularly valuable beekeeping knowledge to international space. This will also help Slovenia to solve global problems, eradicate poverty and hunger in developing countries. Dear Members, the law brings important news and important decisions for the agricultural sector, so I hope and ask you to support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Tomaž Lisc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u4	Good morning, everyone! Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a team, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the law at its 29th regular meeting on 6 March 2018. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which made specific comments on the article of the bill. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the State Council, which supports the proposal for a law. The Committee also received comments from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The proposed law was tabled by the Left Group on Article 5 within the time limit of the amendment. Members of the committee received the proposals of the coalition parliamentary groups for amendments to the Committee, the amendment of Ambassador Vojka Shergan's proposal for amendments to the Committee, the proposal of Ambassador Franco Laj for amendments to the Committee, proposals for amendments to the Committee of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group and proposals for amendments to the Committee of the New Slovenia Group of Members of the Christian Democrats. In an additional explanation for the written opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service made key comments. With regard to the proposed regulation of unlawful conduct, she raised the issue of the relationship to the regulation of the prohibition of the abuse of a dominant position in accordance with the Prevention of Competition Act. The Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed out ambiguity as to the definition of unlawful conduct. As regards the area of temporary and temporary work in agriculture, the Legislative and Legal Service has also commented that this area belongs to a sensitive area of work with elements of labour relations, and therefore the Legislative and Legal Service has raised in particular the question of the appropriateness of regulating this content within the field of agriculture and not within the area of systemic regulation. With regard to the proposed regulation relating to the Slovenian Beekeeping Academy as an internal organisational unit of the Agricultural Institute of Slovenia, the Legal and Legislative Service has pointed out that it is not a content that represents legal matter and is also inconsistent with the legal system. The Legislative and Legal Service considers that the regulation which defines an internal organisational unit at legal level is contrary to the hierarchy of legal acts. The representative of the Commission of the Council of State presented the opinion of the Council of State, which, at the time of its consideration of the draft law, focused on the introduction of the possibility of temporary or temporary work in agriculture. Although the Council of State supports the introduction of such a form of work, it believes that it would be more appropriate for them to be regulated within the framework of labour law and not within the framework of the legislation governing agriculture. He also stressed that the Council of State did not agree in the debate with the position of the Association of Slovenia, which proposed that paragraphs 61.f and 61.h of the draft law should not apply to cooperatives when it comes to the operation of a cooperative with a farmer. The Director of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia pointed out that the Chamber does not want the proposed provisions of the amendment of the Law on Unauthorised Conduct among the stakeholders in the food supply chain to lead buyers to the creation of some new business models. With regard to the provisions governing seasonal work in agriculture, however, he expressed the conviction that they adequately address this specificity in agriculture and that there remains an anomaly regarding taxation of this work. The representative of the Ministry of Finance reiterated the Government's opinion on the proposal of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber to amend Article 5 of the bill that regulating tax content in non-tax laws was not appropriate. The Ombudsman in the food supply chain presented a number of examples of unfair practices that the Agency for the Protection of Competition also detects; and this throughout the food supply chain. The representative of the Public Agency for the Protection of Competition stressed that the proposal supports the law, as it represents a minimum that is necessary for the law to be implemented more effectively. The representative of the Association of Slovenia presented the position of the cooperative where it is estimated that paragraphs 61.f and 61.h of the draft law should not apply to the relationship between the cooperative and its members. The representative of the Chamber of Commerce said that the Chamber, as a participant in the food chain, had participated in the drafting of the amendment of the law, but, apart from one, no other comment was taken into account. In the opinion of the Chamber, the proposed amendments to the law are contrary to legislative initiatives at European Union level. In the debate, Mr Levice presented an amendment to delete Article 5 which, according to the motioners, would constitute a new form of fine work introduced under the pretext of preventing work in black. The Committee shall, on the basis of written proposals for amendments to its amendments, which form part of the report. The Committee also identified itself until the amendment tabled by the left-wing group to Article 5 was tabled and has not been adopted. The Committee defined itself to propose amendments to the Committee and did not adopt the proposal of the New Slovenia Group of Members of the Christian Democrats to Article 4, Article 13, of the SDS Group of Members of Parliament to Article 7, members of the Shergan Army as an amendment to Article 4; it did not, however, define itself to proposals that have become irrelevant. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, chairman. I salute the Secretary of State with a team, colleagues and colleagues! After 25 years of destruction of Slovenian agriculture and our food supply – only within the mandate of this government has the number of agricultural holdings been reduced by at least 2 000 750 agricultural holdings – and now the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Labour, that is to say, the social-democratic ministers, has drafted a bill to blame for the state of Slovenian agriculture in the form of seasonal workers and under the pretext of the fight against work in the black are taking over their basic labour rights. The message of Minister Židan and Minister Kopač Mrak is clear: the rights of seasonal workers, their salaries, permits, paid hospital, regress and everything else that belongs to them are one rotten thing to be removed; and we will also do so by this law. The law under consideration introduces temporary or occasional work in agriculture in the fields of fruit, winemaking, agriculture and agriculture. This form constitutes an exception to the prohibition of the Labour Relations Act, which provides that work may not be carried out under civil law contracts, except in cases provided for by law, that is the Labour Relations Act. In other words, the law introduces the possibility of carrying out work on the basis of a civil contract, although there are all but all elements of the working relationship. It is therefore a grave and unacceptable breach in the Labour Relations Act, which is adopted after a reduced procedure, past social dialogue with workers' representatives. Inadequate interference with the Labour Relations Act is also noted by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Temporary or occasional work in agriculture will be able to take place for up to 120 days a year. Taking into account the number of working days this year, this is almost half of all working days. Thus, the employer will have almost half the time available to the workforce, which will be fully flexible and underpaid. The minimum hourly rate for temporary and occasional work will be 4.79 euros gross. At 165 working hours a month, it won't even be worth the minimum wage. It should also be borne in mind that the worker or worker will be able to carry out work for a maximum of 90 days in the calendar year, which means that he will be able to earn his own survival for only a third of a year. With the right-wing amendment proposed by Franz Laj on the Committee, this new form of nickname has made employers even more attractive in the form of tax breaks. In addition to saving Slovenian agriculture and self-sustainment, cutting labour rights is also a pretext to introduce a new form of penmanship. That's bullshit. Work in black is not reduced by introducing new forms of penitentiary work; work in black is reduced by an inspection for work, an inspection which is unfortunately under human resources and therefore cannot carry out its tasks which should be carried out; for which they bear the direct responsibility of the Minister of Labour and that government. The law introduces a new form of work that will allow the extreme exploitation of labour. Instead of monitoring and enforcing minimum standards, the State legalises the extremely reprehensible and underpaid position of workers and workers in agriculture. In addition, the law establishes, in an entirely inappropriate and constitutionally controversial way, the beekeeping academy of Slovenia, which is only and only a self-promotion of Minister Jew before the upcoming elections. Finally, the law complements the provisions relating to the food chain with a view to preventing fraud within it, which would, in principle, be supported in Levica; but because of all the above, we will be forced to vote against the proposal of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Laj will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u8	Dear President, Secretary of State with a team, dear Members and Members of Parliament, we all have a very nice greeting! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we support the amendment of the Agricultural Law because we estimate that it brings more good than bad, as we have just heard. In this way, we believe that the whole agricultural sector is being regulated in some way and order is being created and, on the other hand, greater competitiveness is being achieved. Allow me to raise some useful legal solutions. The problem of solving unfair business practices throughout the food chain shows that it is a very hard nut. Let us hope that the proposed legal solutions will contribute to reducing these abuses in the food chain, limiting them and, in some way, protecting the weakest article in the world, these are agricultural economies. However, we must not imagine that unfair business practices would not occur in the future. Unfair business practices have taken place, are happening and will continue to take place because unfortunately, throughout the sector and in the market, they dictate the whole processes and relations of the most powerful, which are extremely strongly present in the market, and in this way they can also increase their market share. As another important area that I want to highlight, it is possible to apply temporary and occasional work in agriculture. It means some sort of seasonal work. Unfortunately, these kinds of activities are increasingly needed, as negative climate change makes it increasingly difficult to plan agricultural activities. This is why the damage caused by the premature completion of various agricultural activities is being reduced in this way as well. Unfortunately, this will not be avoided in the future, but even the needs increase. Just because the agricultural economy would not be harmed with regard to the taxation of these works, I also proposed the amendment adopted by the Committee to ensure that these temporary and temporary works are not taxed on seasonal work with a 25 % specific remuneration tax. Perhaps I would also point out the important issue that will be introduced by this law, namely the implementation of traineeships in public services, public service. This is of paramount importance to the transfer of knowledge. Only in this way and with these receptions will we be able to increase the competitiveness of the agricultural economy and also make a significant contribution to increasing self-sustainment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Simon Zajc will present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u10	Your Honor! The amendment of the law complements the area of food supply, temporary or occasional work and education in the field of beekeeping. Complementing content concerns the food supply chain, with a view to improving food supply chain relations, where unfair practices arise from unequal bargaining power among stakeholders. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we have fully supported the objectives and purposes of the law, i.e. the protection of the weaker in this chain. The dilemmas that we highlighted yesterday with the proposed solutions, since this law introduces novelties that are not yet harmonised at European Union level, we have repeatedly debated because we did not want this law to cause some kind of trade war, aggravate the relationship between the stakeholders in the chain and make the situation of the Slovenian farmer and the domestic eaters worse. The discussion focused mainly on the provisions of the new 61.f Article and the reasons for its introduction and implementation. The discussion also focused on all cases of listed misconduct and on the competence of the AVK to identify these irregularities. We also wanted to be more clear about the solutions proposed and to be alerted about the interference with company regulations and related corporate governance. In the parliamentary group, we hope that the solutions adopted in the home work body will address most of the dilemmas mentioned. In this regard, we would like to point out that we have also discussed how to legally qualify, what is the concept of significant market power and what is the subject of a bond relationship, where it is, on the one hand, as a farmer and on the other, a cooperative of the same farmer; or a farmer cooperating with the cooperative but not a member of the cooperative. The cooperative may provide members with advantages that members could not achieve or would achieve on their own on the market to a lesser extent. Through the cooperation of members, the cooperative can also improve the negotiating position of members on the market and enable them to become more competitive. Members of the cooperative are not only capital investors, but in the first place users of its services in the broadest sense of the word, so the cooperative cannot have significant market power over its members. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we welcome the decision of the parent working body, which supported the amendment of our member of the Military Shergan, by which we achieved, on the basis of the above arguments, that the provisions of article 61.f are not complied with in accordance with the Cooperative Relations Act and the members of this cooperative. Complementing the law also introduces the possibility of temporary or temporary work in agriculture carried out during a certain period of time. With a new form of work, we would like to reduce work to black in agriculture and allow the unemployed to work for at least a short period of time. Farmers will be allowed to hire additional labour, with such workers they will conclude a special contract on temporary or occasional work to be subject to civil law. While we support the latest solutions in the Modern Centre Party Group, we are also aware of the fact that we are introducing temporary or occasional work in agriculture as an exception to the basic rule of the Labour Relations Act, thereby reducing transparency in the labour market. We are also aware that occasional or temporary workers will not have all rights from the ZDR-1, but will be provided with pension and disability insurance and will be provided with a minimum payment. Nevertheless, we expect that the competent ministry of work, given that it has not been able to regulate this area in its legislation, will monitor its effects after the establishment of this institution, particularly in the light of the long-term consequences on the situation of these workers. Given the support of the bee world day initiative, interest in Slovenian knowledge in beekeeping has also increased, so the competent referee proposed the establishment of the Slovenian beekeeper Academy by law as a special organisational unit of the Agricultural Institute of Slovenia. Nevertheless, we would like to point out that the proposed solutions also raise legal concerns raised by the Legislative and Legal Service because they are content that should not represent legal matter because the law interferes with the autonomy of public entities. In addition, the proposed solutions hinder the areas or content and competences of research, development and education, although these are non-formal education. However, the links between a public-law entity and legal persons or a person of private law were also controversial. The bill will be supported mainly by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, as the majority of the support has also been given to the working body. Due to the mentioned dilemma and the dispute over some proposed solutions regarding the beekeeping academy, part of the Party's Group of the Modern Centre of Law does not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u11	Mr Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Important subject matter, important solutions, but reduced procedure. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we once again point out that for material as important as the Agriculture Act and the important solutions that this novelty brings, there is no way that the reduced treatment process is appropriate. The law touches three areas. First of all, the area of illicit practices that discuss the new tasks of the Ombudsman in this area and talk about the relationship between farmers, cooperatives and traders. According to the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, not all farmers are great and not all traders are bad. There's always the truth in there somewhere. What helps us to protect a small farmer if, for example, this farmer has to take his product, such as cabbage, instead of a large commercial company, because this ugly big trader decides to import the cabbage from another country?Oh, my God! We still have problems in relation to Articles 3 and 4 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group with regard to the literacy of contracts, but this has also been pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service, which has found “uncertainties regarding the definition of unlawful conduct”. It is necessary to redefine illicit practices in this area, but in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and on the basis of experience, these solutions are incomplete and will have bad solutions in place of good intentions on the ground. As far as temporary and occasional work and the area governed by this law are concerned, I must say that this was our dilemma, whether we support or not. Just because of the amendment adopted at the meeting of the Committee, which facilitates temporary and occasional work in agriculture, we decided not to oppose this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. I come from Posavje alone and know how important it is for our growers in the summer and autumn days to get fast and quality work on their orchards. The third issue brought to the attention of the Legislative and Legal Service and proposed amendments on the working body in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is the introduction of the beekeeping academy into the law. Allow me to read the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service: “It follows from this that the field of regulation of the Agricultural Institute of Slovenia is subject to sub-legislative general acts in accordance with the system of law, so the regulation defining its internal organisational unit at legal level is contrary to the hierarchy of legal acts as one of the fundamental elements of constitutionality and legality. In particular, as an issue, we point out the proposed solution, which makes provision for the internal organisation of the public institution to carry out its activities at the premises of the Beekeeping Union of Slovenia, which is a legal person of private law. We note that the establishment of premises where the internal organisation unit of a public institution carries out its activities is not a legal matter, but it is even more controversial that it is an unacceptable intervention in property rights under Article 33 of the Constitution.” In short, this law has certain good extensions. Once again, based on the subject of illicit practices – good intentions but legally controversial solutions. With regard to good intentions regarding temporary and temporary work in agriculture – good solutions, but also here the Legislative and Legal Service has commented that in this regard it has highlighted in particular the question of "the appropriateness of regulating this content within the field of agriculture and not within the area of systemic regulation". I have read what the Law-Legal Service thinks, with all due respect for beekeepers, with all due respect to the fact that we want to be the most famous country in the world after beekeeping, that matter is real, even in this field, so the establishment of the beekeeping academy does not belong to law. To respect the legal hierarchy, this work should not be in this law. The law interferes with three important areas, with two areas we agree: illegal practices, yes, but there will probably be many problems in practice; temporary and occasional work, yes, but it is legally controversial; and thirdly, the establishment of the beekeeping academy, yes, but very legally controversial. In short, the good intentions of the law, the bad solutions found in the text of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u14	Dear Vice-President, Government representatives, distinguished colleague and colleague! The problem of unfair business practices in the Slovenian food market is still very present despite several attempts by the Ministry to finally stop these practices. This is pointed out by many stakeholders in the food supply chain, and this time a novelty of the Agriculture Act is intended, among other things, to resolve certain issues in the food supply chain. It is mainly those solutions that the Code of Good Business Practices between the stakeholders in the chain could not solve. Thus, in the amendment, unlawful conduct is defined as a general prohibition, supplemented by specific prohibited practices. In order to facilitate the work of the Competition Protection Agency, the proposal newly defines the legal presumption of significant market power resulting from the size of the company on the purchasing side. The company must thus achieve more than EUR 25 million of annual transport created in the Republic of Slovenia in order to be considered to have significant market power. The proportion of the company's annual turnover is also linked to the new amount of the fine for the offences that the agency already mentioned may impose within the range. The proposal also redefines the obligation of written contracts, when it comes to transactions, worth more than €15 000. The novelty also offers the possibility of temporary or temporary work in agriculture, allowing farmers to obtain the necessary assistance within a specified period of time in relation to the industry’s production process. For example, when additional fruit pickers are needed, they will be able to work for a certain period but not more than 90 days per worker per year. At this point, I would like to draw attention to the conflict of two different opinions in terms of forms of work. On the one hand, we have been concerned about the introduction of a form of penitentiary work, which, on the other hand, we also oppose in our parliamentary group; on the other hand, we have increased labour needs in a specific agricultural season when farmers are faced with not receiving the necessary assistance. Since we have adopted a supplement on the Committee in spite of the opposition of the Ministry of Finance that income on the basis of temporary and temporary work in agriculture is equivalent to, for example, the student work or the copyright contract or the income received for harvesting work in the agricultural sector, we have decided to support such a form of work in the Desus Group. In the Desus Group, we estimate that the proposal for a law brings another important solution, namely, that within the Agricultural Institute, as a special institution, the Slovenian Beekeeping Academy, which will also take care of informal education in the international field. Slovenian knowledge in this area is highly appreciated abroad, which is also evidenced by the fact that, at the initiative of Slovenia, May 20th was declared the world bee day, which will be marked for the first time this year. Since we believe that the bill brings good solutions, Members and Members of the Desus Group will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u16	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture! Self-sustainment of food is of strategic importance for the country, so in Novi Slovenija we advocate better farming opportunities and integrated rural development. We have neglected this important task in Slovenia and are becoming increasingly dependent on the purchase of food in other countries. In the event of bad years, natural disasters, wars or epidemics, we will be more vulnerable to problems, since in such cases each country will first take care of its inhabitants; therefore we support the increase in domestic food production and thus improve self-sustainment. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the protection of the farmer as a weaker customer in the food supply chain, but we cannot pass the fact that we have 23 illegal practices in the bill. Is the bill really going to achieve its purpose?Oh, my God! The National Council and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia have pointed out that illicit behaviour is not in line with the characteristics of unfair business practices, as defined in the European Commission Green Paper on Unfair Trade Practices in Food and Non-Friendly Businesses in Europe. It also goes beyond the definition of illicit practices as set out in the Vertical Relations document in the food supply chain, the principles of good practice developed within the framework of the Food Chain Initiative at European Union level. In addition, the definitions of individual illegal conduct are very loose and vague and allow for different interpretations, contrary to the constitutional principle of the rule of law and the provision of legal certainty and the principles of legality in criminal law. This represents a great legal uncertainty for all stakeholders in the chain; especially for farmers, small and medium-sized enterprises in the food supply chain. In the New Slovenia Group we also draw attention to the obligation of written contracts and the ingredients cited in the proposal. Otherwise, the following Article states that the contract is not required in writing if the value of the contract between the two entities does not exceed EUR 15 000 per calendar year. If we put ourselves on the side of weaker customers in the food supply chain, that is, farmers, we can see that smaller farmers do not have time, knowledge and personnel to prepare a written contract and adapt to such arrangements. We therefore reiterate that the weakest food supply in the food chain will be increasingly excluded from the market due to such requirements in practice, as they will not be able to adapt sufficiently within the required time period to new legal requirements. The bill proposes the possibility of temporary and temporary work in agriculture, allowing plant growers to work with the help of temporary and temporary workers for a specified period of time according to needs. The law also provides for restrictions, namely that such work should not be carried out for more than 120 days a year, irrespective of the number of persons employed in the employer; nor should a worker in such a form work for more than 90 days a year. Christian Democrats welcome this form of work, but we believe that it would be more appropriate to regulate this matter in the law governing this area. Slovenian specialities are fragmented processing areas processed by small farmers; food in the food supply chain is therefore much better because it is grown in small quantities. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Agriculture Act has taken the government step forward in protecting small farmers, i.e. small food producers, so in the New Slovenia Group we will not oppose the bill, although we believe it is a bureaucratic law and confusion. The only good thing is the occasional and temporary work we are dealing with here, and everything else is likely to have to be more defined by the future government, as much confusion will appear in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenian agricultural policy is, at least according to some key statistics, one of the most successful within the European Union. Despite the severe crisis caused by sanctions against one of the main buyers, the Russian Federation, as well as the consequences of the captures that have affected not only our country but the wider European Union, we note a 6% increase in the value of purchases of all agricultural products, as well as a 4.2% increase in the purchase of dairy products, not to mention an additional increase in the total area of agricultural land, as well as, for example, a substantial increase in the rate of self-sustainment over the last 10 years. Nevertheless, it must be borne in mind that, in the field and in the agricultural sector, everything is not yet in place and that today's agricultural law is also an opportunity to take a step further. One of them is the provision of a higher level of equality or the elimination of inequalities within the food supply chain, where it has often occurred that large traders or large owners have placed largely small farmers at the expense of capital, organisational and technical power. It has also proved necessary to strengthen the protection of the weakest within the agricultural sector by redefining the assumption of market power and a new set of illegal practices. In case I say only what was also on the committee, it has often been that the actions that last for buyers in large shopping centres, when suppliers also have to offer a lower price for their agricultural products, took 7 days for buyers and 14 days for suppliers, because they were in a significantly weaker position against a stronger trading chain. All of these are cases we do not need in our country and we need to eradicate them. It is therefore important that the law be amended accordingly, even though it can be concluded that there have also been comments from the Legal and Legislative Services at this point. Another extremely important category of this law is that it also refers to the strategic objectives of the Republic of Slovenia at the global level, namely the fight against global inequality and poverty and the internationalisation of Slovenian knowledge. As you know, Slovenia has reached the entry into force of an international bee day, which, of course, is not just a day to discuss bees, but mainly a day to address global inequality, which, due to limited access to food resources and because of the lack of respect for our environment, is causing serious inequalities, poverty and an important part of the world to be in severe trouble. Slovenia has put its efforts on the international day of the bee in the first place to combat these global inequalities, and it is important that, through the establishment of the beekeeping academy, we also make it possible to internationalise Slovenian knowledge and Slovenian foreign policy to enable the Millennium Goals set by the United Nations to be realized not only at the declaration level, but through concrete activities, through assistance in the development of knowledge; because we do not want to deliver food, but we want to learn to produce food so that they will not be less dependent on development aid, but will themselves be drivers and creators of development. It follows from this that we will support the draft law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We turn to the debate on the Article and Amendment tabled on 21 March 2018. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Please sign up. The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. We have proposed in Levica the deletion of Article 5 which introduces a new form of part-time work. The solution for our agriculture and low self-sustainment is not that we make even greater use of agricultural workers. My grandmother Maria was a pain in the ass, but that was almost 100 years ago. This is what we said at home that she was going to the tent, and in the evening she brought some flour for payment so that she could cook the broth for the six hungry children. That's not what we want. Work as such in agriculture is seasonal, not permanent, but has all forms of working relationship. Why are we against this? The Legislative and Legal Service has also made it clear that temporary or occasional work is part of a sensitive area of work with elements of work relations and therefore raises the question of the appropriateness of regulating this content in the agricultural field; and not in the field of system-wide legislation relating to labour relations, labour performance or labour market regulation. The Act is a grave breach in the Labour Relations Act, we adopt it in a reduced procedure, the law was not in line with the workers' representatives. Of course, you spoke to the Farmers' Union, but they act as employers and represent interest, and no one represents the interests of the workers. It is extremely inappropriate to introduce a new form of penitential work in this way, past social dialogue with stakeholders. The fact is that self-sustainment is poor, but we will not solve it by making even more use of employees, but otherwise by what positive discrimination. We talked about the problems of our farmer, how to get involved in large food chains of large merchants. Our farmer here is not competitive. But if we like to compare ourselves with Austria, Austria has positive discrimination and will not import strawberries because it subsidizes its farmer to produce these strawberries. Here are the solutions that are closer to social justice and not to greater exploitation of people. Nearly 3,000 farms have abandoned their activities only during this government. Climate change is getting worse and we are not addressing it in the right way. We are not dealing with the problems of farmers in the right way, and we now have an even greater overreach in the field of agriculture. If I touch the beekeeping academy and why do I think it's the self-promotion of Minister Jew before the elections? The Academy marks the highest scientific and artistic institution, a school of higher or highest degree, or a cultural event. By no means can it designate an organisational unit within the Agricultural Institute. This beekeeping academy should be established by amending the Act establishing the Agricultural Institute and, in our opinion, the regulation defining its internal organisational unit at legal level is contrary to the hierarchy of legal acts as one of the fundamental elements of constitutionality and legality. The predecessors mentioned that it is in complete disharmony with Article 153 of the Constitution. We all agree that bees must be protected and bees are Slovenian pride; but not in this way and not in such a legal argument. We will certainly support this law in Levica if Article 5 is deleted, which introduces even greater exploitation of workers and chastity in agriculture; otherwise we will be forced to oppose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! I'm also reading this law as some combination of pre-choice pirates and hand-to-hand solutions. I'll start at the pier. Violeta has already made it clear that the beekeeping academy, as a pianist project of the current agricultural minister, is not a matter to be established by law, but rather a unit within the Agricultural Institute, which should be established by amending the constitutional act of the Agricultural Institute. So this is an internal organizational matter of this institution; not something that we would regulate by law. The fact that you moved this thing to the legal level is nothing more than trying to get recognition through this – Here, the minister has done something for our bees, he has set up a beekeeping academy; although it is not an academy in the right sense, but only more formally for an organizational unit in there; and he has thus addressed voters who are aware that bees are particularly at risk due to herbicides, climate change. If you were really interested in bees, you might have voted differently than you voted on the last herbicide that the European Union has listened to to ban – glyphosate. And we know how our minister voted back then. He voted against the ban on glyphosate. And that's just one thing we've heard. I don't know how many other similar stories there have been in this mandate in the European Union, but herbicides are the ones that kill bees. And if it were bees, then we'd be making such moves for them, not with some empty pre-election pyar, like the fact that the law establishes something that's not a legal thing at all. It's the right thing to do. Second. Why do I say that this law, on the other hand, is a set of handball solutions? We all know that Slovenian farms are on average very small, that their own resources are very limited, and therefore it is difficult to employ people. But the decision of the ministry led by the Social Democrat, even the President of the Social Democrats, is that this problem will solve in the simplest or most neo-liberal way that is – through overwork in agriculture. Without, for example, trying to amend the Public Procurement Act in such a way that farmers who are now under severe price pressure from large traders can better sell their food to, say, local schools or local public institutions. No, we still have a price mechanism in the Public Procurement Act, with the exception of a very small share. They also push the prices of agricultural products down and thus keep farmers' capacity to pay at a low level. You kept it, but you didn't; the answer will be work overwork. Another slightly more complex approach would be to try to connect small farms and to employ workers together if they do not have enough resources. And I haven't seen any efforts this way. Of course, you have gone to the fastest and most neoliberal solution, which is that if your own resources on the farm are too small to hire workers, we will make these workers so attractive that people will be able to do some of the work on farms for life. Now that's the solution that's in marriage. We have tabled in Article 5 of the amendment to delete at least this section on leniency; we leave the beekeeping academy to you, even though it is our own pyar. We have said what we think about such approaches, but in the coming mandates it will be essential to take a significantly different approach. If you're talking about bees, biodiversity, you'll have to ask yourself what's wrong with herbicides. If you are looking at the future of Slovenian farms, you will have to ask how to increase orders where they can be, and reduce the pressure on the price of Slovenian products, especially in local schools, the public sector, public institutions. It will be necessary to ask what to do to increase the supply of fruit and vegetables. In vegetables, self-sustainment is currently only 40%. And so farms can get more capital, so that in a normal way, as also provided for by the Labour Relations Act, they can start hiring people. What you're doing right now is some cheap silence that won't be good for the workers, because it puts them in a penal position, not for the farmers, because it doesn't practically solve any of their problems. I hope that, during the vote, we will gather our support for our amendment, so that at least this chaotic neoliberal part, which is a dead end, is removed from the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags asked for the floor. Tanya Strnisha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me to respond to all the dilemmas that have been raised; some already in the presentation of the positions of the Group Members, some at the time of the amendment. First of all, I would like to make it very clear that we have never, but we have never claimed that occasional work in agriculture. When it comes to harvesting crops, when it comes to some green work in the spring or summer, they do not have the nature of the work that is normally regulated by the working relationship. This is a job that is done according to the employer's instructions, and it is a work that takes place during the working time set by the employer. The farmer’s company or farmer shall tell the owner what needs to be done and when to be done. That's unquestionably true. What situation we have in practice, I will tell you on concrete data. This information, and all the other reasons why we decided to do this work, are precisely explained in the explanations for the law, but since today is the time for this law to be supported, I think I should say them again here before the entire assembly. According to the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce for 2015, the state of organisation of work in the agricultural sectors was as follows. Once again, we are talking only about plant production, this form of work will not apply to agriculture as a whole, but to precisely defined agricultural production where this occurs – fruiting, wine growing, agriculture, agriculture. This does not apply to agriculture because the work is mechanized there. This does not apply to livestock farming, although we also have tips, but work is more predictable there. In short, the situation in these sectors was as follows in 2015. Out of the total number of employees, regular employees and seasonal workers, the total number of contracts was 187. Of these, 274 were fixed-term contracts and 40 fixed-term contracts, according to the category in the working relationship. Then 873 business contracts. The contract is a civil law contract. A business contract is the same payment of work, even for a business contract it is necessary to pay social contributions, but there is no minimum wage in a business contract of certain other rights, no minimum wage. By the way, I do not agree with this and I must deny what was said in the introductory explanation by the Left and Ambassador Violet Tomić that this is not a minimum work. This item, which is laid down in the law and also has to be revalued once a year, is calculated from what is defined by law as a minimum wage. I want workers to be paid better for this job, I want to; but maybe there is something to know about the reality of agriculture. I don't know if a farmer's job is better paid for than a season worker's job. But let me also say from my experience. I am an educated agronomist, a fruit farmer, and my first job was a technologist at an agricultural company in the old country, in socialism, which has put a lot of emphasis on workers' rights, probably more than today. And there we were also to rob hops and fruit crops, we had these two, we had workers who came from Kosovo at the time, they didn't have a working relationship, they were paid for their work. And I don't really know one case, but I really don't know one case of any country in order to make this work a work relationship. Why? I had to plan the robbery as a technologist. And what did that mean? Two months ago, you didn't know whether a certain variety of apples would begin to peel on September 5th, late August 15th or September 15th, because that depends on what the temperature, what the summer is, how much rain there is. And even when it starts, sometimes it happens that because of warm weather it all shines at the same time, and then you have three weeks to pick apples. If there is rain, then you have an even shorter time; sometimes the work is somewhat normalized. You can't know in advance how many people you're gonna need in a day. That's the problem with seasonal work. And how can you make a work relationship?Oh, my God! Besides, work is hard. It happened to us, not with this season coming from Kosovo, because they were coming year after year, they had farms at home, and in the autumn they came to us for extra money and it is happening today; only that the provenance of these workers is probably different. They were the usual part, but we got people from the local environment every year who wanted to help, and that's still the case today. But it's hard work, and a lot of people can't do it, and after two days, it stops. Then what are you gonna do? Three days to post for a work relationship and then hire someone. What happens in three days? Strawberries rot, apples become black and are not stored well in the refrigerator or transported. I apologize for going into such physical details, but I have a feeling that I simply have to explain to Members what kind of work this is and why we are introducing an exception to this work. Just because of these specialties that aren't anywhere else. Yes, it also rains in construction, and some workers or construction workers are now working in the rain off the highway or elsewhere. At least they know what their hands are and when they will work, but we don’t know it yet. When we looked at how we would arrange it, because it pains us that there are now land contracts on the ground and that people may not yet have a minimum wage because no one forces them. How's the field? We've been doing this for years, and it's really not a hand-and-hand solution. For years we have looked at what form we would give to protect these people who work and at the same time not to put our producers in a situation where they have such problems with workers, that this would cause economic damage to them, because they could not adapt to the market, weather and obstacles that such workers are causing. Therefore, together with the Ministry of Labour, where we have been looking for these solutions, we have decided that this derogation from the postulated working relationship is better regulated in the Agricultural Act, because we really do not think that it is a comparable sector. If this were the case in the Labour Relations Act, then there would be a risk of any other sector spreading. I cannot find a sector that is as specific and where reasons for such a derogation as this seasonal work would be given; this is why it is in the Agriculture Act and is not in the Labour Relations Act. More. When we co-ordinated this interdepartmentally, it was the proposal of some ministries to go the other way, to write in the Labour Relations Act that, when it comes to seasonal work in agriculture, not all certain obligations relating to conclusion and also to rights in the labour relationship do not apply because this is such a specificity. What was our position back then? That this would be an even worse intervention in the working relationship, because then the Institute of Labour, which protects the rights of workers and the world, would eat up because they would tell me something about the working relationship that it's not. It's just a civil contract work. This is not a work relationship; when people conclude it, they know that they will not have all the rights. Now you can imagine that I would have a work relationship agreement with such people, and then I wouldn't have certain rights that others have. And it seemed more fair to tell us, and in this way also to point out your criticism, if we are already admitting that the Institute of Labour is too heavy to allow our sector to normally provide these services. And we have acknowledged – yes, a civil contract; but contrary to what is today a commercial contract, we have clearly stated in the law that this form also applies: the prohibition of discrimination, the prohibition of sexual and other harassment, and the same treatment on the basis of sex, because I do not know if in the civil contract anyone will be guaranteed that a woman who steals more heavily will get paid just as much per hour as a man. Similarly, the prohibition of child labour, the provisions concerning working time, breaks, rest, compensation, protection of certain categories of workers with regard to the prohibition of the performance of works and the protection of personal data shall apply. All rules governing safety and health at work shall also apply. In my opinion and belief, these provisions are intended for employers as well, and we are taking a step towards them so that they can establish a relationship with people who come to pick them up or other work that is regulated by law. We also protect these people, unfortunately, seasonal work in agriculture is done by people at the bottom of society. It's hard to get out of my mouth, but I can't tell you anything else. This amendment protects them from having at least a basic right, a basic payment; we do not give them the false hope that this is a work relationship, because we did not want to call it that. I would like to say more about the very coordination that we have been thinking about these solutions. In agriculture we also have values that are also acceptable for seasonal work in agriculture, but only when someone works with a natural person, not in the company. In addition, contributions are still much lower there, and there is nothing less than payments to the securities, and there are even lower contributions. We encourage the solution proposed by this law. But I have two more things to say about coordination. The first is that we and the experts from the Ministry of Labour have sought and jointly prepared these solutions, and the law has been in public debate for a long time, with the previous amendment of the same, and then slightly amended provisions. But the fact is that we are not members of the Economic and Social Council and that this law and these provisions have not been addressed in this forum. And if we ever interfere with labour law again, we will pay much more attention to that. Secondly, we have, of course, coordinated with the farmers' union, but it is true that farmers are employers here. In our consultative bodies, however, he is also a representative of the union of workers in agricultural and food companies. On these traditional councils, we, as a ministry, are committed to social dialogue and coordination with our social partners, and these legislative provisions have been harmonised. If you'll excuse me, there are still a few other things I should mention about the beekeeping academy. I must strongly deny that any other purpose, such as to impart knowledge to third countries, I will also say on a case-by-case basis that this idea has not grown overnight. We were already invited by the world's largest NGO, based in Bangladesh, to be known as BRAC, and has 120 thousand employees. The creation of billions a year — not transport — of activities and its main mission is to promote rural jobs, eliminate poverty, educate women, eliminate women's illiteracy. They work in 12 countries. They asked us to come and teach their farmers how to work with bees. We have a lot of knowledge, knowledge is also in several institutions, in college, at the Agricultural Institute, at the Beekeeping Association, in high schools. We're gonna do this pilot project for Bangladesh, at least I'm counting on us to start it this year. I am in favour of being able to respond to other initiatives. We received the same request from Ethiopia, Bhutan, and elsewhere. We only set up a beekeeping academy to have a team of people who will be able to go to the third world to teach beekeeping. And that we can do this at one level of excellence of beekeeping in Slovenia, we have decided to attach this to the Agricultural Institute. Of course, we could set up a whole new institution as the Government, but here we also went from a rationalisation or rational solution to this solution, to be carried out at the Agricultural Institute, which is also obliged by law and regulation to combine all beekeeping knowledge in one place under its roof. Above all, this is intended to train, educate, train trainers for work in the third world. In this respect, I hope that we will also be successful as a country in the coming years, because we owe it to us. World Bee Day is not only a holiday on May 20th, world bee day is a movement for the protection of bees and a movement to achieve sustainable development goals by 2030, so it has been recognised by all the countries of the world because it is in the background. We, as initiators of this, cannot stand by having a beekeeping holiday on May 20th, but we are obliged to do something. Since we are a small nation with a small budget, with a small number of resources, we can do the most if we teach people beekeeping knowledge. I must make it clear here that we are committed to sustainable farming. I must tell Mr Mesco that Slovenia, in my view, has banned neonicotinoids in Europe because of the bee plague by order of the Minister in 2011. Only two years later, the European Union adopted a ban on the use of neonicotinoids and their prohibition is more limited than ours. As far as glyphosate is concerned, we have announced that after this transitional period or after this period of registration, which has been reconfirmed in the European Union, we have made it clear that we will be against the use of glyphosate. We have made a whole programme of adaptations to agriculture for technologies without glyphosate and also in the government procedure are changes to the action plan, the national plan for the sustainable use of pesticides, which provides for a ban on the use of glyphosate on public surfaces, according to non-agricultural areas where 70 % is applied, with the exception of the transitional period for railways, because they need to obtain an appropriate mechanism at that time to otherwise suppress weeds on railway routes. Our commitment to reducing chemistry in agriculture is not only principled, but also in purely concrete measures already taken. And I think I'd better warn you about that from this place. I must also strongly deny that the purpose of these amendments is to improve the situation in agriculture or to regulate certain areas in agriculture. Yes, but for the whole economic situation of agriculture, we have completely different levers, and I agree that this is not. It is very important to arrange seasonal work for farmers, growers, growers and growers, but we generally have purely other instruments for agriculture. However, with regard to the public procurement of local food, there has been a tremendous amount of work done in the last term. The Public Procurement Act has already been amended for the second time to increase these limits, to which food can be excluded from public procurement and directly ordered, as it has previously been up to 80 000 or up to 20 %; now this limit applies to the set. No matter what the value of a public food contract is in one institution, up to 20% of the food can be ordered directly from the environment if it is divided into several units of up to 80 000. This also allows large systems such as hospitals, large homes, large school centres to make full use of 20% of all purchases directly from the local environment. Furthermore, the law made it clear that food was not only a price criterion, but that the criterion could be a higher quality scheme. In the last two years, we have established the selected quality as the most widely distributed scheme, which can therefore be a preferential criterion when public food is ordered. In addition, lower costs, environmental costs due to shorter transports can be taken into account, so that institutions have tools in the law and also in terms of different support. I apologize to those Members of our Committee because we have dealt with this and climate change in detail several times, but I will say it again today. With the support of the Ministry, a software system for public food procurement has also been developed, an electronic catalogue for all public institutions that can obtain user-friendly local food data with all specifications. Now, together with the Ministry of Education, we are developing an upgrade to this, for software connection with their accounting programmes, so that public food procurement will be even when you go beyond 20% and you must apply the Public Procurement Act as easily as possible and to allow access to local food. Indeed, we have proposed that food should be completely excluded from public procurement, even for these vulnerable groups, for hospitals, for children, for kindergartens and the like, but the European directive does not allow it. We have received a clear response from the Ministry of Public Administration that this is not possible. My answer is in this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Moon has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Since I am limited in time, I will focus only on essential work in agriculture. I myself know what harvesting looks like, I have old parents with a farm, and I have even participated in my childhood in various harvestings of fruit, baskets and so on. But your proposal isn't about picking fruit, as you say, but it's about work that can cover up to 120 days a year. Practically up to half of all working days per year, this occasional work, as you say, can cover, this is the first thing. Secondly, you refer to the specificity of agricultural work, and you have highlighted the harvesting that grapes should be collected in a few days, berries, apples and so on. If that were true, then the matter would be substantially more limited, not 120. But since it's 120, I'm going to give a few more examples of other industries that could equally refer to each other. Guests can also say – we don't have any visitors all week, most of our guests, 80% of our guests come on Friday and Saturday evening, so we need a special form of work in the Hostages Act, this is a part-time job in the restaurant so we can hire people there. The same can be said on ski slopes — we depend on natural conditions, snow is only two months a year, so we need a special form of law in our industry. The same can be said in Luka Koper, where they practice it in black, they say – we depend on the transport of ships, on Monday one comes, on Tuesday comes 10, so our work volume increases overnight so that we urgently need a wide network of penitential workers and we need a special form of work. If you would come to the home working committee as an opposition party with such a proposal, I can tell you what would happen to this proposal. You, as the proponents, would tell you what you want, then you would call the Legal and Legislative Service, which would tell you what I told you, that this is inconsistent with system regulation and so on. I would like to say another guest, a member of the National Council and then a member of the coalition, many times a colleague of Škoberna has played this role, raised his hand and said: "I suggest to my mother's labour body that this law is non-systematic, the legal and legal service has stated its own, is not in line with the labour law and is not in line with social dialogue, so it is inappropriate for further consideration. And there'd be a way to end a marriage like this. This is also my opinion that this law is not in line with the system order nor is it ingenuity and sets a precedent for all other sectors, which can in a similar way invent arguments, why they would need a particular form of occasional work. I understand if it's something on the right. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Tanja Strniša, as a proposal for a bill, please choose.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u28	Thank you. If you'll excuse me, there's only one element I've forgotten before, which is important. Just what you've been alerting us to – 120 days a year. On the other hand, we have a limit, 120 days a year, when the employer can carry such a form of work on his farm, on the property. However, the employee’s restriction is 90 days. And that's exactly why, because if you specifically need someone for 120 days, you should actually have a working relationship for the same person, for the same skills, for a repeat job. As a result, the employee’s restriction. But why? It is crucial to point out that 120 days in the year are not concluded, it is a broken job because bad weather comes in between or when there is no need for additional work outside the regular staff. And because it is not a work done and because it cannot be planned in contrast with the cases that you mentioned when it is a guest who knows when they have events for the whole year ahead, or for Luke and similar systems, where they also occasionally have great needs for additional workers; it is true. But because they can plan, they can organize this work differently, while the work here is quite unpredictable and this is why it is more flexible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Bell Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues from the Left, I think you went with this amendment as barefoot into thorns and the Secretary of State told you nicely. And you haven't read the law very well, all of you. I fully agree with the Secretary of State, although I rarely do. Probably on the Committee on Agriculture several times with Violeta as well as with the Secretary of State, but this time I fully agree with the explanation as to the occasional and temporary work. Violeta, you probably have a very good understanding of hemp; fruit, vegetables, and winemaking are very bad. Since the secretary of state comes from practice, I always try to give him the right one. All you want to do is argue, but it doesn't matter what it is. We have also made certain amendments to this law, which have been rejected on the committee, but we will support this law precisely because of what is good for farmers who will understand. What you want to undo with your amendment. That's exactly why we're going to support it, because that's the only way the farmers will feel it. As far as this marriage is concerned, I would say that we have also given an amendment as regards written contracts. That is why I would suggest, colleagues from Levice, that you go to farmers to do something, and perhaps certain officials from the Ministry of Agriculture, because if the secretary of state were to write the whole law, it would probably be different. Why? Contracts over €15 000 of annual contracts with a certain trader. We have proposed that this be deleted or that this be increased to over 90,000; precisely because of strawberries. I know of a case where strawberries in Italy that weren't in the greenhouses were cold and there were no strawberries. But they're not with us. The demand was great in Italy as well as in Italy, and our merchant ordered some strawberry trucks from someone who probably thought he was going to sell them where they didn't exist. But since he got stuck somewhere, he returned them in a few days, crushed, failed, we know how long the strawberries last, which he could sell richly to Italy. It may happen that where a particular trader has a contract for supply, a hailstone comes, collapses the crop and cannot get berries there, for example, and looks elsewhere. And one truck, one truckload of strawberries is, in my opinion, when a good price is worth 15,000 euros because it goes in there for so many and so many thousand kilograms. And if it's in season, let's say when they're allowed, but this larger trading organisation has a contract signing system, that four have to initial as a model contract, and they're accidentally people on vacation. Strawberries are bad goods and you have to do the biggest job in one day, two or three days. And he'll say, "I can't." Unfortunately, the sentence is so high, I can't bring you in unless we can make a contract first. I'm gonna have to take strawberries to the fertilizer plant or throw them away because I don't get paid to get caught and pay for my punishment. In such cases, it seems to me that 15,000 euros is too little. Not only is it an excuse that farmers, when it comes to working night and day in the season, may not have a man to make a contract overnight, even where they are older, may have to wait for the son to come from Ljubljana from college to make a contract. It's purely life-threatening cases where problems will arise. In addition, the amendment was adopted on the committee itself to exempt those within the cooperative. How many are those who aren't in the company? Do you want to push everyone into cooperatives now? Those who are inside the company, they're not. Is that right? I don't think so. It doesn't apply to everyone. There should also be contracts between them within the cooperative. Also, cooperatives can fuck their members up so I don't say any other words. We have our comments here. And we will support the marriage because it also brings good things about temporary and occasional work. It's about time the farmers had that chance. It's also about people who are on the labor market, some tend to be sick, and berries are very much on the ground, and they're a little bit in the cross, and they're going to hospital on the second, third day. And what's that supposed to do? He is looking for another worker to conclude a contract for a certain period of time, as Levica claims that everything must be under the Labour Relations Act. Since the workers are missing, the one who is good for the job has mostly found a job. They told me personally on the job market, if you think you're gonna find a good worker with us, you won't. But there's no other way for farmers. And there's someone here who'd make good use of those farmers. This is also the case when, say, the inspector comes in at eight in the morning and says - line up the workers in the field. And he's got to go get the papers. It takes two, three hours. The farmer himself told me, and then we go to the field at 12 o'clock in the summer because we have two hours to work with the inspector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u32	Each job has its own requirements, and here too I agree with the Secretary of State that on the farm, in agriculture, the conditions of work are different, that much depends on time, on season and so on. And to talk about some holiday work here, it can only be said by those who go to the farm maybe just for some crops or on holidays and have no contact with the real life as it is on the farm. I have pointed out many times that farmers are too burdened by various regulations, by paperwork, while having plenty of other work. And I can't imagine that because of some seasonal work, when the season is over, when he really needs someone, he should have a working relationship with him. Just because we have this labour legislation so tight, fewer people are employed. That's what all employers say, because they just can't afford it when they don't have a job to have so many employees. I have lived my whole life on a farm and I am happy to do so; but I always point out that thank God I am not only dependent on the farm, because I know how hard every euro is there and that there are a lot of small parts that you cannot charge, for which you do not get paid, and at the same time they must be done. Therefore, I reiterate my wish that the rules, the legislation, should be such that farmers do not interfere with their work, to be clear and transparent; but not so complicated that they then whitewash their heads, and when they can do all this, they have a lot of other work at the same time. I find it completely pointless to talk about a pretense in this area. And the other thing is, can they really get people like that at all, because there aren't many people who are willing to do physical work as hard as moving crates; even though it's easy work, it's also physically exhausting. And I remember when I was in elementary school, and I couldn't wait for the holidays to start, so I could go fishing, because it was fish picking season. I am, of course, against the exploitation of children for work, but in this respect, it seems to me that it is no harm to anyone if it is practiced in such works and tasks as I myself have had to do or my children to do today, that they have no problem doing this or that work. Let's make rules of life and get people motivated to work.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Škoberne, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I think it was about two months ago at one of the coordinations or at one of the public presentations, when I suggested that what was proposed was indeed contrary to Newton's laws; and I got back across the table – Mr Škoberne, I guess you know that Slovenian laws apply in Slovenia. And about this order of anecdotes is also the interpretation of colleague Mesca that in the case of planting and these occasional works it is a perfectly comparable situation with ski slopes, because it is snow falling in winter and then it is season. On purpose or by mistake, he left out the fact that most of the good skis – and the trend in tourism is going in this direction – is a key part of the summer season, spring, to focus on complementary products; however, of course, it is significantly harder to convince the apple that it will be born in January. And just as some do not understand that Newton's laws have not been passed in Parliament, where Slovenian laws are in force, nor does anyone understand that unless we want to convince apples, pears and maybe some vine with genetically modified mechanisms to produce even the worst winter conditions, we cannot do that. And that is why this is a completely incomparable and logically incorrect debate. I wouldn't even focus too much on that. I would like to say that this is a very difficult and very effective area. Of course, such an arrangement will also be subject to logical and meaningful criticism. Of course. But we can simply avoid it and call it what Pedenjped says – I am not, maybe there will be no problem. He'll stay. However, we can provide protection for those who do so, allowing them to have their contributions covered, their retirement and so on. But we can pretend that it's not that we don't know about it, and it's going to stay disorderly to the detriment of those who do. Let us repeat this logical conclusion: if amendments to delete the regime of this area are adopted and this will be deleted, the matter will remain unregulated to the detriment of those who carry out these works. Do we want to achieve that? Someone presents a solution to how to improve the situation, how to fix it. Because it is not exactly what we would like it to be, it may even be contrary to Newton’s laws, because we may change them here, but it is not; we will oppose this solution. It's legitimate, but everyone's gonna make an impression on why. Because the easiest way to criticize is to say that we only have 40% self-sustainment. Yes, but it was significantly lower at the starting point. This year, she reached this level for the first time. Milk — 130 %. Also in fruit farming, there is extremely low self-sustainment this year. Hold on, it's 90 percent cold. But it can also be in time, weather and something else to blame for the common European agricultural policy. This can also be argued. In order to ensure that the increase in self-sustainment in cereals and vegetables is linked to direct payments implemented and support for this production, it is normally forgotten to add to such points. I am trying to point out why I am saying this; that we can take some arguments out of context, cut them off for a good purpose, and put them in a completely different environment where they will function differently. It's the same thing with the beekeeping academy. Yes, there are other ways of regulating this area, but Slovenia has given an extremely important recognition to the General Assembly of the United Nations in its efforts to eliminate global inequalities by confirming the world’s bee day. And now we are going to throw the most pollen under each other, how to take this project forward, while we want to drive it forward, that we have sincere intentions to help the underdeveloped countries to build knowledge, skills for not being dependent on development aid, on the intervention of the imperial West; but that they themselves, like the real anecdotes, will not get the fish, but will be able to catch it. In this case, they will develop their capacities to ensure their own food independence and development potential. Yes, there may be another alternative version of the academy that we can establish; but we can talk about it, Parliamentate and the project will stand. What is the fundamental purpose of this will not be realized. Finally, Slovenia will be the first at the declaration level in the fight to protect biodiversity and the first in the fight against poverty and global inequalities; but it will not do anything about it. It's just a high-level hypocrisy. I think we should look at it this way. By means of this law, we try to prevent the use of the stronger one in relation to the weaker one, try to make order within the food chain, even on the initiative or also on the cases cited by the Ombudsman established by this purpose, and follow this recommendation. It is trying to preserve Slovenia in the first place the fight of those who want a different environmental policy, who want to do something to combat global warming, to fight global inequalities. Within our agricultural sector, we want to eliminate the possibility of black work that is happening, to protect people who, also because of their social situation, which is an extremely sad situation, are forced to accept such work. It's not ideal; we're solving the situation and maybe someone will bring in a better one. When it's better on the table, we'll have to support it better. But just because it's not ideally typical, it's a bad argument that solutions that are on the table and are especially good for those who live with them on a daily basis would not be confirmed. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u36	Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Secretary of State, three colleagues and a colleague and, of course, to all Members and Members who are in the Chamber of the National Assembly! At the very beginning, I'm going to say that my colleague Lyudmila told you in such a human way and nicely told you how things were on the farm. All those who felt the farm from within view this matter substantially differently than those who see it from this hall or from the Square of the Republic. That's the first thing. The second thing I want to point out is that in any case, I support this solution. I was impressed by the way the Secretary of State explained these matters. I think these are the solutions that may bring results. One thing I'm sure of – the academy. I remember now, I was still young when one of the beekeepers said to me, "We have to look after the bees; don't God let the last bee go out of the world, and then the lives of the people on this earth will be no more." If we have this opportunity and the opportunity to offer our knowledge to the third world countries, we must take this with our full hand, with our full hand. This solution could also be different. I'm not gonna say it's the best solution right now, but it's a good one. If it turns out to be different, then it will move on to the government, then to the National Assembly, and a certain change will also be accepted; why not. Now we go to temporary or occasional work. All of these activities, which you listed and regulate in the law, are such activities when you actually need a lot of handiwork. The owner of the farm, the agricultural economy, is the one who will dictate how this work must be done, that is a logical matter. Ladies and gentlemen, don't think that I don't know what kind of rush this is going to be, don't think that ways are going to change very quickly. It's delusional to expect. I'll tell you on a plastic case. Once, when we were still producing sugar in Slovenia, Slovenian fields in some parts of Slovenia were sown with sugar beet. The sweet dog also needs quite a handiwork. What do you think the buttocks of this song were the most uplifting? Older women who had already retired or who had already done their work on the farm; young students were not on the farm. Believe me, college work on the farm is not to be expected. And maybe there's something else about the competition itself. Slovenia is a small country bordering Austria. The standard in Austria is significantly higher than in Slovenia. All those in the immediate vicinity of the Austrian border will go to work in Austria. Now I'm going to tell you cases of black work. In Slovenia, the farmer had to pay EUR 5 per hour if he wanted to get a worker. What do you think, almost once more got the one who went to work in Austria, got between €8 and €9. This is already one competition and it will be very difficult for Slovenian farms to get workers who would go to work in this way. But if we don't try to change some things, then we won't have a solution. As far as self-sustainment is concerned, self-sustainment is low. Resting farms, or I will say wiping farms, you know, we have a agricultural policy such as Western Europe, maybe someday, in the past we should think about a different strategy for the development of agriculture in Slovenia, but now we are trapped, we cannot from this trap, and small Slovenian farms are hard to adapt to the European market and [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Škodnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear secretary with a team, colleagues and fellow Members! I had to come over because I know this area of agriculture well, as my colleague Jurš said before me, who did not live on a farm and thus lived, is having a hard time discussing and discussing the seriousness of this problem in agriculture. I was very careful at the beginning, too, when colleague Tomić mentioned, say, workers some time ago, who were called taversi, this word, tavreh, is also known in Koroška. About a month ago, maybe even less, I was talking about how people used to come to farms and help, but for food, just for food, they didn't have anything else in mind. What my colleague, Mr Jurša, has just said to get students to work on farms, I don't think that's what this is. And we can't even talk about the holiday work on the farm, it's a very special area. If we want to help agriculture, we must also support this amendment and the amendments to this law. I believe that everything is not as good as some people say, but now that we are using all of this for a pre-election fight – we are all before the elections and we are all picking points so that there is no exception, let's be honest. But also to say that it is not for a big farmer, it is only for a small farmer or whatever – one gets a group of farmers something together, one gets another, and the farmer in general has to be helped, because if we don’t help him, then we don’t get it. We all speak, even on the committees heard, and on the Committee on Agriculture there are many times, as well as on this last one, when we have considered this proposal, a greater preference for the support of this law. To talk about what is actually a seasonal work – I see it, it is a time when someone, let's say vineyards, fruit growers, hop farmers, fruit growing is very wide, someone mentioned strawberries when they mature, they need to be picked up. In order that when a job has to be done, one of the farmers or employers who do it would go to the institution and say, “There are so many and so many people who are unemployed, could they get them?” We almost won't get any, because it's a special job, it's not that easy work. Many times it is mentioned here that they come to such works by Romanians — yes, I hear it too. It is very difficult to get domestic workers, but if we release some things to be interesting, they may also find themselves at home to contribute. To talk about unfair trade practices – I say they are everywhere. This is happening in any activity, so it is not only in agriculture. In the very details of this law, I will not let go, because, above all, the amendment that somehow releases these seasonal workers and speaks for it, I certainly support it. I have to say that I will support this marriage because I think it's good and we'll go to the farmer in at least a few details, because no matter what happens here can hurt, but it's only good. As far as beekeeping is concerned, I understand it as something of my own. This is a confirmation or some additional recognition to Slovenian beekeepers who have been trying for many years, and also an opportunity to get to know us abroad, we have actually become famous around the world. We also need to take advantage of these things in the field of tourism. I think that this matter will go this way, and here we must, regardless of policy, no matter what color we speak now, step together and thus contribute to increasing self-sustainment in the Slovenian space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate slowly? Thank you very much. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda. I'm breaking up the 2nd item of the agenda. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, it's a proposal for a law on the amendment of the law on divination and hunting after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. At its 29th session, on 6 March, the draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr Franc Laj will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go, Mr. Ly.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u40	Dear President, all others present, once again a very nice greeting on my part! As we have heard, it is a matter of amending Article 29 of the Wildlife and Hunting Act in order to ensure that concessions paid by hunting families, in accordance with the Environmental Protection Act, receive 100 per cent of their municipal budgets as earmarked funds and spend them on purpose, in order to implement conservation measures and invest in natural resources. We support this legal change. It is a pity that this amendment has not received sufficient support on the Committee. However, we support this – although small resources are involved, let me point out that the annual amount of concession for the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia is around EUR 250 000, but this small resource, if the remaining 50 % remains in the country and 50 % gain local communities, is lost, unfortunately in the integrated budget – this would be much better because these funds would be given more attention if they landed in municipal budgets. Why? Because the congregations have to deal with these funds deliberately, as I have pointed out, and they also have to make appropriate municipal decisions to use these funds. Here I see that added value, that it would make sense for this change to be supported in the future. Let me also point out that the Wildlife and Hunting Act certainly needs a broader change. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u41	Mr Simon Zajc will present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u42	Your Honor! Members of the SDS tabled a proposal to amend the law proposing that, instead of the concession being divided 50 : 50 between the State and the municipalities, this concession wholly belongs to the municipalities. In the SMC Group, we objected to this initial bill. In this regard, we would like to draw attention to the decision of the Constitutional Court, which stated in the decision number U-I-98/04 that for an arrangement where payment for a concession for the management, use and exploitation of game as a natural resource is entirely subject to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and is not shared between the State and the municipality, there are no legitimate reasons and is unconstitutional. However, the decision was issued on the basis of an initiative of local communities which claimed that, like the State, they were entitled to a partial concession fee. Therefore, the same logic applies to the country, and we cannot then adopt an arrangement that fully grants these concessions to the municipalities. While in the SMC Group we were prepared to support an arrangement where we would only raise the percentages that go to the municipalities, but the SDS Members did not do so, or at the table we received some impromptu amendments, which would keep 50% for those municipalities that do not respect the law and do not allocate these funds intentionally, and would reward those communities that respect the law and give 80% of these funds to those municipalities that use these funds deliberately. So it all got a little funny, and then we didn't confirm this marriage. I think that the responsibility that we have not found an arrangement that is appropriate is, in this case, unfortunately borne by the applicant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We will vote in the Slovenian Democratic Party against the fact that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration. This also gives us the possibility that if those who speak here are serious about the proposal of Ozir, because it is also true, obviously the matter will wait for the next term if given to us, to the Government, we will do so immediately, but if it is not given to us, we will, with a proposal – clearer, obviously, although I am sure that Mr Zajc will not be able to decide – the next term will come and vote on it. [[…]] It is sad, however, that it is not possible to give 250,000 euros from the state budget, not for hunters, but for the damage caused by savages. In short, this proposal is not for hunters; this proposal is for agricultural land owners who are harmed by game. We know what the damage is, the agricultural committee has already talked about it, it has already talked about it, the other problem is, of course, fishing for special purposes, but here our proposal does not touch them. The fact is that, given that hunting families are increasingly burdened by the damage that membership in the Hunting Union of Slovenia is underperforming, we can say that it is obvious that the country is following that it is the last blow to Slovenian hunting, and therefore, in a financial sense, also directly to hunting families, because if they have no finances, they cannot pay the damage that savages cause. What we have found on the committee is that apparently many congregations are already acting contrary to what the law says. In short, the dedicated revenue which the municipality receives from this budget heading must also be spent as a dedicated expenditure. Thus, only about half of the municipalities have adopted a decree on sustainable wildlife management, and all or money should also, if not through decrees, be directed directly to the hunting activity, to a game-prevention activity, or to a direct reparation for the damage caused by the game. The proposal was well-intentioned, the proposal was supported by some organisations, both hunting organisations and municipal organisations, and, last but not least, it is a proposal that they did not object to, at least in order to receive a letter, not by farmers or by foresters. That is to say, if we have agreement with hunters, farmers, foresters, municipalities, then the government willfully said: “No, we do not want this.” What the ruling coalition in this mandate – we can look at the committees – brings to the table, how some amendments are being corrected on some committees, how some compromises are being concluded, how we get documents just before the workers on the table, is no excuse to vote against it when it is said, "Yes, then the SDS has proposed an amendment or not split it up, the president has just read it, and so on." In short, these are attracted arguments for the hair. You do not want to give 250 000 euros to SMC Members and SD Members. Desus was not present at the committee meeting to be able to vote, given that one MP is a hunter, I am sure that it would be possible, however, if the proposal were adopted at that time. I don't know what lobby they're talking about. See, in this reference to Parliament, we are only three Members of the hunters and for the Hunting Union of Slovenia, for hunting families, for game and, consequently, for agriculture and forestry in this case, nothing has been done in this mandate. Apart from, of course, the increase in the shelling, which is not the only option and is only causing additional damage to hunting families, and on agricultural land and surfaces it will also not be known, since such a shooting is unfortunately not possible to be carried out with such membership, particularly as regards numbers.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u46	Your Honor! The Desus Group did not support the novel of the Wildlife and Hunting Act at its parent working body meeting. There were several reasons for this decision. One of them is that we agree with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that the proposed solutions constitute a derogation from the legal regime in accordance with the Environmental Protection Act. This law is a system law for the award of concessions on natural goods and provides that the State, as the owner of wild game, is to grant a concession for the sustainable management of game. Part of the concession payment also belongs to the municipality in which the concession is implemented. The second reason why we did not support the bill is that many municipalities do not have a decision to make money for the management or management of wild game, which is why money is lost, even though the applicable Wildlife and Hunting Act provides that the municipality’s allocated funds are expressed as assigned revenue and spent as earmarked expenditure on the implementation of conservation and investment measures in natural resources, i.e. wildlife management. We also listened to the representative of the Hunting Union of Slovenia at the meeting of his mother’s working body, who said that he really doesn’t care about money, the municipality or the country. It is important for them that money is actually spent for the purposes set out in the applicable law. He also briefed us on the fact that only half of the municipalities have adopted the decree already mentioned for sustainable wildlife management. These are exemplary congregations that return money back to the environment to the care of natural goods. In the Desus Group, we hope that he will listen to the warnings of the Hunting Union that money for wildlife management is getting smaller not only because of concessions but also because of the increasing number of hunters. For this reason, many projects are more difficult to implement, such as repopulation of the lynx or even construction of overpasses over motorways through which the wildlings could pass safely and smoothly. Such a solution to the influx of additional funds The hunting link of Slovenia brings government novelties, but we are afraid that it is too late for its adoption. Because, according to our assessment of the proposal for this novel of the Law on Wildlife and Hunting, it would not be the right solution for the money collected from hunting concessions to actually return to the natural environment, we have not supported this proposal for a novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! According to some other explanations, the Social Democrats did not support the bill for a simple reason, sending about 250 000 euros, which can be shared among 212 Slovenian municipalities. What amount does that represent, you can calculate for yourself. In our view, therefore, this is primarily about administratively different allocations of funds that have no significant impact and the current regime is more appropriate than the solution presented. Therefore, we will not oppose the decision arising from the decision of the parent working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Ms Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. The only explanation of why the law is needed in the bill is as follows: “Since the municipalities are those who are committed to implementing the measures of protection and investment in natural resources, we believe that it is appropriate for the entire concession fee to be allocated to the municipalities or 100 % of the municipality’s income.” I will only say this: the country is also committed to the implementation of protection and investment in natural resources. It seems somehow logical that part of the concession fee also comes from the state. Even more so, given that the state is the one who has the hunting right and grants it to the hunting families. And even more so, given that the wild is state property, at least for the time being, and we hope that will be the case. That is why we have not supported this proposal in the left hand side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. This concludes item 3 of the agenda. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is to the contrary the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Seed Material of Agricultural Plants after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Dr. Janez Poseid, Director General of the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for Safe Food, Veterinary and Plant Protection. [[advertising from the hall]] Good. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Tomaž Lisc. Here you go, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Seeds of Agricultural Plants was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food at its 29th regular meeting on 6 March this year. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which made specific comments to the article of the bill, the main part of the comments was taken into account in the amendments adopted by the coalition parliamentary groups. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supports the proposal for a law. The Director of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber participated in the discussion, stressing that the Chamber had participated in the drafting of the bill and had no comments on it. There was no debate on the individual articles of the bill. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee identified and adopted the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Simon Zajc will present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go, Mr. Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u54	Your Honor! The proposed law sets out in a clearer and more equitable manner the obligations of suppliers involved in the production, marketing or marketing of seed of agricultural plants in Slovenia. With the proposed amendments, the law in force is better adapted to the situations in which suppliers carry out their activities. Suppliers will be treated more equally, easier, more coordinated, systematic and effective implementation of official controls throughout the supply chain, from production to the final consumer, better alignment of this law with the Plant Health Act and the Offences Act will be achieved. The SMC Group supports amendments to the law as they ensure a more equal treatment of suppliers of seed materials of agricultural plants and more effective and fairer sanctioning. We must be aware that the cultivation of our own seeds is one of the most important things in our time. If we don't do this, the seeds of the seeds of the great multinationals will be wiped out. In order to ensure better control and equal treatment of all suppliers, it is proposed that they should be entered in the supplier register and be traceable, with fewer obligations in view of their role in the supply chain than suppliers who are also producing or preparing seed material for the market. The amendment also reduces the minimum prescribed fines for existing offences and complies with the law governing offences. The Inspector will be able to pass a fine higher than the minimum prescribed fine for repeated same infringements following a new rapid procedure. However, fines shall be added for distributors in the event of non-compliance with the obligations imposed on them. The maximum penalties are prescribed for serious infringements when, for example, the supplier is illegally producing and marketing seed material, bearing in mind that the seed can be the origin of new plant diseases and so on, we must ensure by law a sufficient preventive effect of the fines. For those reasons, our Group of Members, namely the SMC Group, will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u56	Thank you very much. At the outset, let me also announce the support of the Desus Group for this proposal for the amendment of the Law on Seed Material of Agricultural Plants, which is a very technical law and there has been virtually no debate on it in the home labour body. As we have already been informed by the Minister, the obligations of suppliers involved in the production and marketing of seed of agricultural plants are defined in a clearer and more equitable manner. Suppliers should be treated more equally according to their role in the supply chain in accordance with the novelty. At the same time, legal solutions are intended to facilitate, more coherent, systematic and effective implementation of official controls throughout the supply chain and from production to the final consumer. At the same time, the novelty is intended to bring this law into better alignment with other applicable rules, in particular the Plant Health Act and the Offences Act. This will require suppliers who, for the purpose of further wholesale sales, purchase the seed material they first place on the market to re-enter the supplier register. It is estimated by the Ministry that approximately 50 distributors engaged exclusively in the purchase and resale of seed material, in addition to the current 750 suppliers already registered in the supplier's register, would enter the supplier's safe food register within six months of the adoption of the law. All distributors will have to ensure the traceability of the seed material and verify it in accordance with the prescribed requirements on the basis of labels and other evidence indicating the seed material. As we also believe in the Desus Group that the adoption of the novel will increase the safety of buyers, while protecting existing seed producers, we will, as I announced at the beginning of the presentation of the position, support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u58	Thank you very much, again. Dear Vice President, Secretary of State! The appropriate arrangements and controls for the supply of seed material sound very technical, but far from irrelevant. This is an area that interferes with two segments of our society and our lives. The first can potentially address essential elements of public health and, on the other hand, achieve our fundamental objectives both environmental and agricultural policy. In view of all the events that have accompanied the development and adoption of transnational free trade agreements and agreements between the European Union and the United States of America and Canada, it should be pointed out that one of the strategic decisions is both the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union in order to prevent certain or most genetically modified products from entering the area and the agricultural sector of this continent and our country. It is therefore irrelevant how we will regulate the supply of seed material and therefore it is not irrelevant how traceability is ensured in this area. For we must make sure that, even through modified products, something we do not want creeping into our habitat quietly. The law also provides for more appropriate arrangements for the protection of buyers, both large and small, in this area and is worthy of support from this point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u59	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking up with the fourth item of the agenda. We're moving to five. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Veterinary Compliance Standards Act after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Tanja Strniša, State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go, mag. Tanya Strnisha.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u60	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the last 12 years since the implementation of the Veterinary Compliance Criteria Act, the epizootiological situation in Slovenia and Europe and neighbouring regions has changed significantly, particularly under the influence of climate change and the free movement of goods. New, particularly dangerous animal diseases previously considered exotic occur in the EU area and now pose an increasing risk to both animal and human health, such as avian influenza, bluetongue, African swine fever, knotted dermatitis, osmosis of sheep and goats, smallpox plague. As a result of the emergence and spread of these diseases, we urgently need a system that will enable rapid and effective action to prevent introduction and spread. However, in some cases it was necessary for the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Food Safety and Veterinary Affairs to have the possibility of issuing acts in force throughout the territory or part of the territory of Slovenia with professional support for deciding on measures for the protection of human and animal health when such a disease occurs. The proposed amendment therefore adds powers to the Director-General for the issuance of acts which, in this case, may be valid throughout Slovenia or in part of the territory and allow for rapid and effective action to prevent the introduction and spread of diseases. The applicable law also provides for which laboratories are approved and whose conditions they must comply with, but is not specified in the law, in which cases there is a cancellation of the appointment, and this should be further specified and it should be specified at the same time that the appeal against the decision to withdraw the concession does not suspend the enforcement. In such a case, it will be possible for the Director-General to enter into a contract with another laboratory of another Member State which meets the conditions laid down in the relevant European Regulation in the event of termination of the concession, as it is necessary to ensure that analyses are provided for the continuous implementation of official controls. It is further specified in the law in force that the Director-General of the Administration, by decision in the administrative procedure, shall, after the official duty of one of the designated laboratories, designate a national reference laboratory to each reference laboratory of the European Union, but shall not specify in which cases such a laboratory loses its status and that the appeal against a decision on the loss of status does not suspend its enforcement, which shall be governed by the addition of the law. The draft law therefore lays down in which cases the National Reference Laboratory loses its status: if it has been deprived of its appointment, if it is in breach of its obligations or if it is in serious breach of its concession contract; and if so, the appeal does not suspend its enforcement. Furthermore, the last case, in the law in force, the holder of the animal shall have the option of deciding whether to review all animals on the holding or for killing only in the case of the presence of prohibited or unauthorised substances in half or more official samples taken as a statistically representative sample. In the proposal before you, however, the residue management procedure is more precisely divided where the presence of banned or unauthorised substances is also detected in less than half of the official samples. In such a case, the owner of the animal may decide to inspect all the animals at his own expense or to have all the animals put to death at his expense, which is more favourable in the present case for the holder of the animal. I believe that the proposed amendments to the law will contribute to more effective action in the event of disease occurrence and to the effective implementation of official controls for the protection of human and animal health, so I propose that you adopt the proposed amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to Mr Tomaž Lisc to present the report of the Committee. Here you go, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u62	Thank you again for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, colleagues, colleagues! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the bill at its 29th regular meeting on 6 March this year. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which made specific comments on the article of the bill. The main part of the comments is taken into account in the amendments adopted by the coalition parliamentary groups. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supports the proposal for a law. Representatives of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, the Veterinary Chamber of Slovenia and the Union of Farmers of Slovenia participated in the discussion and stressed that they supported the bill. There was no debate on the individual articles of the bill. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee identified and adopted the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go, Mr. Kopmeyer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me also give support to the amendment of the Veterinary Compliance Criteria Act at the beginning of the presentation of the Desus Group's position, as we believe it brings good solutions to the increased risk of certain dangerous infectious diseases in animals in our area and, consequently, in Slovenia. Thus, the novelty gives legal basis to the Director-General of the Food Safety Authority in order to enable the Administration to act swiftly and effectively in preventing the introduction and spread of dangerous animal diseases. Let me list some of these diseases, for example, avian influenza, which we call domestic bird flu, bluetongue, which affects all ruminants, including domestic animals such as poultry, cattle, and wild game, African swine fever, ostrich sheep and goats, and so on. The result of such diseases is the threat to human lives and the occurrence of severe economic damage, so in the event of these dangerous diseases occurring in our neighbourhood and on the domestic soil, rapid action is necessary both on agricultural holdings and administratively by issuing individual decisions on animal holdings. For reasons of urgency, it is not possible to wait for a decision to be published in the Official Journal, since it is often a matter of hours or even minutes, and it is therefore authorised to act swiftly to the Director of the Food Safety Authority. In order to provide professional support for decision-making on measures for the protection of human and animal health, urgent assistance is provided for experts for whom payment must be provided in accordance with the rules of the Government governing meetings and reimbursement of costs. As I said at the beginning of the presentation of the position, we will support the proposal in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Simon Zajc will present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u66	Your Honor! The situation in both Slovenia and the European Union and neighbouring regions has changed since the implementation of the current Veterinary Compliance Criteria Act. Also in Slovenia, new dangerous diseases are emerging in our vicinity, which pose a risk to animal and human health, so we need to change the existing system in a way that will enable faster action to prevent the introduction and spread of disease and thus cause harmful consequences. We must also be aware of the economic consequences or economic damage. Diseases may have major economic consequences, mainly due to indirect damage and losses caused by the ban on movements of animals or products both on the European Union common market and on exports to third countries, as well as to the prohibition of fishing. Economic damage can also result in high deaths. The key amendment to the current law therefore relates to the determination of the legal basis to the Director-General of the Food Safety Authority, Veterinary and Plant Protection, which allows him to act quickly. Today, in the event of suspicion of the occurrence or spread of communicable diseases, the State Center for Disease Control issues instructions which are transmitted through the Director-General to the regional offices which issue the following decisions. Since such an arrangement causes too long a response, it is now proposed that the Director-General be able to declare the necessary activities immediately in the event of an outbreak or threat of certain diseases in the territory of Slovenia. This mandate is also important for preventive action when, for example, the disease is already present in neighbouring countries and has not yet been regulated by regulations or measures taken at European Union level. The same is true when you have a particularly dangerous disease or disease that is new to you. This is the case when the disease caused severe economic damage in neighbouring countries or the Balkans. The disease spreads rapidly, mainly with movements of live animals. The disease is characterized by major losses. In the past, the disease was limited to countries in sub-Saharan Africa, then it occurred in all African countries, in 2015 it first appeared in the European Union, and in particular spread to countries in the Western Balkans – Macedonia, Serbia, Albania, Kosovo and Montenegro. It also applies to the intensive spread of African swine fever in feral pigs in Europe, especially in such cases the issue of care and self-care is raised in Slovenia, as only 30% of the pigs we need are raised in Slovenia. For these reasons, our Group of Members, the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, will support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u67	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking up with this point 5 of the agenda. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments to the Veterinary Act after the termination of the procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. Tanji Strniša.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u68	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Veterinary care is an area that is constantly complementary and changing, mainly due to the ever-increasing ways of controlling and controlling the production of food of animal origin. Veterinary care is also an area which is extremely closely regulated in European Union legislation. Veterinary legislation is also extremely extensive and complex in the Republic of Slovenia and is subject to urgent changes if we want the protection of the consumer and the protection of health and animal welfare to be comparable and effectively regulated. Animal welfare is the primary objective of amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act. We define welfare as a veterinary activity and include it in the public veterinary service network. Slovenia needs continuous professional and scientific support in the field of animal welfare. The veterinary activities carried out by the National Veterinary Institute as the activities for which the concession is granted shall therefore include the activity of animal protection against torture and animal welfare by amending the law. It will allow the establishment of a national animal welfare reference centre, whose tasks include scientific and professional baselines for animal welfare and the preparation and implementation of risk assessments in this field. The second area covered is the conclusion of collective agreements in the veterinary field by allowing the Veterinary Chamber to play an active role. For the field of veterinary activity, it has been shown that specific circumstances need to be adequately regulated as they relate to the provision of a public service covering work under specific working conditions, in particular where an outbreak of animal disease occurs. The primary tasks performed by the Veterinary Chamber include representation of members and the exercise of the interests of the profession. In view of the above, the mandate of collective agreements for veterinary activity, of course for the private sector, is to be added to the Veterinary Chamber in the amendment to the Regulation. The following amendment provides for the award of a concession for the performance of the public veterinary service to operators on the basis of tenders published in the Official Journal or the award of the concession is duly regulated in the applicable law and in the field of concessions are specified in the amendment of the award procedures and the grounds for the withdrawal of the concession in the event of an irregularity are further laid down and it is also laid down that the appeal against the decision to withdraw the concession shall not be suspended. In the event of irregularities found to be the reason for the withdrawal of the concession, rapid action is crucial for the entity to cease its concession activity because the exercise of the concession activity involves work in the field of protection of human and animal health. That amendment specifies the types of withdrawal of the concession. Let me conclude that I believe that the proposed amendments to the law will contribute to strengthening the awareness that animal welfare is an important veterinary activity and that scientific support in this area is essential for effective control. I also believe that the proposed amendments will strengthen the role of the Veterinary Chamber in consolidating the veterinary profession and allow veterinary care to effectively carry out work on the protection of human and animal health. I therefore propose that you support the proposed amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u69	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Tomaž Lisc.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u70	Thank you, President, for your word. Once again, a respected secretary of state with a coworker, a colleague, a colleague, all together a nice greeting! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act was considered at its 29th regular session on 6 March 2018. The Committee first took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which made specific comments to the article on the draft law, which was taken into account in the amendments adopted by the coalition parliamentary groups. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supports the proposal for a law. A representative of the Veterinary Chamber of Slovenia took part in the debate, which stressed that the Chamber supports the bill and has no comments on it. There was no debate on the individual articles of the bill. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee identified and adopted the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u71	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u72	Your Honors are here! Thank you for your word. The novelty of the Veterinary Act, as assessed by our parliamentary group, brings positive solutions, as there are provisions in the legal solutions to treat animal welfare as a veterinary activity, thus becoming part of the public veterinary service. The fact that this concern was not defined as part of a public network under the current legislation made it difficult to provide professional and scientific support for the implementation of animal welfare rules. Such additions are particularly welcome in these modern times, when people are increasingly aware that we are responsible for animal welfare, for their safety and health, because we are people who represent their voice and defend their rights. That is why we are so much more pleased that animal protection against torture and welfare will be included among the veterinary activities carried out by the National Veterinary Institute for which the concession is granted. It is a public veterinary service which includes scientific and professional sources of animal welfare, preparation and implementation of risk assessments in this field. As we are aware of the responsibilities of the veterinarians and of their work as a specific specification, we support the solution that the Veterinary Chamber is added to the task of concluding collective contracts for the activity of veterinary activity on behalf of private employers, similar to in the field of health and functioning of the Medical Chamber. The applicable legislation regulates the procedure for granting veterinary concessions, but the termination of the contract and the withdrawal of the concession is not regulated due to irregularities, and this amendment provides a legal basis for the delimitation of the temporary and permanent withdrawal of the concession due to repeated infringements. At the same time, a provision is added to the legal solutions that the appeal against the decision to withdraw the concession does not suspend the enforcement, as immediate action is necessary in the event of an irregularity. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that the proposal for a novel brings solutions that will work positively in the field of the implementation of veterinary services, so we will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u73	The word is given by the Left Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Animals are not an insensitive object, but they are capable of feeling, self-awareness, and, as a result, suffering. Nevertheless, animals are still exposed to inadequate living conditions and misconduct every day. One of the main reasons for this is the pursuit of profits that the capitalist system places on the welfare of all other living things. Animal welfare is neglected and largely abandoned in our society to individuals and societies involved in animal protection. They live on voluntary contributions and voluntary work by their members and supporters. The country, however, is mostly not concerned with animal welfare. We therefore welcome and support the proposal for a new Veterinary Law which includes animal welfare in the activities of the public veterinary service network. Veterinary care must be designed, in addition to protecting and improving animal health, to ensure the health adequacy of feed, to ensure the reproduction of animals from the point of view of animal health and all other tasks performed by the public health service, to protect animals from torture and to ensure the welfare of animals. Complementing the public veterinary service network with the activity of animal protection against torture and with welfare provides a basis for independent scientific support in the field of animal protection. No such designation is currently possible on the basis of the rules in force, and the Veterinary Act, which we are considering today, is complemented accordingly. In addition, the amendment of the Act complements the provisions relating to concessions for the performance of the veterinary service. The procedures for granting concessions are already clearly defined here and, with regard to termination, it is further stipulated that the appeal against the withdrawal decision does not suspend enforcement. In the event of irregularities found to be the reason for the withdrawal of the concession, it is essential that the entity ceases to carry out the concession activity because the exercise of the concession activity involves work in the field of protection of human and animal health. However, the last amendment introduced by law is to strengthen the role of the Veterinary Chamber in the conclusion of collective agreements in the veterinary field. The integration of all veterinarians into the Single Veterinary Chamber has strengthened the veterinary profession, but since the legal arrangements of the tasks performed by the Veterinary Chamber of Slovenia have been carried out for many years, the need to complete the tasks has been demonstrated. The amendment of the regulation proposes an additional task for the conclusion of collective veterinary contracts. In Levi, we believe that marriage is good and that the changes it brings are positive. In particular, we welcome the extension of the tasks of the public veterinary service with the care of animal welfare. This is a small but symbolic step towards strengthening the country's role in animal welfare, so we will support the law in Levica. However, we are aware that there will be much work to be done to ensure the welfare of animals in the future, particularly in the food industry. Here, unfortunately, animals are treated as raw materials in the working process, with the aim of maximising the profits of the owners of this industry. Animals are exposed to poor living conditions and cruel treatment, resulting from low standards for the welfare of animals determined by the State. In Levica we advocate changes that will enable animals to live without needless suffering, for changes that will finally recognize certain rights as human beings, for changes that will stop animals from being raw materials, objects, property, but like us sensitive beings. And since caring for the welfare of animals is one of the foundations on which we can build these changes, we will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Veterinary Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u75	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u76	Your Honor! Veterinary care is an area that is constantly being complemented, as it is also extremely extensive and complex in European Union legislation, including for the protection of the consumer and for the protection of health. The European Union is also paying increasing attention to ensuring adequate nutrition, living conditions and optimal management of animals, so we need to make the animals feel as good as possible physically and mentally. The European Union is therefore taking a leading role in the field of welfare for breeding animals. Slovenia has already transposed European veterinary legislation into its legal order, while awareness of the importance of welfare for health, longevity, commodity and the quality of food of animal origin has emerged later. While the market share of products that expose animal welfare is increasing abroad, we also have more and more breeders entering the animal welfare measure. This measure, which ensures the above-standard conditions for animal welfare, applies to pigs, cattle and poultry. The main objective of this measure is to improve the conditions of rearing, i.e. standards for feed, accommodation, grazing and animal release, and thus the welfare of domestic animals. Animal welfare includes health, well-being, natural behaviour and also psychological dimension, so that animals do not suffer from pain, fear or anxiety. Such rearing means additional value to the final products, meat and meat, and so-bred meat and prepared milk can achieve a better price on the market. The basic objective of the law was to include animal welfare in the public veterinary service network on the basis of the reference to veterinary activity. According to the law, this activity will be carried out by the National Veterinary Institute as a public veterinary service, which includes scientific and professional baselines for animal welfare, preparation and implementation of risk assessments in this field. Further on the proposal for a law on the specificity of the public service work, the mandate of the Veterinary Chamber of Slovenia is to conclude collective agreements for the activity of the veterinary service on behalf of private employers. It is a similar arrangement as the health sector knows where the Medical Chamber of Slovenia performs this task. The proposal for a law also introduces changes in concessions, in addition to the way in which concessions are withdrawn. The proposed amendment provides for the suspension of the concession on the basis of the decision to withdraw the concession, the permanent withdrawal is provided for in cases of repeated infringements. A provision has also been added that the appeal against the decision to withdraw the concession shall not hold enforcement, in particular with a view to preventing repetition and the occurrence of situations where the infringements may recur. For these reasons, the SMC Group will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u77	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking the sixth point of the agenda. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Receipts of Business Persons in Economic Companies in the majority of the population of the Republic of Slovenia and the self-government of local communities following a reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of five Members and first-signed Dr. Mate Tashner Vatovec. The bill is at the 33rd session of the 7th. 3. 2018 treated the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The word is given by the Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u78	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everybody! Today, we will not vote on the proposal of the Left to justly limit the salaries of managers in companies owned by the majority of the Republic of Slovenia. By rejecting the proposal for a bill on the committee, you have avoided voting at the plenary session, which has also burdened yourself with the responsibility of deciding on the proposal of the Left and thus once again demonstrated the achievement of the degree of democracy. What did we propose in Levica? We have proposed a recast of the so-called Law of Laholovnik in such a way that the basic salaries of directors and other managers are determined in relation to the lowest wage in a particular company, namely 1:5. This simply means that raising the highest wages would be possible only if the lowest wages were raised and that stagnation or the decline in wages of the worst paid workers would also mean stagnation or a fall in the salaries of those who lead society. In addition, we have proposed that a bad bank and companies under the auspices of SDH be reintroduced into the scope of this law, i.e. exceptions that were established during the reigns of Janez Janša and Alenka Bratušek. Exceptions that allowed companies to pay their astronomical wages and rich rewards regardless of their performance. The current limit, which is linked to the average wage, means that raising the highest wages is possible without knowing it at the lowest wages. The current legislation thus has no effect on the relationship between the highest and lowest wages and thus on the reduction of income differences within businesses. On the contrary, the current regime preserves wages and privileges of the management class at an extremely high level. The directors of state-owned enterprises receive up to €15 000 a month, and these basic salaries, which are limited by the Law of Lakhovnik, also have to include a 30 % variable share, reimbursement of costs, special insurance, ratings and other benefits, and last but not least a rich retirement that reaches amounts comparable to the amount that workers earn on minimum wages in six years. In this way, managers can receive up to 200,000 euros a year, which is as much as the average wage earners in ten years of work and the minimum wage workers in 20 years. We didn't propose anything radical in Levica. If our proposal had been adopted, assuming that the lowest wage in the company was EUR 1000 gross, the director of this company could still receive EUR 5,000 of basic salary and, taking into account the variable work, could receive up to EUR 6 000 500, he would have maintained all the ratings and rich retirements of up to EUR 30,000. Also on our proposal, managers could still receive higher salaries than the highest government officials in the 65th salary class, namely the President of the Government, the President of the National Assembly, the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court and others. To make no mistake, the salaries of politicians are not too low, the salaries of managers are too high, and the wages of workers are actually too low. In Levica, we will not accept the discourse that most obviously blindly follow, so once again, the problem is not too low a manager's salary, the problem is too low the wages of workers who work hard over 40 hours a week and who leave their lives in these companies so that their bosses can eat up on the surpluses created by the working class. The problem is wages that do not allow people to live a normal and decent life. Until the ruling class, with favourable economic indicators and billions of profits, has agreed to an increase in the minimum wage, it has no right to defend that the salary is EUR 6 000 500 or more. For this luxury of management class there is no rational explanation, only a consequence of the power ratios in society. This is because the rich share the surplus created by the work of all, while the workers keep the wages at a level that barely, if at all, makes it possible to survive. Such relationships do not represent a natural state for us, but they are simply the result of the supremacy and absolute overpowerment of capital, not a class of managers over employment.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u79	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Marko Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting, Secretary of State! The so-called Lawmaker's law was subject to too much controversy in this mandate. Somehow it was indicated that we would fix or supplement the law all the time, but there never was and probably won't be for a while. While several more extraordinary situations have taken place at this time, including these coalitions, with regard to the remuneration of managers, which was also a politically difficult move for any amendment. There is now a pre-election time here that makes all this debate even more politicized without any real foundations and some serious professional debate. The Group of Members of the United Left is in a reduced procedure in the DZ [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I fixed it, Left, Left, Violeta. It immediately tabled its proposal for a law according to which the amount of payment would be fixed in relation to the minimum gross salary paid by the company and not in relation to the average gross salary as set out so far. They therefore suggest that the limited ratio should be no more than 1 to 5. The proposed law would thus aim to achieve more equitable wage relations in companies in the direct or direct majority ownership of the Republic of Slovenia and the self-government local communities. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the proposal of Levice further limits wages, which could result in an even more limited selection and selection of possible candidates for employment, which are important both in terms of economic growth and in the provision of basic services and goods for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The days of socialism and the equalizer are over, I'm sorry. The multi-annual implementation of the existing law has shown difficulties in obtaining adequate professional staff for some of the most demanding jobs. Rigid fixing of the amounts of remuneration is not always the case on the basis of the size of the company, as other important impacts and aspects such as the state of competition, the export orientation of the company, the fulfilment of the objectives set, the organisational complexity, the competition in the industry, the circumstances of whether or not it is a company in restructuring and so on and so on. All of these could have a significant impact on the competitiveness of state-owned enterprises and, consequently, on the value of state investment. The proposed amendment of the law to such dilemmas and aspects does not respond, but is more rigid in determining the amounts of remuneration. According to available information, members of administrations and members of the supervisory boards – there could be further debate on their responsibility, but – in comparable companies in the Republic of Slovenia they do not receive comparable payments from management and competition companies in the European Union. It should also be pointed out that national legal restrictions on certain companies are even stricter than those resulting from European regulations. The SMC Group as liberals, not neoliberals or socialists, is looking for a rational medium if you want a new, modern path. During this time, we wanted to amend the law in order to ensure better governance in state-owned enterprises and owned by local communities, which is why in the SMC Group we consider that the proposed amendment to the Law on the remuneration of managers in companies owned by the majority of the Republic of Slovenia and the local self-government communities is not appropriate and will have to wait until after the elections. Certain changes will be necessary here, but not in the form sought by the proposer. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u81	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u82	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone! The aim of the novel, rejected on the labour market, is to achieve more equitable wage relations in companies owned by the Republic of Slovenia and local communities. The amount of payments by managers would thus be fixed at a maximum of 1 to 5 in relation to the lowest gross wage in the company or group for the previous financial year. The issue of wages is extremely sensitive. Too many employees pay their salaries in a country that can boast of high economic growth today, and on the other hand, we have many business people, directors who have recently and high wages despite causing great damage and the loss of many businesses. It would therefore be wrong to claim that such conduct was merely due to their inadequate salaries. Unfortunately, even higher wages alone do not mean that someone with high moral and ethical standards will take the lead. However, adequate payments are also needed for the most responsible jobs, and all relations are broken today. Anomalies in this area are largely due to poor supervision and irresponsibility of supervisors, often of the policy itself, but not to the appropriateness of the existing regime. However, before discussing the wages of the most responsible in our country, we believe that all those living under the poverty threshold today must first be taken care of. The proposed amendment to the law further limits the remuneration of managers in companies owned by the majority of the country and local communities, which may be a welcome proposal for some, but which could limit the relatively poor recruitment of candidates for employment today, which has a significant impact on economic growth and the well-being of all of us. In the Desus Group, we believe that the existing law, given our situation, regulates the salaries of managers in an appropriate way, which still provides an adequate opportunity to control the highest salaries and at the same time the interests of quality staff for leading jobs. However, we should pay much more attention to the responsible work of managers and, above all, to the way they are selected, as everything still applies too often: no matter what it is, it is important that it is ours. We will not support the proposal for a bill in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u83	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. This concludes item 7 of the agenda. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the remuneration of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of education after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Andreja Barle Lakota.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! In fact, you have before you a law on amendments and additions to a law that is conceptually without prejudice to the current regime, but it is about changes that are very important. I'll tell you why. The fact that education is an important factor in the development of an individual and society may not be particularly necessary to lose words, nor does it mean that the role of a teacher has a key impact on the quality of education. That is why we have already begun to award some awards to those with special quality in carrying out their mission, over 50 years ago. In 1994, a law was passed, for which we are now proposing amendments to the law, namely the Law on the Awards of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of education. This law regulated the way and procedures and, above all, who are the ones who can receive the prizes. However, with the current changes, we want to deal with the following. With the current changes, we want to arrange for a way of awarding rewards so that we have only two types of awards, both for outstanding achievements and for life's work, and no more rewards in each area. It turned out that there were quite a few reward recipients who could be awarded prizes in a number of areas. At the same time, we clearly determine when and in what case we could award the prize for outstanding achievements and life’s work. We also regulate the terminology of the law, which has not been amended since 1994, by aligning it with other laws in this field and at the same time regulating the conditions for the award of prizes. It is therefore less difficult to change, and we do not really interfere with the concept of law itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u85	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u86	Thank you very much. How nice to meet you! At its 42nd regular meeting on 7 March this year, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth discussed the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Educational Awards of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The proposed law has been examined and commented on by the Legislative and Legal Service in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative technical aspects. Her representative explained that all their comments had been taken into account in the proposed amendments to the coalition. The Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which supported the proposal of the law, also gave its opinion. In the introduction, the draft law was presented by the representative of the proposer, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Andrej Barle Lakota. A discussion followed, in particular, on the proposal for an amendment to the committee tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. The amendment proposed, inter alia, that the composition of the Education Awards Committee take into account the sexual balance of the members. Some felt that there was a need to maintain sexual balance, that the teacher’s profession was a mission, and that work in education should be recognised and rewarded, and that the importance of the teacher’s role in society should be recognized and rewarded. After the discussion on the individual articles of the bill, the Committee adopted an amendment to the coalition parliamentary groups and a proposal for an amendment to the committee. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u87	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Irena Kotnik has the floor of the Modern Centre's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u88	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The role of teacher has changed radically in recent decades. This has been fostered by broader social changes, but also by educational institutions for their own reasons, which are reflected in the daily work of our educators and educators. Regardless of all the changes, teachers have been maintaining their key mission all this time. They are key agents and builders of the knowledge of our preschool children, students, students and students, and it is also important that each year the country recognises and rewards exceptional individuals and individuals in various fields and levels of education and education. As a whole society, we can therefore be proud that in 2016 it has been half a century since the award of outstanding achievements in education and education. Today's novels of the Law on the Awards of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of education, which does not conceptually interfere with the manner and procedure of awarding awards, but removes certain shortcomings that have been demonstrated in the implementation of the current law, are being adopted in the shadow of recent negotiations with trade unions. As early as February, at the first sentence of the staff in education and education, we stressed that the issues addressed by teachers and educators should be addressed at the common table and in dialogue. If we want to talk about the welfare of children, parents and all employees, this is a responsibility both to the government and to the unions. Unfortunately, today it is more than clear that the government has behaved much more responsibly than the work of the trade union side in finding solutions. The search for consensus is always a bilateral duty, so it is obvious — that the government or its president has prevented the conclusion of negotiations; what is evident to the Government is not true — at least not serious, if not irresponsible. Nevertheless, it should be pointed out that important steps have recently been taken both in the area of wages and other measures that have had an impact on the improvement of the situation of teachers. Let us not forget the progress made by pay grade in 2018, the improvement of the social situation of the worst paid in group J, the changes and additions to the collective agreement for education and education activities, after more than two decades, are clearly outlined the framework of the teacher's work or their working time and work obligation. Many projects also implement commitments on professional development. In doing so, we do not think that the professional empowerment of teachers is complete; all of us are facing many challenges in this area in the future. In the SMC Group, we will, of course, support the amendment of the Law on the Awards of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of education, and we are also pleased that, with the amendment adopted at the meeting of the parent working body, we have achieved sexual balance in the composition of the committee, thus following the arrangements for the award of the Puhov and Prešeren prizes. Facing educational, social and economic challenges makes the role of teachers more important every day. It is appropriate to pay sufficient attention to the teaching profession, so let us pay first attention to our teachers, including by awarding the highest prizes in the field of education. The quality and excellence of our educational system cannot be created or developed without its key pillar, that is, the teacher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u89	Before I give the floor forward, however, although my Group is my Group of Members, I must warn you that one piece of explanation was not really about this point. The last part, the last minute was fine, and the second minute I'm going to ask for others to try, because we have to make it through, and it's going to be a lot, but I'm not going to say anything else than to warn. [[…]] If I start with mine, it makes the most sense. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Peter Wilfan has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u90	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, the rest are present! I'm really going to follow that direction, and I'm going to be honest with you as soon as possible. The awards of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of education or until 1994 known as the Žagara Award are awarded each year for outstanding achievements and life work in the field of education and education. The first Zhagar Prize was thus awarded in 1957. The current Law on the Awards of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of education was adopted in 1994, precisely because of the terminology of obsolescence, clarity of the legal provisions and their consistency with other provisions in the field of education and education, the proposed amendments to the amendment are needed. In Desus, we will support the proposal for a new law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u91	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Hello, everyone in this hall! The Republic of Slovenia recognises the importance of specific achievements in the field of education and education, and it has developed a system for awarding prizes, which in different terms has been awarded for more than 50 years. This shows the attitude towards the subsystem as particularly important not only for the development of each individual in it, but also for the development of society in general. The proposal for a novel Law on the Awards of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of education is without prejudice to the concept of awarding awards. As the applicant explains, the awards and their recipients are clearly defined and the proposal contains terminology harmonisation with other laws in the field of education and education and corrects some minor shortcomings in the current regime. In the Group of Social Democrats, we would like to point out that the prize is only one form of state recognition, the prize is intended only for a handful of individuals and individuals or groups that contribute to the development of this area. We believe that the people of this profession do not perform to receive this or that reward, but to create conditions for a better future for children. In view of the international comparative analyses that our education and education system is one of the best, they are also doing so. It is therefore necessary to seek and seek ways to recognise and properly evaluate the work of all employees in education. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are so sorry that the negotiators have missed the opportunity to agree on such an evaluation. For we want not only to be a politician but also as a society to appreciate the contribution of employees in education and education, to the well-being of the whole community. In the parliamentary group, we will, of course, support the proposed amendment to the Law on the Awards of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u93	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking the 8th item of the agenda. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on participation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Dark Staret.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! At its regular meeting in December 2017, the Government set out the text of the proposed law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union in order to ensure the implementation of the Directive on European Investigation. The aim of this Directive or the proposed amendment to the law is to strengthen instruments for judicial cooperation and to ensure that the system of cooperation between the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union in the field of pre-trial, criminal and infringement proceedings is as uniform as possible. To this end, the Directive establishes a so-called European Detention Order, which can be issued by carrying out one or more investigative or investigative measures. The proposal for a new law follows the system of the existing law, which has been established in our country for cooperation with EU Member States since 2007, and we complement Chapter 9 with a new Chapter 9.a, which, with a view to implementing the Directive, lays down specific rules concerning certain specific investigation measures relating in particular to the hearing of witnesses through videoconferences, the hearing of witnesses and experts with so-called teleconferences, which allow for the collection of evidence, the seizure of objects, documentation and, of course, the collection of evidence in real time, in particular in the area of bank traffic monitoring and controlled shipments. As it is said, we are essentially supplementing the existing law with the aim of implementing the directive, and at this point in Europe there is a final implementation of this Directive in six other countries, so we propose that you adopt this law and thus allow more enhanced and effective judicial cooperation in the field of criminal proceedings and also criminal proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u95	The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. I give the floor to President Jan Škobernet to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Justice Committee considered the law at its 47th session, where it took note of the opening presentation, the written support of the Supreme Court and the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, and given that no amendments had been tabled, voted on and supported all the articles of the law without discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u97	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Marko Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State, all Members of Parliament! The main objective of the proposed amendment to the Law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union is to transpose the Directive, in relation to the acquisition of evidence in cross-border cases in the field of criminal law laid down by the European Investigation Order. In 2014, a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning a European criminal investigation order was adopted. Member States should therefore implement it by 22. 5. 2017. Slovenia has already notified the European Commission of partial implementation since the applicable Law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union already contains an appropriate chapter which transposes into the Slovenian legal order the framework of the Council Decision on a European Evidence Order for the purposes of obtaining items, documents and data for use in criminal proceedings. By means of its solutions, the novelty amends the provisions governing the European Evidence Order by complying with the regulation of a wider European Investigation Order, but also lays down specificities relating to certain investigations or measures, in particular by means of covert investigation measures. The solutions offered will, in the Slovenian legal order, simplify the system of cooperation between the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union in the area of obtaining evidence for the purposes of criminal proceedings and criminal proceedings. The system in force so far has been fragmented and complicated and the adoption of the proposed amendments is therefore necessary. Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Cooperation in Criminal Matters with the Member States of the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u99	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u100	As far as the task or the law before us is concerned, the implementation of European rules is concerned. The job should have been done, you all forgot to say it, but we didn't do it 11 months ago, so the minister is doing it 11 months late. As far as content is concerned, we have no problem with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u101	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u102	Your Honor! The bill that we are considering today is the product of successful professional and interdepartmental coordination and has also been supported by the Supreme Court and the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office. It should be said that there are no comments on the proposal for a law-law service of the National Assembly and also of the Council of Justice. The implementation is based on the Directive on the European Investigation Order in Criminal Matters, which aims to harmonise the system of cooperation between the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union in order to obtain evidence for the purposes of criminal proceedings and infringement procedures. For example, the regulation of a wider European task is introduced into our legal order, covert investigative measures are being regulated, a single instrument is being introduced, a single investigative task being issued for the execution of one or more investigative measures or actions by another Member State of the European Union. We need to clarify that the system of cooperation between the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union regarding the acquisition of evidence for the purposes of criminal proceedings and infringement procedures does not apply only to nationals of the Member States of the European Union, as can be seen from the outset. The proposal for a law governs cooperation between EU Member States and does not relate to the nationality of persons who commit a crime or offence, but refers to the offences committed by those Member States and committed in their territory. In other words, this circle of persons also includes the people of other countries who are dealing, for example, in the territory of the Member States of the European Union with the illegal transport of refugees, which is unfortunately a major problem today. This means that even if someone from a third country commits a crime with us or in another Member State of the European Union, cooperation between the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union will proceed in accordance with the solutions in this proposal. Of course, we support such solutions in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u103	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the definitive provision have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the draft law. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking the 9th point of the agenda. We're moving to 23. At the end of the day, this is the first defensively proposed bill on termination of proceedings against the associates of deleted companies. The draft law was tabled by Mr Janko Weber. With regard to this bill, a group of eleven Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jank Webro requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the proposaler, Mr Jank Webr.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, President. Good-bye, everybody! The proposal for a law on the cessation of proceedings against the shareholders of deleted companies mitigates the serious consequences suffered by citizens as shareholders in capital companies because their personal property is at risk. The Financial Operations Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination were adopted in 2007. The very purpose of the law was basically good, since it was intended to remove non-functional and non-capitalised companies for the basic purpose of the Court Registry, and the indirect objective was to improve payment discipline and increase the security of creditors. In particular, the law did not achieve the expected effects in dealing with the problem of payment discipline, but in particular the question was raised as to the appropriateness of the provisions stipulating that ex-lege shareholders were responsible for the obligations under the official obligation of the deleted company. This constitutes a major intervention in fundamental corporate principles and also in the personal property of the shareholders. Such arrangements for transferring the obligations of deleted companies to the shareholders have fostered the emergence of very controversial and tragic situations. Citizens who, for example, submitted their equity certificates to equity companies where they were as minority shareholders had no impact on their business; after the capital company had been wiped out, they were, as shareholders, solely responsible for the obligations of deleted companies. Similarly, workers who received shares as a reward at the time of retirement later carried the full burden of the deleted company. Thus, thousands of shareholders still have to, on the basis of a legal provision or an irrefutable legal presumption that they have taken responsibility by signing a declaration before the notary, pay for the obligations of a company in which they have performed solely as founders or associates. Some of these people have even ended their lives under the burden of hopelessness. This is a very serious situation, and since it is reasonable to expect the European Court of Human Rights to find a violation of human rights, for example the protection of property, in my opinion and also in the opinion of all those who have signed the general debate, it is necessary to prevent the continuation of damage to the parties against whom legal and enforcement procedures are being conducted. This is to be achieved by means of this proposal for a law in such a way as to suspend the implementation of, in particular, enforcement procedures pending the final decision of that court. In the event that the court finds a violation of the rights of the shareholders, the law will contribute to the reduction of the damage to the injured members. If the said court finds that there has been no infringement, the creditors will continue to execute in order to pay their claims. The very purpose of this law is also to pursue the objective of establishing the situation that was in force in the Slovenian legal order before the entry into force of the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. This will also restore a comparable legal order regarding corporate governance of companies in Slovenia. What is most important is that we reduce the distress of thousands of people who have fallen into very severe difficulties because of such legal arrangements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u105	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance mag. Miranda Groff Ferjančič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u106	Honourable President of the National Assembly; honourable Members and Members! In 1999, the Law on the Financial Operation of Enterprises was adopted in the National Assembly, aimed primarily at improving financial discipline, enhancing the safety of creditors and allowing the removal of non-functional companies from the Court Register without liquidation. The removal of non-active companies from legal traffic required legal certainty, in particular the safety of legal traffic, since it protected creditors and reduced the risks of business. The legal consequence of the deletion was the legal presumption that, by deleting, the shareholders were deemed to have made a declaration to assume the obligations of the deleted company. The proposal for a law on the cessation of proceedings against the shareholders of deleted companies, submitted by Mr Janko Weber, provides for the cessation of all judicial, administrative and enforcement proceedings which have not yet been completed on the date of the application of the bill and in which the creditors of the deleted company claim against the active shareholders of the deleted companies. It is important to point out that, in relation to the issue of deleted companies, the Constitutional Court has ruled in three cases; in two cases, the Constitutional Court has already repealed the provisions of the laws which provided for the cessation or termination of pending proceedings. The final consequences of the regulation contained in the bill would be the same for creditors as had already been foreseen by constitutionally inconsistent arrangements. Having regard to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the proposed suspension of proceedings pending and the interference with existing legal relations would affect the acquired and expected rights of creditors and thus the right to judicial protection and the right to private property. This would also constitute a violation of the principle of the prohibition of the retroactive application of legal acts and the Government does not therefore support the Proposal for a Law on the Cessation of Procedures against the Shareholders of Deleted Companies and considers that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u107	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, in its name mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u108	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for an end to proceedings against the members of the deleted companies. We'll support him for a number of reasons. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the proposed amendment and suspension of proceedings against the members of the deleted companies are only for a temporary manoeuvre until the final decision of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. In view of the change in the fact that the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg has decided to move the matter to the Grand Chamber, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the proposed amendment is correct and for the benefit of all. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are surprised by the Government's view that in the first reading it is immediately rejected, against the proposed changes, because the fact is that in the event of a positive decision by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in Slovenia, there will be major damages. These compensations can also amount to more than €1 billion. The government, by proposing quickly that the law is inappropriate for further consideration, also assumes great responsibility for itself. The fact is that the existing law, which has erased companies without prior liquidation, is a unique one in the European Union. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the existing law, which he announced at the time, was particularly retroactive and that human rights have been violated here, at least in our opinion. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the proposal for this amendment to the law and the suspension of proceedings cannot affect the decision of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and the decision of the Grand Senate; a temporary suspension may also prevent the most tragic events that have taken place in the adoption of this law. It should be pointed out that there has been a type of irregularity, a type of infringement and that we have also witnessed some tragic events due to the adoption of this law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the proposal that has been prepared does not directly interfere with the infringements of either party. However, we are convinced that this manoeuvre, which temporarily suspends enforcement procedures, could be in a positive direction pending the final decision of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. The task of Members and Members is to take care of people; and in this case, I am sure that the proposed amendment of the law and the suspension of procedures is going primarily in this direction, in order to try to stop certain irregularities that have occurred in the past. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we stress that the proposal for a stay of proceedings against the members of the deleted cooperatives constitutes a temporary decision, a decision pending the final decision of the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. We are confident that, regardless of the final decision, we will not interfere with some irregularity or that any harm would be done on the one hand or on the other, by suspending these procedures. However, we are convinced that by adopting the law we can prevent a number of damage that could have occurred during this interim period. We all know that the European Court of Human Rights needs time. We estimate that, even in the opinion of certain experts, between 8 and 12 months until the final decision, we are likely to make the so-called status quo in this interim period and that all these decisions are temporarily frozen. However, the fact is that in the event of a positive decision for the Civil Initiative of Violently Deleted Enterprises and in the event of a decision that the State has acted wrongly and that human rights have been violated and that the intervention in retroactivity has been wrong, one will certainly have to take responsibility for all the damages that will follow. Indemnities, which are estimated to be more than one billion euros, will again be at the burden of taxpayers. Once again, I'm surprised by the government's rejection. The fact is that today this is about the first reading of this law, and it would make sense for Members and Members to accept it; for we must be aware that Members and Members must also work for people at some point.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u109	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, on her behalf Mrs Marinka Levičar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u110	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Respected and respected, well-known! Apparently, there's another resounding story ahead of us that has to do with the erasure. In July 1999, the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Financial Operations Act, which it deleted from the Court Registry because of the inoperative and uncapitalised position of certain companies; and without bankruptcy. It has determined that all the parties are responsible for the settlement of the obligations of such deleted companies. They did not receive any decisions or notices in order to be able to complain. They've run out of legal protection. This has also led to various contentious situations where, for example, citizens have submitted their ownership certificates to these companies and, although as minority shareholders, they have had no impact on their business, they have been responsible for the obligations of the deleted company. Or, for example, when some employees received shares later deleted from the company at the time of retirement, they could have only a few shares, and they had already been cut off and robbed of their pensions or of the property they had. This seems to us in the Desus Group totally insufferable and worthy of condemnation, but also unjust. Although the National Assembly has already discussed this issue twice, both laws have been annulled by the Constitutional Court because it considers that they were incompatible with the Constitution. At the same time, there was a dual situation. Some still have to pay the obligations of deleted companies, while others deleted after 17 November 2011 are no longer due. According to the applicant, there are still thousands of affected shareholders who pay, as a rule, through the enforcement procedures that took place in 1999. The applicant also argues that the large majority of the companies deleted are in debt because these companies were unable to recover the claims that other companies had from them on several occasions due to slow and ineffective justice. Among their debtors are also supposed to be parade horses of the Slovenian economy, such as large construction companies or large traders. Among the so-called active shareholders who were declared debtors by the courts were owners of less than one percent of the shares in companies or even shareholders who sold their shares even a few years before the company was deleted, such as those mentioned above, the holders of certificates and the various such workers who received shares as rewards at the time of retirement or for any other reason, the minimum number of such shares. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the European Court of Human Rights, in the case of Lekić v Slovenije, first decided that the removal of L.E. without prior liquidation was legal and recently decided to refer the matter to the Grand Chamber. The proposed law provides, as we have already heard from the proposer, for a temporary suspension of all proceedings and actions pending in this regard and, as from the date of implementation of this Act, does not allow any claims for compensation on this legal basis to be applied until the decision of the European Court of Human Rights. Since the issue is very complex, Members and Members of our parliamentary group will decide in their own opinion, and the debate that will follow will also have an important impact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u111	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the past, the issue of deleted companies and, in particular, of the problems of their associates, who had become responsible for all their assets, had already been discussed in the National Assembly as a result of the adoption of the Law on the Financial Operation of Companies, which had established the presumption that in all cases they were deleted companies for the shareholders who abused an economic society for their own interests or deliberately abused the economic order. All present and present in any of the previous calls of the National Assembly are also aware of the fact that this has not been the case and that the law that was adopted is markedly flat and unfair at this point. The consequences that we still have today are that more than 10,000 people are indirectly or even directly affected in very different ways, when they have to repay debts that they are not guilty of, are responsible or are in a truly and disproportionate proportion. At the same time, allow me to say that, in the 2008-2011 reference, already the Member of the Social Democrats, Mr Frangež, together with the co-signatures of the Law on Procedures for the Enforcement or Exemption of the Responsibility of Partners for the Obligations of Deleted Economic Companies, wanted these proceedings to be suspended; however, the law which was adopted by the National Assembly at that time was recognised by the Constitutional Court as being unconstitutional in essential elements and was repealed from this point of view. The guilt that has happened and is still happening has remained, and so the Social Democrats believe that the law that is before us and is trying to eliminate these serious injustices or at least restrict them and suspend their enforcement until the final decision is reached is necessary and necessary and supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u113	The word is given by the Left Party, in its name Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u114	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. During 1999, Drnovskov's coalition passed a law on the removal of inactive companies from the register and on the transfer of their debts to owners. This would exclude bankrupt and straw companies from the system in order to increase payment discipline. As many as 92% of deleted companies had no employees, on the other hand, the same companies without employees had more than 70% of the total debt between deleted ones. Since these companies did not have sufficient capital or had no capital at all, it was clear that their assets would not be able to repay their debts. So the purpose of the marriage was not basically wrong. The democratic authorities must enter into private property if this is in the public interest. Most countries are aware of the Institute for the Preservation of Legal Persons, which allows business obligations to be transferred to its owners. This is a way to prevent the operation of straw companies or cough companies used by their owners in order to avoid paying taxes or liabilities to employees. The removal of companies carried out by Drnovskov's Government was an extreme form of disregard for legal personality; however, the reason was that the courts were not able to process so many cases following normal liquidation procedures. Regrettably, however, the removal of companies caused considerable collateral damage. The law did not only affect the rights of active stakeholders, i.e. owners who had a real impact on business operations and are responsible for their operations; it also affected the rights of passive stakeholders, i.e. those who had no influence on business. It is most unfair that the debts of bankrupt companies have also been transferred to workers and pensioners of former social enterprises who have submitted certificates or paid part of their salaries in the form of shares. This group of affected persons was decided in principle by a 2002 Constitutional Court decision prohibiting the transfer of the debt of deleted companies to so-called passive owners. From this Decision it was prohibited to transfer the debt to persons who had no impact on business operations. Another problem was that the criteria for this deletion in 1999 were too general to separate the profiteers who used companies to get rid of the debt from the workers who, by setting up the company, had saved their social distress. It is important to realize that the restoration of capitalism in the 1990s after more than 35 years of full employment in Slovenia brought mass unemployment, especially in former industrial centres such as Maribor. Because of the popular ideology of entrepreneurship at the time, people went into entrepreneurship to save their social distress, but it ended badly for many, with bankruptcy and the destruction of families. By the way, this process did not stop in 1999. Even today, small entrepreneurs are often victims of capitalism. If you visit any pro bono outpatients, you can make sure of that with your own eyes. Most people without health insurance are not foreigners there, but destroyed entrepreneurs and their family members. The Weber Act is already a third attempt to stop proceedings against former owners of deleted companies. Both previous attempts have been annulled by the Constitutional Court, although in similar cases it generally protects the right to private property and to a free economic initiative. It is very likely that the law of Commissioner Veber would fall in court, which also proposes the suspension of proceedings, with the same arguments. Finally, however, it is worth noting that Weber, now a Member, would have a significantly greater impact on the adoption of this law when he was a member of the Government or when he was President of the National Assembly. For a long year, he was in the Social Democrats' Closer Leadership and was aware of the problem, as they had made their own laws on the same issue twice; however, he did not remember the deleted entrepreneurs when he had an impact on it, but only now that he was probably gone and the elections were coming. The left does not decide on the basis of electoral calculations. We will not oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u115	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, on her behalf by Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The Republic of Slovenia adopted the Financial Business Act 1999 which was transposed into the Financial Business Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination in 2007. The aim of the law is basically the administrative and statistical need to remove non-functional and non-capitalised companies from the Court Registry. The indirect objective was also to improve payment discipline and increase the security of creditors. In particular, the law did not achieve the expected effects in addressing the problem of payment discipline. In particular, the question was raised as to the appropriateness of the provisions stipulating that the members of an ex-lege capital company were responsible for the obligations under the official duty of the deleted company, which constituted a major disputed intervention in the fundamental corporate principles. The purpose of the law was, therefore, basically a good one — the simultaneous updating of the register of justice and the harmonisation of companies with the law in force; however, the law is not acceptable at work when the obligations of such deleted companies are the responsibility of the shareholders on the basis of the indisputable legal presumption that they have made a declaration in agreement with the acceptance of such an obligation. The key feature of this arrangement was that active shareholders were actively responsible for the company's obligations in the event that the company was removed from the register without liquidation. Such a procedure has occurred if the company has not made payments through the account for more than 12 months, if it has not submitted an annual report for more than two years and has no business at the address. It is particularly important to mention, as has already been pointed out in the case of the predecessors, that the National Assembly has already discussed this issue twice; that is, in 2007, when it found that it was inappropriate to describe the ex-legislative arrangements for the transfer of the obligations of the deleted company to the shareholders and in this regard adopted the Law amending the Law on the Financial Operation of Enterprises at the meeting on 27 March 2007. It regulated the cessation of all proceedings against the shareholders of deleted companies and provided for the deletion of the contested fourth and fifth paragraphs of Article 27 of the Law on the Financial Operation of Companies, which contained an undeniable presumption that the shareholders had made a declaration prior to the notary of taking over the obligation of the deleted company. Second, in 2011, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Procedures for the Enforcement or Exemption of the Liability of Partners for the Obligations of Deleted Companies, which regulated the procedure for the remission of debts to shareholders who became personally responsible for the obligations of a deleted company under that Act. Both laws were repealed by the Constitutional Court because, in its view, they were in non-compliance with the Constitution, with the exception of the provisions of Article 18 of the Law on procedures for the enforcement or dismissal of the liability of shareholders for the obligations of deleted companies, by which the provisions of Article 6 to 10 of the Law on Financial Transactions, insolvency proceedings and forcible termination relating to the transfer of the obligations of deleted companies to the shareholders were repealed. Since 17. 11. As a result, 2011 companies can be deleted, but without transferring obligations to the shareholders. The Constitutional Court considered that the shareholders whose companies had been erased until the date of the entry into force of the Act on procedures for the enforcement or remission of the liability of shareholders for the obligations of deleted companies must repay the debts of the deleted company until the definitive payment. This creates a double situation. Some have to pay the obligations of a deleted company; others who have been deleted since 17 November 2011 are no longer obliged to pay the obligations of a deleted company. This bill at least temporarily eliminates this discrimination between entrepreneurs. By transferring the obligations of ex-lege deleted companies without a specific procedure, the State has replaced their free will by law, has taken them away from their companies by deleting their companies, has undermined the founding contracts entered into before the authorities of that State, has virtually taken away their work capacity and has placed them on a permanent basis in relation to creditors who are still recovering more than 16 years of old debts with obstetric interest, including more than a thousand percent interest. It also deprived them of the possibility of re-entering society and among the active and creative population of Slovenia. Thousands of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are permanently burdened by these debts until their death. The burden imposed by the State on the work so far by the most creative, entrepreneurial and courageous part of the nation is so great that it is already impossible in its essence. From the register, 17,000 companies were deleted, affecting at least 50,000 people directly or indirectly in the Republic of Slovenia. The debts of their companies, which, contrary to the principles of international corporate law, became theirs overnight, increased by six times or more. The implementation of the Financial Business Act and the Financial Business Act, insolvency and forced termination procedures have interrupted their normal course of life. They became incompetent because of a permanent conflict with the provisions of the Financial Business Act, which led most of them to the aim of a hopeless situation. As a result, he turned into the breakdown of families, the blockade of all means of life, the seizure of all assets, and, above all, the incapacitation of active and creative life, making it impossible for them to service their obligations overnight. Some of these people have also ended their lives under the burden of hopelessness. For all of this we will vote in our conscience by Members and Members of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u117	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr. Janko Weber, as your candidate, you have the floor first.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, chairman. I would like to respond to the views of the Government and some of the parliamentary groups before the discussions that follow. I would like to point out in particular that there is no freedom without property. All that happened when thousands of citizens believed that they would also be able to place their certificates in businesses and thus successfully try to gain part of what they had created all their lives before, and represent their common private property, they all turned against them and brought them into a very bad crisis. This is also a unique case in the world that a marriage solution has so affected the personal property of an individual and ruined his life that many have taken their own lives. When I listen to the Government's position, I'm surprised, because if I leave all this content that I've presented and why we came to this point at all, this law has no financial implications for the state budget. Courts are still burdened in these proceedings they are taking, and courts will also be able to perform other tasks more effectively. However, if the judgment in the European Court of Human Rights for private property intervention succeeds in thousands of people affected, the impact on the state budget may also be one billion. And this law, because it requires that these proceedings, which are pending in the courts, be terminated, will, as a result, contribute to less financial consequences in the event of possible, somehow announced or almost expected outcome in the European Court of Justice, so that all those who have complained to the European Court will also succeed in the action. It is not to be overlooked that around 95% of cases from Slovenia that end up in the European Court of Human Rights are received; therefore, there is something wrong with the functioning of the Slovenian State and understanding domestic law as well as international law. And I hope to say that the European Court does not need to look too deeply at the content of the law; only to see if the law is in line with international law. This fosters the consequences that we have in Slovenia to pay high compensation for virtually all cases of deletions so far. But once again, I'm surprised at the government's opinion, because this law can actually only have positive budgetary implications. For this reason, I would expect the government to support it. I also thank the parliamentary groups that have expressed their support for this law; and I hope that as many Members in the parliamentary groups as possible, who have announced that they will vote in their conscience, will decide to support the law and will be fit for further consideration. I think it would make sense, too, if this support were given, that this law was adopted in this reference to the National Assembly, and that it was also included in one of the possible new extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly. However, I must respond to the statement made by Mr Luka Mesec by the Levica Group. I personally participated in these proceedings very actively in order to prevent these injustices that have occurred, I was also a co-signatory of the law that was then tabled by my colleague Matevž Frangež; and also as President of the National Assembly, I actively participated in solving this issue of deleted companies, also accepting those who helped to make this text actually today in the National Assembly; and I tried to involve myself in preventing such serious consequences as had actually occurred in many in Slovenia for unnecessary reasons. I don't think there will be any offense if I say very personally and directly about Mr Murk, because he's also very hurt, he's often with me, and I was the only one who's actually accepted him from the top officials in the country. He is one of the concrete cases that experience this tragedy of such an inhumane law when you are then affected by private property because of being a member of one company. It surprises me, therefore, that, with such unverified information, what I have done in the National Assembly, an individual parliamentary group, or a very specific group, the Left Party, is allowed such a statement. Although we are ahead of the elections, it is still our duty to work for the benefit of the people and to mitigate those consequences that can be mitigated by this law. That is why we are here – to help and to work for the good of the people; not to work for their harm, whether it is five minutes before the elections or four years before the elections. As long as we have a mandate as Members, we have the opportunity to take such measures as are also enshrined in this law. I hope that, in fact, he will also come to the hearing and adoption of this call by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u119	Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Vice President. We will also support this law in the New Slovenia Group, even though we did not have a position. I fully agree with the position presented here by colleague Mitja Horvat. It grieves me that Members of the Modern Centre Party will vote or, in their conscience, I hope that a large majority will vote in favour of this law. [[…]] I was a craftsman myself, an entrepreneur. Fortunately, I did not deal with any major companies that worked for the country and did not get paid from the country, nor did they pay subcontractors that subcontractors came into such a situation that their company was wiped out and now they suffer. This should not happen in a democratic Slovenia in order to enact such laws. If anyone has read how this law came about, who proposed it, and who was against it at the time. This also happened quickly, under some pretense that the creditors simply erased, that they had no further right to demand their money, often bloodyly earned. And that so long has it been going on and that since 2011 some have no longer to pay because the Constitutional Court has so decided, and the one before that, has the Constitutional Court previously been wrong or not now?Oh, my God! Now we have a case before the European Court of Justice that the Grand Chamber will decide. And if this case is positively resolved for the person who complained, then what?Oh, my God! Will someone answer? Will anyone be responsible for those who have taken their lives for this? How much guilt was there? With this law, we are unique in Europe, and it takes so long for us to be met with intelligence. It is only now that the European Court has taken this matter under consideration that something is wrong here. It makes me sad. When we speak of pursuing the rule of law — which one? In Novi Slovenija we will support this law because it also brings benefits for the country, as has been said. The proposer himself said so. The Court will now have no longer to deal with this until the decision falls in the European Court of Justice. That could be six months. Let's at least save those who are now in the process. At the end of the day, I wonder. Once again, taxpayers will pay a billion for some thoughtless or enforced or for whose benefit the laws passed. Those who have taken billions from our banks will never seem to answer. And all of this is passed on to those, as has already been said, small entrepreneurs who are supposed to be the foundation of the economy with us and are also in other developed countries. This by one law to destroy I myself had some problems with such stupid rules and it took me seven years to get to justice. [[…]] I am very much in favour of this law, once it comes to the truth and that these injustices will be rectified if the European Court so decides. Then I wonder what our Constitutional Court was doing at that time. Are there also influences on the Constitutional Court that such things are not prevented in our home first. Once again, in the New Slovenia Group we will support this law and appeal to the largest parliamentary group to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u121	Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Chairman. It seems to me that there is little struggle left of great interest to discuss this law, but still. I am among those who have also signed a general debate on this bill. Why? As I have also followed professionally at a certain stage and have also decided at a certain stage on the procedures for these laws. I decided in court in proceedings where the enforcement proceedings continued, mainly against the shareholders of the deleted companies. In most cases, it was against companies with limited liability. I signed the proposal for a general debate because I believe that, despite the fact that the Constitutional Court has confirmed the legislator's position that the decision was correct in relation to the Law on the Financial Operation of Companies, but that the matter is still before the European Court of Human Rights, that it is still in the Grand Chamber and that we do not have a final decision on this issue, I have decided to sign this in order to discuss this issue, which is important for individuals involved in proceedings against them. Most of these are executions, I have made my own decisions in these procedures, these are executions that have continued under this law. Let me also say that at least the executive courts do not conduct these proceedings under the heading – enforcement against a member of the deleted companies. Although they have some items to run matters by, once the law was passed in the National Assembly, it was said by law that all these procedures would stop, we physically searched for the register, where is the one who would now continue. We had them in the economics section of the register, and we were looking for where you'd be now. About 3,000, if I recall correctly, are from a large number of executive writings; in those days there were 150 thousand executive writings at the District Court in Maribor. About 3,000 – I remember talking to you at the time – is the number at the District Court in Maribor of these associates of deleted companies. And because I also listened to the stories of these people because I met them, I also decided to sign this proposal for a general discussion on this proposal so that these procedures would not stop, but they would stop. The Enforcement and Insurance Act also has specific rules that can be applied when enforcement is terminated; the creditor is not harmed by the termination of enforcement. This means that enforcement will continue under the same conditions after the reasons for termination have been removed. However, there is a large number of persons involved in these proceedings, and I think that at least a general debate should be held on whether these procedures should be discontinued. It is important to take into account and consider the arguments put forward by the Government, and it is therefore a general debate to discuss, reflect on, and ultimately vote on these issues as we think best and that it is right. What was the reason in 1999 when the Financial Business Act was adopted? This was the first time that we introduced rules on the liability of responsible persons in companies, since we also introduced the Company Act for a while before that. At the transition from socialism, we learned from the socialist system of businesses within economic societies. Many companies have been set up, in particular limited liability companies. This was somehow a hit, but it is also a necessity that normal business can be established; many companies have also been set up. Independent entrepreneurs have also worked, but a limited liability company is somehow the one that one person can set up and has relatively easier rules for setting up than a share society. Many were established and many were no longer operating, which were only recorded in the Court Registry at the time, because the Business Register of the Republic of Slovenia had not yet been established; and there was a problem. I understand the legislator that there was a problem back then that we had a lot of dead companies that didn't even accept mail, they didn't do business at all. They may have had debts, mostly debts or not. They didn't do business. We also know the companies that they established, for example, there were some, two spouses or partners. There were many of these companies in which one way to say, to pour pure wine, to clean up the register, that it was known that even participants in legal traffic and business traffic knew which company was still operating and that, in the end, we also cleaned up the economic system of what was no longer working and only seemed to exist; in fact, it was indebted or not functioning. One of the solutions to the company's financial regulation was that the law specifically laid down the conditions for companies to be deleted on official duty, namely companies that did not function. The shareholders or shareholders could also, under the Company Act, propose the removal of the company by themselves, in order to make a declaration that all the obligations of the company have been settled. This is under the Company Act. And then the court register would have allowed them to delete it, but otherwise not. And since the system had to be cleaned in some way, this law stipulated that the court, on an official basis, if there were certain conditions, if the company did not operate for a period of time, if it did not submit a report, there were conditions under which the procedure of official duty to delete a company — a limited company or a limited liability company could have been initiated in a court register. And then, if the procedure was completed, where the party was either a shareholder, a shareholder, including the creditor, had the opportunity to submit an objection when it received the decision to initiate the liquidation procedure, and to demonstrate that no reasons had been given for the removal of the company, i.e. a limited liability company or a limited company. Why some shareholders or shareholders have not taken advantage of this option is one question. The second question is again how a shareholder of an economic company or a shareholder could even prove the existence of these reasons. It is very difficult for a member – later we came in the next marriage to an active partner who was then committed, but I will talk about it later – whether he even had the opportunity to prove that the burden of proof was on him, on the shareholder. Imagine that you are a shareholder of a large shareholding company and that it is erased, and now you have to prove that there are no reasons for the removal of a shareholding company. However, even if you are a member of a limited liability company, it is very possible that you do not have access to data on whether or not the company actually worked and that there were in fact no reasons to delete. But this possibility was in theory the associates and shareholders of the deleted companies had. If they did not use it, there were various reasons why someone might not have received mail from the registrar because the address had been changed or anything. I've heard a lot about this, that one of these mails, they didn't even get a decision to delete it. Again, there are various reasons why the courts are very busy when it is incumbent on someone to communicate a revised address, even if the company is a member of an economic company, whether it is obliged as a shareholder to change it, or whether they can even inform it at the right address. There are many questions that have been raised, whether anyone has had the opportunity to demonstrate that there are no grounds for deletion in the opposition proceedings after the official duty. If this procedure was terminated, the court, on an official basis, deleted the economic company from the Registry, which meant its end, its death, as always, means an deletion from the Registry of Justice. Then the law introduced the presumption that these shareholders or shareholders, if deleted, had taken over — as was the case in Article 394 of the Company Act in force at the time, we now have the ZGD-1, which does not have the same Article 394 — the obligation of this company to be personally responsible for the company's obligations. This, respected colleagues and colleagues, meant that a shareholder or a member of a capital company, when we talk about a capital company We also hand it over to students, the basic purpose of a capital company, which is also the name of a capital company, is to establish it or participate in its capital because you do not want to take the risk on yourself with your own property, but you want to spend some of the assets on the capital of a particular company. [[…]] If that company goes down, you lose that capital that you invested in a share company, i.e. a share or share in a limited liability company, a share of the shareholder. But you don't answer with your own property; if you want to answer with your own property, you open up espa, you're an independent entrepreneur, you're not a capital company, you don't need an establishment capital, but then you answer with your own property. When we adopted the Company Finance Act and this procedure whereby the court could have deleted the capital company by virtue of an official duty, by one procedure, and we have established the possibility that, if this capital company were deleted, the liability would have been transferred from the capital company to a person who was a shareholder or a member, we have somehow exceeded the rule that you did not respond with your personal property to the capital company's obligations. All of a sudden, we took responsibility for the company's obligations, which were erased — of course under certain conditions, that is all true — to the shareholders and then, most of the time, in the enforcement proceedings, the procedures against the shareholders began massively. There was no exception in the Company Finance Act at that time to allow an objection by which a former shareholder or shareholder could object that he had no opportunity to influence the company's business, no opportunity to object or any way. This is what we are after these collapses, sagas, and amending the Financial Business Act, when we passed the Financial Business and Insolvent Management Act, which has a very long name for ZFPPIPP, I can never repeat the whole title. But in the new bankruptcy law, in which we regulated the responsibility of the members of the board, the responsibility of the supervisory board, the management of the company, we also arranged that someone who was not an active partner, someone who had no chance of having a major impact on the company's business, at least objected to the proceedings against him. He may have objected, for example in the execution we have one instrument – an objection after the expiry of the deadline. Once enforcement is under way against you, it's very difficult to argue and fight against the system. It is true, we or this are not quite good, then it has developed in judicial practice whether this decision on enforcement against a member must now be legally binding or not; or how it is. [[…]] I remember this law well, and then in the early stages we also hunted ourselves in practice. Suddenly, people got their conclusions at home, after some time when this company was wiped out, and this was published in the Official Journal — the court allows enforcement against you, namely, all your assets; that is, the way the FFPPod allowed. And then there was a drama, a really personal drama of people who, on the basis of the material basis of the corporate financial regulation, had no opportunity to prove, to lodge any objection, even after the deadline. Against this decision on the continuation of enforcement against a member or a shareholder, the court said: Were you a member? Yeah. Were you a shareholder? Yeah. Then we have no basis to agree with your objection and have refused to object to the decision to proceed with the enforcement of the party. And once this enforcement decision is made, it goes to property, to wages, to houses, to land, to all that you have, to stock and to pensions. Time was running out, it wasn't happening at a flash speed, just like the judicial system is now in operation. Implementation is now operating significantly faster than it did in 2005, 2006, 2007, because there have been a significant number of issues; they are now substantially cleared. That was a really big problem. Then we remembered that the ZFPPIPP could object to an active shareholder, and even in the Enforcement Act we have arranged this possibility of objecting and in what way it should also be served to the debtors. Believe me, the whole colloba, the whole drama took place at a number of levels in which we, including the courts, used the law to hunt and determine what to do; while the execution continued on the property of these people who were once shareholders or shareholders of capital companies and bought or gave these shares because they thought they would never be responsible for the company's obligations. I can now agree that this is a legal issue that is decided at the end of the day by the court. In our case, the Constitutional Court has decided, given it to the legislator, but the matter is still before the European Court of Human Rights. If we owe something to these people who are involved in these proceedings, it is to hold a general debate and discuss whether it is necessary to wait until the European Court of Human Rights, which does not so decide in the Grand Chamber, decides whether Slovenia has intervened here in the property rights of all those who have submitted an application to the European Court of Human Rights. And that is why I also signed this proposal for a general debate, because I think it is really necessary to discuss this. However, the claims that are lodged and may be made are calculated and measurable with ease. And if the European Court of Human Rights – I do not prejudge – does not say that it will decide one way or another – it will favour those who have lodged a complaint with the European Court of Human Rights if it says that Slovenia has violated their rights, this amount, which the State of Slovenia owes to those complainants, will be very easily calculated as regards material damage. We're not talking about immaterial damage. They're gonna have to prove it. The material damage, the amounts recovered and the late legal interest on the liabilities are fairly comprehensive and calculated; perhaps not with the ease of doing so, but can be relatively quickly reached. That is why I think we can consider just putting an end to these proceedings until the judgement of the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights is reached. Otherwise, this condition, this article 2 of the proposed law is somehow not, I do not think that we can write legislation in this way to give a conditional right if the court finds out. If anyone knows such a provision, let him tell me, but good, it's only in there. It should really be discussed, perhaps the Legal and Legislative Service would say something about it, but it is essential that we allow this opportunity to discuss whether these procedures should be discontinued until the European Court of Human Rights decides. There are many legal questions that I am not sure we have given them the right answers in our legal system. I'm not saying who's right or wrong. The European Court of Human Rights said that, even in the case of enforcement, this interference in property for a small amount, a disproportionate intervention, when we all insisted and also the Constitutional Court said that the Slovenian courts were right, and I was personally convinced that Slovenia had not violated the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights; the European Court of Human Rights said that it was. And if it is, it's also the right thing to do. That is why I think that this debate should be held, that we should consider stopping these procedures, waiting. I do not think it will be long before the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights decides. Then we will see if we continue the procedures, do not continue them, and if anything else needs to be changed in the current ZFPIPPP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u123	Mr. Luka Moon has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u124	Thank you very much and thank you very much! I owe Mr Janko Webr some clarification to my findings in the position of the Group of Members, which I read earlier and in which I said that Janko Weber had sufficient opportunities in his long political career to influence the matter. I'm going to base that statement. The law was passed in 1999, and Janko Weber was a member of the National Assembly in 1999. Before the adoption of this law, the Legislative and Legal Service has made clear the principle of liability under the Act on Economic Companies and the breach of this principle that an individual, the owner of the company, is now liable under this law also with all its assets. This was clearly recorded and also pointed out that they believe that this general principle should be further examined, since capital companies are responsible for their obligations with all their assets rather than with the property of the owners. This was then pointed out and Janko Weber was aware of this warning; he did not vote against this proposal. The proposal was adopted by 53 votes to none. Janka Vebra at the vote either wasn't or pulled the card from the voting device. Mr Weber, you mentioned earlier the signatures of the Members, the group of Matevž Frangež, who tried to correct these injustices. I have sought these signatures and you are not on this list of Members. I can list who is written there: Matevž Frangež, Vili Rezman, Luka Juri, Andrej Vizjak, Franz Žnidaršič, Bogdan Čepič, Alojz (Lojze) Posedel, Bogdan Barovič, Alan Bukovnik, Matjaž Han, Villa Trophynik and Dejan Levanič. These were signed, but you weren't there. This law of this group fell in 2012 at the Constitutional Court. In 2013, Mr Janko Weber, you became President of the National Assembly. In 2015 you became a member of the government as Minister of Defence. Today we are 2018. Your political history of dealing with this law has been going on since 1999, and you have decided to correct the injustices almost two months before the 2018 State Elections. From here on out, it may not be so much a serious attempt to correct the injustices that were committed at the time as an attempt to save your political career.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u125	Janko Weber, you have the floor as representative of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u126	I'll explain it one more time very clearly. I also made it clear as a proposal for today's law that at that time the law also had positive objectives and important measures to address financial non-discipline and also improve the situation of companies. These were also the reasons why, at the time, the representatives of the Government persuaded Members to support this law. The implementation of the law has shown, of course, that the burdens incurred by the parties are so severe that they go beyond not only the Company Act but also the constitutionally guaranteed rights to personal property; therefore, I have been actively involved all the time in solving this problem. Once again, if someone in the form of a government convinces you in the initial phase of 1999, that this law is all right, and if you find later that there is nothing wrong with this law, I think that everyone has the moral right to react and remedy this injustice. That's what I've been doing all along, and I'm doing it right now. I would like to see people today who need to be helped mitigate these consequences; not politicisation. I have not tabled this law to be politicised here today, but to actively involve the National Assembly in this process and to make a decision that will be for the benefit of the people. That's what I've been doing all along. When I realized that it was necessary to help because of the injustice, I did. That's what I'm doing right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u127	Mr. Luka Moon has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u128	Mr. Janko Weber, it took you 19 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u129	Dr. Mitja Horvat, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for the floor. I must say that not only am I extremely disappointed, but in fact, I cannot find the right words to describe this attack on honourable Member Janko Vebra, who was so kind that he was ready to present our proposal on our behalf as the first-signed. I am also aware of the activities of the honourable Member of the Vebra, who, apparently, did not know what his activities were. Therefore, I find it extremely inappropriate and, above all, I find it a pity. Today we had a nice opportunity, and we have also proposed that in the general debate we talk about arguments for or against such a law. Such a failure, a shift of attention to a personal level is somehow inappropriate and would otherwise have come with a procedural one, but I hoped to the end that you would respond in this regard as President. Nevertheless, I had to express myself because most of the debate was on this issue, so I will now focus on the bill and also support the distinguished colleague from the Modern Centre Party Group, who has a lot of experience on this issue, and has also beautifully illustrated the depth of the situation and the individual cases of how this happened — actually for many, too many overnights, without every possibility of participating in the proceedings. And if that is true, I have no reason not to believe the words that civil society representatives dealing with this issue have also presented to the Commission on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, for which I would like once again to thank the distinguished President of Mrs Eva Irgle for having convened this meeting and that we have been able to see the depth of this problem firsthand from all the representatives of the actors. Perhaps the debate so far has not been sufficiently clear, so it should be noted that these people became debtors overnight, they became debtors overnight, because some of the sounding names did not meet their obligations. From the material we received at the National Assembly on 30 April 2015, it turns out that these are names such as SCT, Vegrad, Mercury, Primorje; most likely we do not have to lose words like epilogues and epilogues in this regard. Not to go into detail, because the details of the procedures themselves were well presented by colleague Murgel of our delegation. It is a matter of feeling right and what is wrong; it is that these people have finally started to appear in public with their case, have highlighted themselves and have also confessed their sad stories that have happened in this area. As we said in the opening position, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre understands the good purpose of the law – payment discipline; but whether this law has brought about an improvement in the situation in payment discipline for previously appointed economic operators, parade horses, rewardrs and so on. It is a question of where we need to look at ourselves and consider what we have to do; not with obvious reasons, why it has not happened all these years, and why someone has not done something in person. Today, we have this proposal before us, when we can do something, today something has highlighted us by giving us signatures for this bill and also for this general discussion; for a simple reason to get as many arguments as possible and to take a socially responsible decision. I'm sorry, and I have to say here, as has been the case for a few days now, there are no Members. Is the darkness not suitable for discussion, or is the darkness one that does not draw us to the point of talking about it for daily political reasons? Those questions will be answered by anyone who has been invited to the meeting today alone. If we look at some of the reasons, the arguments that make them hurt. Once again, at least 30,000 entrepreneurs have been excluded from the economic processes. Many have their mouths full of concern for small and medium-sized enterprises. Today, with this bill, we have a great opportunity to restore with a small step some trust to people who want to engage in entrepreneurship so that they will not be left to the mercy and mercy of the strong, to have an environment in which they can carry out their basic, constitutionally guaranteed right – freedom of entrepreneurial initiative in accordance with the Constitution. How do I get these people back? And we did not particularly warn the grandchildren about how to restore faith and hope to their family members, their children, today that the rule of law is the one that will protect them; that when they carry out their activities in accordance with the constitutional order, it will also safeguard them. I myself recall the debate from the time when it came to the question of what is happening to our entrepreneurs, Is this a respectable action, an activity in society; is there some relationship that those who have been affected in the matter also called criminalisation of entrepreneurship? This is for my taste one fundamental issue that we must deal with and decide how we will proceed. I understand that there may have been individuals in this crowd who may have abused the existing system; but today, we are not talking about these cases with this law. We are here so that five before twelve we can do something on our own without waiting for one or another result of the great Senate of the European Court of Human Rights. The opportunity offered is before you, and I hope that we will be able to achieve so much power, so much self-criticism, so much conscience that we will at least relieve these people at this moment the burden they bear due to the recent events, as we have found, of the nineteen years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u131	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer of the bill. First of all, she is the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag. Miranda Groff Ferjančič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to point out that the Government does not oppose solutions, but we note that these solutions must also take into account the decisions of the Constitutional Court which have already discussed these matters. I would therefore like to point out the 2012 decision when the Constitutional Court found that the legislator could not refer to the alleged non-constitutionality of the regulation which was the subject of the Constitutional Court's judgment and this non-conformity was not established. We have heard a lot today about the waiting for a decision by the European Court of Human Rights, but it must be said that the Court has already decided in the first instance. And I would like to point out that paragraph 91 of their decision, when they point out that "the provisions in their entirety provided a clear and comprehensive framework of legislation aimed at strengthening the legal safety of market participants and the protection of creditors". It can be found that in this particular case, which has already been assessed in the first instance, the Court unanimously found that Article 1 of Protocol 1 was not breached; the measure to delete the company without prior liquidation and the transfer of liability for the company’s debts to active shareholders was legal and legitimate in the Court’s view. The final decision on the fate of the law is in the hands of you Members. Finally, I would like to point out that the final consequences of the regulation contained in the draft law are likely to be the same for creditors as already envisaged by the constitutionally inconsistent regulation in the Financial Business Act, Novel B, and the proposal for a law on procedures for the enforcement or dismissal of the liability of shareholders for the obligations of deleted companies. The proposed suspension of the proceedings pending and the interference with existing legal relations would prejudice the acquired and expected rights of creditors and thus the right to judicial protection and the right to private property, taking into account the provisions already cited in 2012 and the decision of the Constitutional Court 117/07. This regime would also constitute a violation of the principle of the prohibition of retroactive regulation of legal acts and of the principles of trust in law. Once again, the Government does not oppose solutions, but we warn or suggest that the solutions proposed are consistent with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u133	Mr Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u134	Thank you for saying that again. On this occasion, I would like to make it very clear that the law speaks of the peace of procedure in Slovenia until the European Court of Human Rights is closed. This certainly does not violate any decision, including the Constitutional Court. For this law also speaks very clearly, if the European Court of Human Rights rejects complaints, all these proceedings continue. However, if it is in favour of the complainants, this law will have positive consequences because the cost of handling all these cases will be significantly lower. However, what is very important is that to all those thousands of people involved in these procedures, at least a little time will be drained until the European Court of Human Rights is decided; and this is the most important thing for me. With all due respect for the Constitutional Court's decision, which has already rejected some similar cases — not similar cases — the fact that many cases in the European Court of Justice fall due to the fact that this dimension is not taken into account, that Slovenia is a social state, legal and social. This aspect of the social state often encourages the European Court of Human Rights to decide differently than the Constitutional Court in Slovenia. If we looked at a whole series of decisions by the European Court of Justice, we would find that this is the case and that we have very sad statistics when deciding on social rights in Slovenia in the Constitutional Court. I believe that this law is very important, in particular to burden people at this moment, and consequently the courts; and it could also have a favourable financial impact if the European Court decides in favour of the defendants. And that's what we have to have all the time in front of our eyes to mitigate these consequences that people have all the time. Not the institution – people!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u135	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I find that no, so I am concluding the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, decide in half an hour in the framework of the vote. I hereby end the 23rd agenda item and the 39th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 2.30 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u136	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 2, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 23, 13, 26, 17 and 18 items of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Act; following a reduced procedure We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 21. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 5. Dr Matthew Tashner Vatovec has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Levica Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u137	Thank you very much, President. We will support this amendment of ours in the left hand side. Why? The law provides for this Article 5 to establish a special status for agricultural workers, a special status that predominates this area. This status introduces that farms could hire temporary holiday workers for 120 days per year, representing approximately half of all working days per year. A provision that goes clearly beyond the provisions of the Labour Relations Act is a provision constituting a circuit from the U.S. The Labour Relations Act already allows certain industries, which are more seasonally intensive, to hire workers according to the U.S.R. The fact that there is now a new category of penal workers in the law, and we are talking about the Agriculture Act, is something that should be totally unacceptable because there are already legal grounds for this. This will mean that we agree that certain sectors are yet to be additionally and cost-effectively exaggerated. This is the same as we would say that we need cheap labour to carry out basic tasks; in agriculture, we will end up doing so; at the same time, this is a dangerous precedent. Who assures us that there will not be another chamber room next time or some innkeepers say - Why do we not have in our law a provision that would allow us to hire workers in this way? This is an additional social dumping, it is an additional pre-arrangement of the labour market in this country and we therefore propose in Levica that this provision be simply deleted. Here we appeal to the understanding of all, in particular the representatives of those authorities covering these areas, namely the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Agriculture. It is a minister from the quotas of the Social Democrats, who in this way simply deletes certain strict provisions that should apply in general, so that the work in this country would not be prefigured. What they do is quite the opposite; at each point, they can flexibilize the work and bring people into a very uneven and even subordinate position.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u138	An explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is given by Mrs Ljudmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u139	We will not support the amendment of the Left in New Slovenia. It's pointless here to talk about the festive work. This is because farmers will hire a workforce when they need it, when fruit is to be removed, or certain tasks are to be carried out in agriculture. We can't say that farmers have to hire someone for a year if they have to work at a certain time. Each profession has its own requirements. This solution to be able to hire workers when they need them is right, so we are against this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u140	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. The explanation of the vote in its own name is given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u141	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! I will, of course, support the amendment. I will support it, for the first time, because working relations are regulated in the labour law, not in the agriculture law, the construction law, the hospitality law and I don't know what else. The Labour Relations Act is a labour relations regulator. Those who objected during the debate have somehow tried to show that there is only one form of work in Slovenia. This is a regular job for a whole year or an indefinite period of time, and beyond that there is nothing. In fact, we have a whole range of opportunities for occasional, temporary and similar works; there is no need to introduce bypass regulation of labour law and labour rights in this way with a new criminal institute. And that's why we prepared this amendment in Levica. I already pointed out in the debate that if an opposition party had brought such a measure to the National Assembly, it would not have had a discussion on the home committee. We would say that regulation is not systemic because it is necessary to regulate it in a system law, we would say that the law is not suitable for further consideration; and the debate would be closed. But the government has little different vats for its proposals than for opposition proposals; it is now possible for Members to assess how credible this proposal the government has made before us.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u142	We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 53. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 48 votes in favour and 6 votes in favour. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 2 of the agenda. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Seed Material of Agricultural Plants; following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 49 votes in favour and none in favour. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been passed.I conclude the fourth item of the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Veterinary Criteria for Compliance; following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 59 votes in favour and none in favour. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 5 of the agenda. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Veterinary Act; following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 61 votes against, none against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been passed.I conclude the 6th item of the agenda. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Awards of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of education; following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 64 votes in favour and none in favour. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 8 of the agenda. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Cooperation in Criminal Matters with the Member States of the European Union; following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 1. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 9 of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Cessation of Procedures against Associates of Deleted Companies. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for the termination of proceedings against the shareholders of the deleted companies is suitable for further consideration. What explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u143	Dr. Milan Brglez has an explanation in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I would certainly like to say that I will support the marriage because it is the minimum that can actually be done. I think this is also what can be done in the Slovenian legal order. Fortunately, we are also part of some other legal order, in particular the legal order of the Council of Europe, when such injustices cannot be definitively resolved within our legal order. At the same time, I would like to thank Ambassador Janko Webro, former President of the National Assembly, for knowing that he has faced this issue. I really thank him for making this marriage at all, and I think it's right for me to thank him. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u145	Any other wishes? I will wait for the President to launch the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u146	We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 2. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the National Assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as its parent labour. I hereby conclude the 23rd item of the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 13th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Judicial Experts, Valuers and Court Interpreters; under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 12. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude the 13th item of the agenda. We continue with the 26th paragraph of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 631 of the Bond Code. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, which reads as follows: The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 631 of the Bond Code shall be adopted. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are very well aware of the problems and all the injustices that have been committed to all subcontractors who have not received any payment for their good work. Many craftsmen, many small companies, have actually failed because of the consequences of the unpaid payments for their work, are no longer among us today; many of them, with their profits and other businesses, are covering this great manna, which has happened to them unjustly. In view of the fact that this injustice is at least partially rectified or that it is only possible to make payments in part, we have proposed an authentic interpretation of Article 631 of the Bond Code, since we are aware that direct payments to subcontractors in bond law have not been made at all. If we lived in a normal, honest country and if all contractors paid their subcontractors, we wouldn't need it at all. However, payments to subcontractors should also be implemented in the Bond Code. For this reason, we have proposed this authentic explanation that at least part of the subcontractors can make this payment at all. We propose that this authentic explanation be supported and that we correct in at least one part the injustices that have been committed to these operators.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-22-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u148	We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 39 votes in favour and 20 votes in favour. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the decision has been taken; therefore, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a text of an authentic interpretation. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present and 39 votes against 19. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the text of the authentic interpretation has been adopted. I hereby conclude the 26th item of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Resolution of the Housing Problem of Young People. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the resolution of the housing problem of young people is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 27 votes in favour and 31 votes in favour. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision; therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill is closed. This concludes item 17 of the agenda. We continue with the 18th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a law on how to build infrastructure and the terms of the concession for exploiting the energy potential of the Central Sava. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on how to build the infrastructure and the terms of the concession to exploit the energy potential of the Central Save is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 26 votes in favour and 29 votes in favour. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision; therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill is closed. This concludes the 18th item of the agenda. I am adjourning the 39th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. I inform you that in 15 minutes, the 67th urgent meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government and the 65th urgent meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy will begin in the large lounge.
