ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 16th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Jelka Godec, Tomaž Lisec, Dr. Matej Tržan Vatovec, Dr. Franz Runczek, Natasha Sukich, Iva Dimic, mag. Matthew Tonin, Jernej Vrtovec from 18:00 onwards, Ferenc Horváth and Jan Mahnic. Representatives of the Government are invited to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 16th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Tuesday 4 December 2018 by reference to the sitting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to extend the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, and we have all voted in favour of this agenda. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I therefore note that the agenda of the 16th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Peace and Disability Act, first defence. The draft law was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. With regard to this bill, the group of 24 Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Carmen Furman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Dear guests, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Even after the elections, we did not forget the plight of the pensioners in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. We have tabled in the parliamentary procedure a proposal for a new Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance, proposing to raise the rate of delivery and coordinate pensions according to economic growth, raise the minimum pension for old age and invalidity pensions, and systemic arrangements for the annual allowance at two different levels, which will not depend on the adoption of the law on the implementation of budgets every time. With the proposed law, we are saving the plight of pensioners who have been forgotten by the government in recent years. The fact is that the Slovenian pension system has been facing problems for many years, the consequences of which are the worst for pensioners. Thus today, a large proportion of pensioners are receiving a pension that is below the poverty threshold and their social status is deteriorating year after year, irrespective of the fact that we have sustained economic growth for several years in the country. During the period when the government was led by the Slovenian Democratic Party and we had economic growth, the pensioners also felt it in their pockets. This is also our commitment forward, so we have prepared in the party proposals for amendments to the legislation in force to improve the financial and social status of pensioners. According to the proposal, today's novelties would gradually increase the pension rate for all pensioners who will retire and who have a 40-year full-time percentage below 63%. The proposed regular harmonisation of pensions represents an additional legal guardian, namely that the harmonisation already regulated by the law cannot be less than 1% in the case of economic growth in the previous year by more than 3% or less than 1.5% in the case of economic growth in the previous year by more than 4% and less than 2% in the case of economic growth in the previous year by more than 5%. We propose the adoption of a permanent annual supplement at two levels. The amount of 80 % of the minimum pension for full pension would be paid as an annual allowance to all pensioners who receive a lower pension, such as the minimum pension for full pension. However, the amount of 50 % of the minimum pension for the full pension would be paid as an annual allowance to those pensioners who receive a higher pension, as is the lowest pension for the full pension period. Such an arrangement removes uncertainty, as pensioners will thus know exactly what kind of supplement they can expect, and this will not be the subject of a political measure of power every year. However, as we cannot today pass even beyond the fact that many pensioners receive a lower pension than the new minimum monthly amount fixed as that minimum for one person's survival, the amendment under consideration proposes that the minimum age or invalidity pension be increased to the level of this minimum personal income. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that pensioners represent an important part of our society. In view of all your pre-election statements, respected colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, and given the content of the coalition agreement you have signed, the solutions proposed today should also benefit your support or at least a sufficient majority for their adoption. The fact is that pensioners do not need some extraordinary strategies, various white books. But they need a decent pension to pay their bills and food for survival. And it is right that today, when you make your decision, you are over-party and political interests that we have in mind, in particular, the stories of people who unfortunately live on the brink of survival after years of hard and honest work and payment of contributions. We are responsible for these people, and it is up to all of us who are here in the service of men to find the right solutions. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, when adopting the proposed amendments to the legislation under consideration today, we ask for your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Tiln Bozic, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for an introductory presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u4	Mr President, honourable Members, thank you for your floor. The Government has examined the indications and justifications of the proposal of the novel ZPIZ-2H submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Krivec. The Government does not support the content of the bill but does not support the objectives pursued by the law. The solutions that will address this issue will be prepared by the Government and included in future changes to pension legislation in a more comprehensive and equitable way, with prior harmonisation within the coalition and the social partners. You can expect this in the first half of next year. The government, in its opinion, considers that the solutions proposed are not appropriate, as they do not take into account the basic principles of pension and disability insurance and establish non-systemic solutions. The increase of the dose percentage is inadequate and non-stimulative only in the event of retirement of 40 years of retirement. In view of the disproportionate increase in the valuation of 40 years of pension good, by up to 4%, while over 15 years of age would be valued at 1.25%, and only the social situation of those individuals who retire from 40 years of retirement would improve, i.e. the category that is, lastly, protected by the institution of the guaranteed pension amount at the current rate of EUR 516. For all other categories that may have been working only for a short period of 39 years, such a proposal may not bring an improvement. The proposal to raise the lowest pension amounting to EUR 392,75 does not take into account the fundamental principle of the pension system that the pension depends on the retirement age achieved. It also unwarrantedly destroys the relationship between pension recipients, since it equals insured persons who have retired at the age of 15 and insured persons who have completed 32 years of retirement. The proposed solution is therefore non-stimulating from the point of view of further work and, from the point of view of the insured who have worked for a longer period, unfair, since the length of payment of the contributions in their case would not have been reflected in the amount of the pension. The pension scheme introduces a balance sheet that is not suitable and not typical for this system, especially to that extent. The arrangements that ZPIZ-2 would also determine the amount of the annual allowance in our opinion are not appropriate. The amount of the annual allowance has never been legally determined but has been paid and the amount has always been linked to the financial capacity either to the pension and disability insurance institution or to the state budget. The Government considers that the current arrangements for determining the height of the annual additive are more appropriate than the fixed determination of the amount in the PSIZ-2. The definition of multiple classes may take greater account of the social situation of individuals, thus also following more closely the current purpose pursued by this right in the last period. With regard to the proposal to reconcile pensions with economic growth, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the current regime is more appropriate and that economic growth is already taken into account indirectly in the harmonisation of pensions through a formula which also provides for coordination depending on wage growth. Finally, the government notes that the proposal for a law does not contain an appropriate assessment of the financial implications, but in the light of the solutions proposed for the state budget, there will be no doubt. As already stated in the introduction, the Government of the proposal, which is currently ahead of you, does not support it. For further explanations, as well as my colleagues, I am available below. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, for which Marijan Pojbič is responsible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u6	Your Honor! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which we have tabled in the parliamentary procedure. Over and over again, we listen to the debates of all parliamentary groups on how to help the most vulnerable groups in our country, which certainly includes a large number of pensioners living on the edge or below the poverty threshold. But when the law comes to our parliamentary bench, with which we want to improve this situation, many self-proclaimed fighters for the social state happen to forget the words and the promises they made before the elections. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of the necessary changes in this area, as well as the promises made before the elections, and we have also tabled this law. Today it will again be revealed who is speaking one and the work of the other, whose political groups really want the pensioners on the social side of our society to help and not only to seek their votes before the elections. In particular, I have in mind Alenka Bratusek, SD and Desus. The proposal, which is not political before you, does not come before you or during an election campaign and is one of the steps towards the realization of our programme, a programme supported by the most electorate and electorate in the elections six months ago. That is why it has so much more weight and deserves concrete consideration. Given that virtually all the parties elected to the National Assembly in their electoral programmes or pre-election declarations have committed themselves to doing everything possible to improve the financial situation of the poorest pensioners and pensioners, we expect uniform support for the proposal. Thus, in the coalition contract for the mandate of 2018-2022, a measure specifically and specifically listed under the heading Prevention of poverty among pension recipients, page 9, where the current coalition undertakes to gradually raise the minimum pension for the full pension period beyond the poverty threshold, currently EUR 613, taking into account the proportionality of the contributions paid in accordance with the public financial capabilities, to gradually determine the 40-year retirement rate by a minimum of 63 % with effect in January 2019. It also defines the determination of an annual allowance at two different levels, namely 80 % of the lowest full pension pension for those who receive a lower pension than the lowest full pension pension. The implementation of the measure is foreseen as from 1 January 2019. The minimum pension for the full pension period is currently at least EUR 500. However, it should be borne in mind that a number of beneficiaries receive even lower pensions than a fixed basic amount of minimum personal income, which is newly fixed at 392.75 euros and, in the view of the coalition parties, represents the minimum monthly amount needed for survival. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we would like to stress in particular that the pension is not a social adjustment, but a well-deserved money paid by pensioners to the pension fund. The aim of the law is to improve the situation of the most socially vulnerable pensioners with solutions, which also benefit from their support in the light of statements made by parliamentary parties and coalitions. The bill proposes that the minimum age or invalidity pension be increased to the minimum personal income level, i.e. 392,75 euros. However, the other two measures, which are expected to be implemented under the Coalition Treaty as early as January 2019, are a gradual increase in the full-time dosing percentage to at least 63 % and the two-point legalisation of the permanent pension allowance. A gradual increase of the dose percentage is proposed in this law in order to avoid a real fall in pensions. However, the regulation of the annual pension allowance is in the sectoral law because it is necessary, since the current law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019 does not provide for an annual pension allowance in 2019. This follows the following principles: the principle of the social state, the insurance principle, the principle of social security and the principle of equality. Therefore, I call upon all Members and Members of this Assembly to decide, regardless of political affiliation, whether coalition or opposition, that people who are in such difficult times of life, when they simply do not know how to survive from month to month, when their hands shake at every cent, when they do not hope to smoke too many trees a day, regardless of the heat in their living environment, when they cannot dream of Christmas holidays, New Year's holidays, when they can afford two liters of milk per week, not to mention the amount of bread at all when they do not know how to pay for electricity, water and could even mention it. And such pressures and situations are very great in our Slovenia, so we must all work together in particular so that these pensioners can finally live with dignity. Humanity tells us that we must stand together and put an end to the situation. This law is a good way to solve the problems of the most vulnerable groups of pensioners, who are not the only group of pensioners, but are certainly the largest and most exposed. I believe we can do this and we want to. When we vote on this proposal today, it will be clear whether we are here to help people, or whether we are sitting here solely for personal benefit. With the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will prove that we care about people or pensioners who really need our help. We will be happy to support the bill we have tabled in the parliamentary procedure because we are aware that we have been sent from people to people. Therefore, fellow Members, I ask you to support the law in the first reading in such a way that we can work together to create solutions that will solve the hardship and suffering of a number of pensioners and pensioners. If you believe that the law could also be improved, we are open to your proposals in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc, to Nina Maurovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group has introduced a new law on pension and disability insurance into the legislative process. The proposal follows the objectives and solutions discussed in the agreement signed between the coalition parties. In doing so, we might first think that the only concern of Members and Members of the SDS is the social situation of pensioners in the Republic of Slovenia, that they are the only ones who are committed to fair regulation of the situation of the elderly in our society. But the truth is a little different. The backdrop of the investments made by all these opposition proposals, and in particular by the SDS, is the deliberate political game. Its main purpose is to make the work of the coalition difficult, or to put it in a media-disadvantaged position, while proposing is superficial, to such an extent that it is not difficult to find arguments as to why such proposals are not good and would result in additional legal irregularities or inadequacy. The Coalition Agreement contains some challenges and solutions for the eradication of poverty among pension recipients. It is not only the proposals that the SDS Parliamentary Group partially summarized in the law. A number of other measures are envisaged that will address the issue of pension and disability insurance in an integrated manner. In doing so, we have also tried to take into account the financial sustainability of the pension fund and the stability we need in this area for the normal functioning of the pension system. We can't do everything overnight. The changes must be prudent, coordinated with the social partners and financially sustainable. The social situation of pensioners will be better by the adoption of the new Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019. In 2019 we expect extraordinary reconciliation of pensions and payment of a higher annual allowance, the so-called pension regression, for which we will jointly provide 25 million euros more than we have so far. With the annual allowance, we will continue to advocate progressive regulation in the manner defined in the coalition agreement. However, we estimate that, at the moment, certain pensioners' rights are better governed by the draft law on the implementation of budgets, as they depend on the current financial picture of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office and budgetary movements. The rest must be regulated in an integrated manner within the framework of the primary law governing pension and disability insurance. The coalition agreement will certainly be implemented during the term of office, but not inadvertently and unwisely on the shoulders of proposals for laws that do not have the defined or financial implications of such changes. Finally, I should like to point out that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also committed itself to preparing a proposal for a law that will include the guidelines of the coalition agreement in the first half of 2019. On the basis of the proposal made by the Marjan Sarca Group of the novel of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which is ahead of us today, we will not support.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, for which is Sonibo Prince. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u10	Thank you, Chairman. Respectable. “Because the relevant data for the indicative calculation of the financial implications are not publicly available, it is not possible to assess the financial implications. The law does not provide for additional budgetary resources for the implementation of the law, as pension payments are provided at the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance." End of quote. Dear colleagues, colleagues, I have quoted you as saying two sentences on page 8 assessing the financial implications of the bill and answering the question of where we are going to take it. This is the attitude of the proponents towards public finances, following the start of the mandate, when they triggered the fear of the destructive measures that the coalition has included in the coalition agreement. Today, colleagues and colleagues, only a good two months later themselves propose the implementation of the coalition objectives in the field of pensions, of course without analysis and calculations, and even with a cynical remark that this state budget will cost nothing, as the pension costs of the Institute of Pensions and Disability Insurance. Of course, they do not do this because they would want to favour Slovenian pensioners and pensioners, and not because they would have found answers in the meantime to the questions about how much the measures cost and where we would take them. No, it's all just to frame the coalition when it comes to adopting budget laws. All this just to make fun of the coalition plans and try to show them in a bad light. The key solutions contained in the bill are very similar to those set out in the Coalition Treaty in the area of pensions. Their aim is to provide decent pensions especially to those who receive pensions of less than EUR 500 today. Such recipients, we agree here, are too little to feel the responsibility to act. Regrettably, however, there remains a difference between the objective that the ruling coalition will enter into its agreement with a view to finding solutions and achieving them by the end of the term of office and the legislative proposals that promise certain groups of pensioners an increase in pensions without knowing how to fulfil such an obligation. Perhaps someone would like to interpret these words as giving up or watering down the objectives of the coalition treaty, so we must reject this interpretation in advance. A rise in the percentages of the lowest pensions and taking into account all the contributions actually paid in the pension age is certainly our goal. Unlike some, however, we want to do so thoughtfully and comprehensively. However, without analysis and implementation plans, such a proposal is only an obstacle to the implementation of budgetary changes, which would, inter alia, provide a pension allowance of five levels in the coming year. Changes in the pension system have very long-term and painful effects on people, as the proponents themselves have found a few days ago when they proposed to increase rural pensions. However, it is very important that partial solutions do not further aggravate the situation of some groups. Therefore, my fellow Members and colleagues, in the Group of Social Democrats, after the end of the debate, we will oppose the proposal for a decision that this bill is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Janja Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u12	Today we are looking forward to another debate in a series of those where we will receive from one side to the other the attachment of laurels about who is most committed to pensioners and pensioners. At the same time, of course, we will also be bitterly looking for the culprit for too low pensions and for the poor material position of pensioners. All of this will be done on the basis of a current coalition agreement signed by five coalition or government parties. Everything's fine and fine. It's about legitimate work and others. Nevertheless, some very important facts should be shed light. Today's novelists are clever in exploiting the coalition's space of manoeuvre, although not one of the proposed measures is part of their pre-election programme, even though they today claimed it. Otherwise, today we would be discussing how we will provide a 500-euro Christmas house each year for pensioners or whether we would discuss the future of the pension system on the basis of a white book on pension reform. And we won't, because that's not the purpose of today's session. Today, some are to be portrayed as carefree decision makers who do not yet respect their own commitments. Because of some, in our view of unnecessary disagreements between certain coalition partners, we are witnessing today so much an attempt to make that river come true, because you know where the two are arguing about the political sense of gathering political points. [[…]] We distance ourselves from such a work in the modern centre Party Group, for in the end, those on whose behalf we so like to advertise – pensioners and pensioners will be drawn. Nevertheless, what is particularly important is the substantive facts which will prevent us from supporting the bill in our parliamentary group. First time. The current coalition contract does not speak anywhere about the implementation of the annual allowance and the coordination of pensions within the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. The amount of the annual allowance in past legislation has never been regulated in this way. Even the Pension and Disability Insurance Act itself provides for the amount of the allowance to be determined in the law governing the implementation of the budget. The same is true of extraordinary coordination of pensions. And with the current government bill on the implementation of budgets, which we will soon decide on, we are doing exactly what is proposed today. We are extremely coordinating pensions and assigning an annual allowance to pensioners. Hence, their situation does not deteriorate from this point of view. In addition, in accordance with the proposed law on the implementation of the budget in February 2019, the aid and service allowance and disability allowance for physical impairment will also be aligned. The harmonisation is provided for at the same height and in the same way as the regular reconciliation of pensions. However, these supplements have not been coordinated since 2013 among other things, if we are to mention them. Another time. We are still committed to the coalition commitment after the increase of the dose percentage, but not in the way proposed today, which improves the social situation only to those individuals who have completed 40 years of work. However, such a proposal will not bring any improvement to all others who have worked for a shorter period. And let's not forget, in the previous term, during the time of the government of Mir Cerar, the institution of the lowest pension was established in the event that full pension conditions were met. But what we have on the tables today is actually the rescue of one group at the expense of another. And the third time. The proposal to ensure that all pensioners who receive a pension at a lower rate than the basic amount of the minimum income are provided with the lowest pension in the amount of that amount is not, in fact, useful or contrary to the insurance principle and the principle of equality, which are significantly embedded in the existing pension system. It was not supported by the Group of the Modern Centre Party at the meeting of the Labour Committee, in the form of an amendment at the time of the adoption of another law. Why? Because the length of payment of contributions would not have been reflected in the amount of the pension. An individual with a 15-year retirement age would be equal to one who had completed thirty-two years of retirement. Is that fair? Is this in the spirit of the fundamental principles of our pension system? Your Honor! Surely we are all present today to have done something good for pensioners and pensioners. No one's going to deny it. The first steps of the new government are also aimed at improving their position. Next week, we will all have the opportunity to confirm these solutions together, and then, with the same steps that are good for the pensioners, we will continue. Running over on the right or on the left, we don't think it's good for anyone. The proposed novels of our support do not benefit and, of course, we will vote against the conclusion that the bill is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Left Messenger Group, for her Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u14	Thank you, Chairman. The SDS shall, by means of this proposal, copy the coalition contract. He hides behind the action his past and the current gripping of the poor and saving on the workers. And this super-hickey ruthless milling for the poor and giving to the rich didn't even spare the pensioners. Pension reforms and policies, including the two Janša governments, have never given working people jobs, have always been taken away from them. Consequences – pensions are too low in Slovenia. As early as 2006, the lowest pension amounted to 69% of the average wage. However, this ratio fell below 60% in 2016. In Levika, we have repeatedly warned that half of the pensioners who are old receive pensions that are lower than the minimum cost of living in 613 euros, and that the pensions guaranteed amount to EUR 207, which is EUR 185 below the level of social assistance. It is for this lowest pension that it is necessary to secure and raise to the level of the short-term minimum cost of living, namely EUR 442 as one of the first steps. The rate of poverty among pensioners is four times higher than among employees, with the most affected women over 65 years of age. Every fifth poor person in our country is a retired woman. If we look at the data of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance for October 2018, a pension of less than EUR 500 received more than 32 000 people, of which almost 22,000 women. However, despite the low pensions, we had to provide an additional EUR 125 billion from the state budget last year for their payments in addition to the contributions. And among other things, why it was necessary to do so is why employers pay half the lower contributions than workers. We're talking about being a society that's getting old. We're talking about young people not finding work. And we're talking about how we're going to have to work longer and longer. We have young people who can't find a job, and we have older people who don't let them go to retirement. And it can be clear to everyone that these two claims are in conflict, but they do. They hold because the state needs as many as possible those who contribute to the treasury. With the extension of working time and the pressure on low pensions, the state ensures this cash sustainability. Does the state really need this? Shouldn't we turn the logic around? Should not those who have worked all their lives now enjoy old age in peace? Shouldn't we provide them with decent pensions? Is that why the whole system would collapse? Would the state be in a financial crisis if we suddenly raised our pensions to a more dignified level? The answer is no. We can do all of this, we can't go bankrupt, we just have to change the source of income. Instead of the abominable parasite at the work of the elderly, which is currently available to the State and the holding of pensions at a shamelessly low level, we can first compare the employer’s contributions with the contributions of the worker. A simple equation and elimination of inequality can be the first step. The second step is increased taxation of capital and profits. The payment of capital income contributions would bring an additional EUR 50 million to the cash register. The third step was the regulation of the real estate market, which would tax those with multiple properties, forced them to pay more because they own more. Or they would simply dispose of the property and thus facilitate the search for accommodation for all those who are currently receiving half their income. In addition, a solidarity tax could be imposed on all incomes from which the care of the elderly would be paid both in homes for the elderly and in the form of assistance at home. Are we going this way? No, no, no. Instead, we have reached a point where we are actually talking about older people's survival strategies. We're talking about restricting vital needs. We are talking about things that, as a society, under no circumstances should we even consider landing. We have pensioners who save on food and cut off from their mouths. We have those who save money in the heat, hit energy poverty, or avoid trade if I don't start at all about housing maintenance and the like. 58,000 people over 65 live in poverty. At the risk of poverty among the elderly, we are above the average of the European Union. The solution is more than enough, just look at what we have to change. We can take a brief look at what you say and what we say in Levica. On the one hand, you insist that jobs disappear, that work be replaced by machines and so on. On the other hand, you still claim that people have to work practically until their death. This is a completely contradictory position, but it doesn't bother you at all. We in Levica, however, say that it is true that jobs disappear because of technological advances, also insists that the population is old, but does not hold that we must work to the death. We simply say that we understand this contradiction if we recognize that the reflection of the fundamental contradiction between work and capital is between the development of productive forces, which we are following in the technical and scientific progress of our society, on the one hand, and the production relations, which are persistently resisting to follow this progress, on the other hand. And this is reflected in the fact that instead of having six or four-hour employees after three or four jobs, this is reflected in the fact that we have the most modern technology, while some of our fellow citizens do not have money for food. And this is reflected in the fact that people have to work until they are too old to enjoy the rest of life in peace. This will be so as long as you defend a country whose primary functions will be merely stimulating and subsidising the economy. The question of pensions is therefore not just a question that would affect only one population. It is also a matter of a health system in which it is necessary to end privatisation and abolish concessions. It is also a question of the educational system, because opening up the university of the market is an absolute decline in the quality of education. And it is also a question of jobs that are destroyed by more than machines of exorcising labour regimes, an uncertain condition of work and a low wage for employees. That is why we need public health, which will be accessible and quality. That is why we need a public education where the only differences will be those in dedication to the study, not who can afford it. That is why we need stable jobs where people will not burn for miserable wages. All of this is translated into decent pensions, poverty eradication and higher standards of retirement and pension. We need all this together. That's something we're fighting for in the Left. This is something we advocate, so we will not oppose this proposal either, even though the SDS, as a proponent to pensioners and pensions, is double-faced to disability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for her Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u16	Dear Vice President, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The law under consideration was introduced on the initiative of the Association of Retired Associations of Slovenia. ZDUS has recently sent a letter to all the groups sent to present to us proposals for measures aimed at raising too low pensions for future pensioners within a few years. This would be achieved mainly by these measures: raising the rate of retirement rate to 63 % for the full working period; raising it gradually over five years, at 0.55 per cent per year; raising the minimum pension rate for the old and the disabled, to the level of the minimum benefit provided by the Law on Social Security Benefits; fixing an annual allowance at two levels, i.e. a higher amount for pension recipients who are lower than the amount of the full-time pension pension; and reducing the amount for those who receive more than the amount of the full-time pension; linking the regular coordination of pensions at the level of economic growth in the previous year. In New Slovenia, we support the proposals for solutions prepared in the ZDUS and have been tabled by colleagues from the SDS, as the material situation of pensioners needs to be improved. That's probably what we all agree on. The solutions proposed by the Association of Pensioners of Slovenia are thoughtful and in particular gradual. This means that they are also feasible in terms of the budget. Just yesterday, with the leadership of the Retired Society Association, we discussed the issue of the pension system. We have proposed to the President of the ZDUS that he should take on the role of the facilitator of the discussions related to the reform of the pension system. Demographic trends require adjustment of the pension system, and the ZDUS is most called for this because it is an ambassador who could encourage all political forces to discuss and find solutions for the joint table. In recent times, there has been a very obvious match of political parties for pensioners-related topics, but it seems that all this game of political parties does not produce the right results in order to express this also in pensioners' pensions. In New Slovenia, we will not stop pointing out the poor situation of disabled people, widows and rural women who still live with sadly low incomes. Members, we have a duty to settle this. Members of New Slovenia will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek, for her Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Dearly beloved, the marriage proposal before us today is almost impossible to assess other than speculation. In the SDS party, they practically copied the good solutions of Alenka Bratušek for pensioners and those who will retire and now sell them for their own. But there's a big difference. The proposal is only a poor copy of the proposal by Alenka Bratušek, as the Secretary of State has already explained in detail. Besides, the SDS isn't really about pensioners and decent pensions, I have a feeling. They are particularly concerned with bringing divisions into the coalition and weakening the government. This is even explicitly recognised in the explanation of the proposal. They wrote that they wanted to make sure that the majority in the National Assembly were ready to make the pre-election pledges regarding the improvement of the status of pensioners. That the motives here are not entirely sincere, the past actions of the SDS also show. While in Alenka Bratušek in the spring of 2017 and 2018 after Slovenia we collected signatures to raise the percentage of the pension rate by 5% for all pensioners and to regulate the regression, the SDS party was intimidated by the arrival of migrants rather than looking for a solution for pensioners. If we go even further into the past, I cannot pass the fact that the government under the leadership of SDS and Janez Janša in 2012 has reduced the pension by more than 26,000 pensioners by 25%. This was the only time that pensions in Slovenia had fallen. Just like that, without a quarter of the pension, there's a lot of our people left. They later turned to the SAB and thanked our presidents for her government's unconstitutional decision to leave and the pensioners' unpaid money was later received in their accounts. The SDS proposal and today's meeting are therefore, above all, an attempt to resolve disagreements within the coalition, perhaps their intention is to show that the coalition of its commitments will not be realized within the time limit agreed. It is true, we will not succeed within the deadlines set out in the agreement, but this does not mean that we will not achieve the objectives, as the partners have assured us. As you all know, in the Alenka Bratušek Party, we have entered this coalition with a clear purpose that the dose percentage will be raised already for those who will retire in 2019 and that the regression will be paid as it was before the crisis, at two levels instead of five. As we have repeatedly stressed, if the crisis is over, it must be over for everyone, including for pensioners who cannot help themselves with a sentence like some others. When it began to show that in the coalition agreement the agreed measures would not be implemented by the government at the agreed time, we in the SAB called the summit of the coalition and warned that we had signed the coalition agreement in order to make it known that we understood in the SAB as a commitment. Unfortunately, at some point our request to the government and other parties did not receive sufficient support for implementation. Nevertheless, we decided to remain in the government in the SAB. We are confident that the people did not elect us to be back in the elections in a few months, but to do something for them. And only if we are in the government can we achieve something for the pensioners and the young and all the others. Those who have failed to form a government are not given this. Our warnings about pensions are quite appropriate. There are simply too many who cannot afford additional care with their pension, which also makes life difficult for the middle generation and the young. This needs to be taken root, and our coalition partners have assured us that we will also deal with this together. Members of Alenka Bratusek's proposal will not be supported by the SDS. The SDS does not understand and does not want to understand that it is necessary to take a systematic approach to the matter and that pensions should be increased for all pensioners, including those who do not have an age of 40 for different reasons. In Alenka Bratušek, we have collected 6,000 signatures in Slovenia to raise the percentage for the 5 per cent pension rate for all groups of pension recipients, and we will insist. We have assurances from our coalition partners that we will raise our pensions and arrange for a fair payment of the regression. As a strong coalition partner, we believe in these assurances and are prepared to wait and contribute our part to make this happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The word is also given by the Desus Group, for which Yuri Leprechaun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u20	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ministry, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The opposition party decided to try to implement the coalition agreement of five parties, which jointly formed the 13th Slovenian government on 13 September. Our government is not even active for a full hundred days, which is supposed to be a reasonable time to start working with full steam and thus to carry out joint coalition projects. Undoubtedly, the draft changes in the pension area have been set as a priority for this coalition. However, this is also one of the most challenging areas, so it is also a hundred days too short for us to bring the matter under the roof if we want to make a genuine and sincere change in the way that we do not cause injustices and even greater harm. In the Desus Group, we do not oppose the goals that the proposal we have before us today has tried to achieve. But both this proposal and the previous three proposals, which we have already considered in this current mandate, are not, according to our assessment, suitable for further consideration. For the first time, because this euphoria of investing the novels ZPIZ-2 in our opinion does not mean a serious intention to address the problems of current and future pensioners. It is very obvious that mass investment in laws is only a way of blocking the key budget document adopted, this is a law on the implementation of budgets for 2019. Yeah, that's it. By adopting this pension law, the already agreed average of municipalities can fall into the water or pass funding on to the 12th system. Moreover, ZIPRS, as it is called, which is directly linked to today's topic, also regulates the coordination of pensions and the annual allowance. These two are therefore the social relationship of both law and law, which makes it possible in the legislative procedure to deal with a previously submitted delay of treatment of the next one which touches on the same subject matter. And people don't know that, so it's only right that they're aware of that. For we fear that, sadly, they will listen as many times as they have heard and only hear the obvious fact that Desus does not want to take care of them or does not want to take care of them. In our Group of Members, we regret that civil society, in particular pensioners, are able to easily sit on the conviction of those who have five minutes of time to play with the topics of the pension law in order to promote themselves, and thus with the fate of one third of our citizens and citizens. If I have already begun to explain the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly or the rules of the legislative procedure, I should recall how the previous mandate expired. The same patent for investing in novelties of the pension law has already taken place the last half year before the elections, and this wait for our, Desus's law, a proposal to remedy the rights of pensioners who were deprived of their pensions by 7.2% during the economic crisis, to be dealt with. Since, despite previous rejections, they have been reintroduced into the procedure of your laws and laws of New Slovenia, unfortunately, they have not even come into the decision-making phase. In preparing the text of the Coalition Treaty for a new mandate, five parties, together with Levica, have thus planned to return this reduction in a way that, in addition to regular coordination, the pensions will rise further by extraordinary means, with dynamics, adjusted to economic growth and financial sustainability of the pension treasury. In the proposal before us today, the text of this agreement is incorporated into the articles of the law which sets out how to coordinate regularly. It is introduced as a fuse for the lower limit of regular coordination, although the fuse is already there, namely a fuse, which was set up with the coordination formula already in 2012, by the way, you have successfully arranged this, and coordinated with the social partners, which is very important. Economic growth is also included in the mode of coordination, indirectly through wage growth, and in this way, together with inflation, the value of pensions is maintained. It is right that in this place, the Democratic Party of the Retired recalls the formula that we were trying to achieve at the time, namely the proposal that pension coordination be more reflected in wage growth. I should also remind you that, in the previous term, we have insisted that pensions be re-coordinated after freezing, so in the last few years we have achieved both regular and extraordinary coordination. Also in the coming year, pensions with a regular harmonisation of 2.8% at the beginning of the year and once again at the end of the year with an extraordinary increase of 1.5%. It's an annual supplement. True, the darkness has lifted pressure even on the Prime Minister. When, in spite of all things, a five-year scale was unanimously adopted by the government, it was a very clear signal to us in Desus that other government parties also remained faithful to social attitudes and justice. For next year's annual allowance, €18 million will be spent more than last year, totalling around €140 million. If it has been an annual supplement or if you want regression, initially for the recreation of pensioners, practice shows that these funds have not been intended for recreation for a long time in most cases. This supplement serves many to a large extent as an adjustment to low pensions. Since we are a socialist party, our priority is to care for the weakest. If we have a financial framework, both within the framework of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office and in the state budget, with a golden fiscal rule, then in Desus we are convinced that it is right that the available funds within 620 thousand pensioners are distributed in a solidarity manner in order to obtain more with lower pensions. We can still be solidarity in our country, can't we? And briefly on the other two contents, points of the bill. The dose percentage, as proposed, increases the pension only for the full pension period, that is 40 years of active labour, for all other short-term insured persons there is no increase in the dose rate. This means that not only early pensioners but also disabled persons and beneficiaries of family and widow's pensions are missing. Thus, in no way is the social situation of all of these already less favourable. However, an increase in the minimum age and invalidity pension following this proposal would result in a pension balance according to the length of the contribution. Ask the pensioner who has worked for 30 years if he agrees to have the same pension as the pensioner who spent only 15 years. I guess the answer's gonna be clear. With regard to these two points, the applicant has made a significant mistake by introducing non-systemic changes in the pension system, which are contrary to the insurance principle and contrary to the principle of fairness in relation to the duration of the payment of contributions. In view of all the above, our Group concludes that at the moment we trust the Minister and her team to prepare as soon as possible the changes as set out in the Coalition Agreement and at the same time not to see the disadvantages between the individual categories of pensioners or insurers treated equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the parliamentary groups. I give the floor to the representative of the Magi's proposal. Carmen Furman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. You, your well-respected colleagues and coalition colleagues, have just such coordination and the growth of pensions in your coalition contract. It's obvious that you've forgotten her a little over the past six months, so I'm going to quote you on this coalition contract. On page 9 you have a measure entitled Prevention of poverty among pension recipients written: “The rate of 40 years of retirement will gradually be at least 63%.” So for 40 years of retirement, the rate of 63%. And then it even states that you will implement this measure as of 1 January 2019. Let us also see the following indent: “We will set an annual allowance at two different levels, namely 80% of the lowest full pension pension for those who receive pensions less than the lowest full-time pension, and 50% for those who receive more than the lowest full-time pension.” This measure would also be implemented as from 1 January 2019. But now you're going to say that maybe you didn't mean it? You yourself have written these same measures into a coalition contract, you have even set a deadline of 1 January 2019, by the way, today we are 5 December to start implementing them, and today you are convincing us here that otherwise the goals, yes, because you support them, but not the content of our proposals. But now you no longer support your content of the coalition treaty or how? Are we just now on the possibility that the paper can handle everything? Let me get on with it. It was also said that we were only raising our pension for a full retirement period of 40 years. This was your proposal from the coalition treaty, and we all know that we are in the first phase of the legislative process today. We in our party will be pleased to see you in the next legislative process showing what political will and interest will be raised for all others. Of course with a lower pension base. The Government stated that there was no prior social dialogue, no prior coordination by the social partners. Here I would like to refresh your memory a little bit last week when we discussed the proposal by colleagues from the Left, namely the minimum wage law. There was no prior coordination either, no social dialogue, and the proposal was well received, supported by the coalition. Now, please, have the same criteria for pensioners today. Be just and honest today, too, for the pensioners. After all, we know that the proposal can then be coordinated with the social partners in further legislative consideration. In our party, we believe that it would be right for it to then be in line with social dialogue in the next legislative procedure. In its opinion today, the Government also stresses that insurance rights are recognised according to the amount of contributions paid to the pension fund, i.e. the amount of the right is recognised according to the amount of contributions paid. But this is something else, distinguished representatives of the government, like you did last week, you didn't want to hear any of this. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party would have been very pleased last week when we discussed our proposal for a new Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, with which we wanted to correct the injustices of more than 56,000 people who are not recognised under the applicable legislation, and were paid fairly under the regulations of that time, we wanted to correct the injustices of farmers who are not recognised today by the amount of contributions paid, but then you did not want to hear anything about it. At that time, the government did not hear of these people paying more in their pension bills than they did today. And at that time, you did not refer to the constitutional principle of equality, to which I warned myself at the time when the agenda item was being considered. It is a principle that the same cases in the law need to be dealt with in the same way. You didn't want to hear it at the time, because you'd be confused about how to reject such a law with your arguments. Today, you can also explain that with the proposed amendment, we are improving the social situation only to a narrower category of insurers. Sometimes, however, a person can’t believe what excuses you will find for not adopting the proposed bill. In 2018, the lowest pension is 218.26 euros. Are you even wondering how a person can survive with that amount per month? We have recently discussed here the Social Security Benefits Act, which preserved this basic minimum income of 392,75 euros. And so today we have social support much higher than individual recipients have a high pension. Back then, in our SDS party, we also warned about poverty among the elderly and pensioners, and among the beneficiaries of disability pensions who have left their health in the workplace, today they receive lower pensions than this minimum income. We have proposed an amendment to raise these minimum ages and invalidity pensions at least to the level of this amount of minimum personal income. At that time, you also supported coalition parties on the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. You agreed with the content of the amendment, but it was said that these proposed solutions should be incorporated into the provisions of the regional pension and disability legislation. We did the last one, but now we're out of your back again. We are listening even by certain colleagues to the fact that this proposal is not useful. I hope that today you are heard by the recipients of these pensions, who receive 200, 300, 400 euros in pensions, that this proposal is not useful. Because if I were and you were to support him, these pensions would be raised. Are we surprised? No, we didn't. Given the policy you've been implementing so far, we can't be. Today you have let Slovenia know that there is no political support for pensioners, but that their financial and social situation is improved. You have laid down all possible excuses so that you should not be supported by the proposed law. This is about your banal flat-rate statements. You've even gone so far as to deny the content of your own coalition contract. Yeah, not everyone, sorry, sorry. My colleagues from the Left say we just signed it. You know, we in the Slovenian Democratic Party are going to defend every pensioner who's done his part under any law, and that deserves the amount of pension for the decent survival of his age. But we're disappointed. For I myself believed that in such important decisions when it comes to people's difficulties, when we can improve their lives with our decisions, I believed that the policy of left, right, middle or whatever is already not important that the only thing that counts is. to make a better and better future for our pensioners. And that's why I'm disappointed when I listen to your views and the banal reasons for rejecting this marriage. I also believe that people who look at you and listen to you are disappointed today. Because of your policy, because of your toying with current and future pensioners, because of your swindling and deceiving, our pensioners will unfortunately be drawn again. And that's unacceptable. This is about people who have worked honestly for years and years, working hard, paying contributions to the pension fund. Some have even left their health in the workplace, but now they cannot afford the basic cost of their survival with their pensions. Where are your pre-election promises now? Yes, indeed, some of you even collected signatures before the elections to support them. Now, six months after the election, you seem to have forgotten about the pensioners. They have forgotten their financial and social situation, because obviously today only your party's political interest is important. And no, dear colleagues from the Party of Alenka Bratusek, we don't guess. We just want to improve the position of our pensioners. It is sad, truly sad that only once we cannot pass through who is preparing the bill, because if something is good for our citizens, so in this case for our pensioners, it would be right to support the latter, regardless of who is preparing this law. Thank you so much for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u23	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that this Miklavžev evening caused a significant rash among the applicants, especially those on the left, I will read which are also reported: Robert Pavšč, Ludmila Novak, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Andrej Šušmelj, Jožef Horvat, and Jožef Lenart, some others, remain. First, I give the floor to Ambassador Robert Pavšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. Good evening, everyone! We've heard that paper carries a lot, but the ether seems to carry a lot more, and it gets lost even faster if it doesn't stay somewhere on some magnetic medium. And don't ask me about banality and flattiness. In the last half of the year, we've been following your suggestions in the National Assembly, which would have resulted in one billion holes in the budget, and then everyone, not just the pensioners, would have gotten a lot more if they had run out of a thousand million, because that means one billion. It is good for a person to be at heart when he listens to your argument, and we cannot possibly be indifferent because we recognize the social problems of people who do not have incomes, not because of their misdeeds, but because of the system which, I will repeat, has been caused by this Parliament in the last 30 years. And not now to overrule the responsibility of the last reference! No, the responsibility is collective and must be counted in 27 years. We've already received some calls today to pour ourselves some clean wine. If this pure wine I've been in here drinking, we wouldn't be stopping now. But I'm going to propose another glass. Why are we discussing this proposal today? Not for the sake of concern for pensioners, let us be honest, but because with your proposal you are blocking the adoption of the law on the implementation of budgets, because you have submitted it earlier, and it must be before the legislative procedure. You can nod. So proper timing perfidically and very transparently. If this law were adopted today, the state would be blocked if it were not even impoverished, because it would all go to francs with the new year. Any brakes made to maintain the public financial sustainability system would be eliminated by this proposal. And you know that, and I believe that you also hope that this law will not be passed, because if it were, then we can close, throw the keys away and we all go home. Thank you for making a copy-paste, we will translate, so copy and paste the agreement of five parties, and this is very superficial, actually our actions, by not having a problem in action, the problem is not in content, the problem is in technique and the problem is in dynamics. The Budget Implementation Act, which will be under review next week, already provides 25 million more for pensioners, and this is from all the parties we are sitting here: harmonisation, the annual allowance, and I believe that in the future we will intensify this dynamic, that it will be easier and that in fact the one who needs the money most in this country will finally get it once again. So once again, please don't banalize me and don't ask me to put words in my mouth that we haven't written or spoken. This perfidious word conversion doesn't look anything like you, I'm very sorry. You are also preparing proposals on a flat and superficial basis, without financial consequences or because the pension fund is not part of the public financial system. Okay. I personally deeply support all the goals you have proposed even more. I think that the dose percentage should be raised not to 63%, but more strongly. I support the objectives, not the irresponsible abuse of the Rules of Procedure or the legislative procedure, which it is today. You're only putting in a marriage to block us, so thank you very much, but we missed you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The text is by Ambassador Ljudmila Novak, who is to be prepared for Susana Pretty Šimenka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Apparently, there is a struggle in this House for retirement votes to win a medal for pensioners to get two scoops of ice cream more. So, this is the end of such terrible promotions. It's a crime to report to the opposition that he's making laws. It is our duty to make laws for Members, and thus to help the country to act better, to adopt laws for Members. That's why it's unfair to report it to the opposition just because you're teasing us because I don't know what you want. No, no, no. This is our right, and you can tell whether you agree with them, whether you disagree, or whether you will accept something, or you will supplement it. This law helps to implement your coalition agreement. Your problem is that you're late because you don't respect what you've written down in your contract. This law only helps you and the pensioners will really have the most if the marriage goes forward, if we complement it, if we harmonise it in the financial field and then it will work. Why not? As long as the ruling coalition behaves in such a way that it is important and only what you are proposing, and what we are proposing, and everything that sucks is wrong, then we will never take a step forward in this policy, a step of possible convergence or addition to our general benefit or the general benefit of citizens. I'll support this marriage. Look, you helped prepare him with your proposals in the coalition contract and the Alliance of Retired Associations. And the pensioners are not only from Desus, but not from Sab, not from SDS, not from New Slovenia, we have many pensioners in our party. Retired, too. Therefore, it is the concern of all of us and the duty of all of us to seek the right, good, best solutions and it is right that someone who has worked because the pension is not a charity that has worked full-time so that he can at least pay the home for the elderly when he cannot take care of himself. Now we see that this is impossible, and that is why we have many poor pensioners. Unfortunately. We have put forward quite a few solutions. We have proposed, in the previous mandate, even a pension reform that would also motivate new younger payers who now see no point in paying into the pension register because they believe they will never get a pension. These changes are necessary and will be necessary. Once we start looking for such integrated solutions, we, or those who are younger, will also receive pensions. Why does New Slovenia always stress good solutions for the economy? Because we know that only this brings better wages, and this results in better pensions because our lives or budgets are very complex. Things connect, they complement. However, given that we have an extension of life to prolong life, in most people it is good news, while at the same time we need many changes, new solutions, so that we can solve all these problems in the future. This government will have to work more effectively and more quickly. Look, this marriage is helping you. We have also proposed a series of laws to help solve these problems, and unfortunately we hear evidence of how rude we are, how inappropriate we do. Well, that's our job! The sooner we learn what tasks you have, what tasks we have, the sooner we look for good common solutions, the better for us and also for the pensioners and all citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word has Susana Lepi Šimenka, prepare Andrej Šushmelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. The pension system is certainly one of the most important foundations on which our so-called social state is based. Retired persons are certainly one of the most important parts of society, which, last but not least, is reflected in the fact that all the parties competed in the pre-election period, who will give more initiatives and proposals for pensioners. However, it is interesting, above all, that, not the last time you have had the opportunity to do anything in the previous term, the parties who have made a lot of promises that you have ministers in all the governments that so advocate for pensioners, but who have never taken over this department, the parties who have led this ministry in the last few mandates, but unfortunately, the pensioners have been extremely few at that time. We know that pensioners have done their part in life, and if anything, of course they deserve some decent pensions with which they can live with dignity. Unfortunately, the stories on the ground are quite different from the stories of many pensioners. I believe that, in particular, the new Members probably have a lot of time to visit the field, visit people, you don't. Also because, last but not least, of the time that Members are supposed to have in the field, you are using this government coalition to give us different board meetings. Of course, in a way, it becomes clear to me that on Mondays, when we are supposed to be in our parliamentary offices, they mean nothing more than that you do not want to face real problems, people's problems. We have the most questions from people coming directly from the pensioners. The most stories come from their side. More than obviously, the reason you insist on this meeting on Monday afternoon is precisely in this regard. Unfortunately, we don't all live in Ljubljana. To get to Ljubljana, we also spend about two hours. And in this way, you also make it impossible for those of us who want to, and we're pretty much in the field. But nothing about it, we're gonna go through these things. Much has been said today about the so - called social justice. Unfortunately, I don't think we can talk about social justice. Also at the expense of the measures you have already taken in this government, the recipients of social assistance have a certain amount. But have you ever faced any of the pensioners who spent 20 years working 25 years, not losing their job because of their guilt, not receiving 392 euros in pension? You know how many people knocked on my door or texted me when, yeah, what about us who actually did something in the country, we don't get that amount. Does that seem socially fair to you? When you have your mouth full of social justice here, and which you are finally reading to us, I don't know what else to suggest, on a flat-rate basis, to abuse even the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because we are proposing laws. There's been a lot of delusions on your part today. Look, there's no social justice. And if you don't actually intend to do something in this area, as you promise, we can't promise it in the future. In 2017, we have already heard this information, there were 78 000 pensioners living below the poverty threshold of €636 at this time in Slovenia. This means that if we look at the percentages, 16% of all pensioners. It's probably an extraordinary, extremely large amount. It is therefore essential that we do something in this area. There's a lot of excuses, yeah, 'cause we're just getting started, but it hasn't been 100 days. I would only remind you that this coalition of yours is just an extended coalition of the former government. Most, even if not Members, the parties have already been in the previous government. So saying that now is too quick to do anything in this area is, unfortunately, simply not drinking water on my part. It has also been heard today that we have copied the ZDUS measures and that we have copied these measures from the SAB. It was well said, we took these measures out of your coalition contract. Why did we do that? As we have also heard many times in the previous mandate, which was in one way or another the composition of the three parties that are in the current coalition, that we are proposing inappropriate measures. Yeah, but now we're saying, okay, but we're gonna take those of yours that you support. Somehow we were sure you'd support it. But these measures are obviously not the right thing to do. And I don't know, as far as I'm concerned, apparently, the SAB copied these measures from the ZDUS, and you put them in coalition based on the SAB, yes, and we downloaded them from your coalition. As appropriate or inappropriate as they may be, I don't know, but let's make a deal with each other. Even some of the things that are actually evident to us here by the government, these proposals are from your coalition, and we have taken them together in the same way. But let me point out, today is the first consideration, the first consideration, which means that the law together can be adequately drawn to the content that you are now assessing to be appropriate, because in these three months probably a lot has happened. It is really strange that in this opinion, we read to the government that you support the objectives pursued by the law, but you do not support the content of the bill. Even if it's a coalition contract. I don't know, then more than apparently the government doesn't intend to implement this coalition contract. Also as far as the dose percentage is concerned, you can tell that it only rises in cases where the insured have completed 40 years of retirement. Yeah, but that's also what the coalition contract says. I agree, it might be better here to find a better solution, but, as I say, the law is at first reading, we can still finish it properly. In your opinion, the current arrangement for determining the height of the annual additive is more appropriate than the fixed determination of the amount in the PIZ-2. Here we do not set a fixed amount, but we just want to attach it to the minimum pension rate for the full pension period, which is currently EUR 517. But we're not talking about some fixed amount, we're talking about a term that's being used and that's also changing through coordination. The government here states that it is more appropriate to consider the regulation of an annual supplement in several classes also in systemic legislation. I don't know, ZIPRS is probably not a system-wide pension legislation. If I understand this correctly, you are also advocating that in some way the annual allowance is determined in systemic legislation. Otherwise, here you now state that it might be more appropriate in several classes, but we have proposed two classes, as you wrote in your coalition contract. Since we went to do some calculations, of course we figured out where the reason was why you decided to do something different now. Because you're actually going to save something with this. Because the pensioners will get less than if they fulfilled that commitment you actually made in the coalition contract itself. The government here also stresses the need to ensure regular harmonisation of pensions in accordance with system law. You still argue that it is better to resolve this in the law on the implementation of the budget. Yes, extraordinary coordination, but here we have not proposed extraordinary coordination, but regular harmonisation of pensions, and it is right to save it in a system law. There was a lot of talk that this is now a political game, that the solution must be systemic, integrated. All of this we have also heard in the previous term, when we already had these customers here. Our solution wasn't always systemic, it wasn't integrated, but yours was always the best. That's why we've now proposed your solutions, and apparently these are not systemic. I agree. The only systemic would be a new pension law, complete. The pension reform would be a systemic solution that I believe that at least at the Ministry you are aware that we urgently need it in a very short time. But as the coalition contract goes on, there will also be no systemic solution on your part, because there is no pension reform anywhere. There are only these minor corrections that we have actually proposed. But since we're proposing them as opposition, of course you don't take them into account. What can I say? Of course, it saddens me. I expected, given that these are your suggestions that the marriage will also be supported in the first reading. Once again, it is the first reading, the law can be complemented appropriately, the government's opinion taken into account, I don't know, your change in attitudes over the last three months and we can move this law forward peacefully. So, honourable Members, let us reconsider. Last time you wrote that down, you promised people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u29	Thank you very much! First, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Secretary of State Tiln Bozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u30	Thank you for your word! I would have responded a little to these observations, which were linked to what the coalition contract said, what the government is doing, what coalition parties think they are possible solutions and so on. The coalition contract sets out, we can call it political starting points, and if we compare it with those children's paintings — where certain crosses are provided — we would say that there are political orientations in certain matters, how we will address them and what coalition or coalition parties from us as the government now expect us to address them. When we do this, we only have three, four points in this picture. Together, even as a coalition, we need to talk about it, make professional solutions on our part, properly calibrated them, so that we can see how we imagine it together. Since the fact is that each individual solution has, we can call it, both politically and professionally, a good basis, but we need to look at what this point looks like in the whole system and how we will take other measures. For this reason, just because certain matters under the Coalition Treaty are copied does not mean a solution. That's what we've been alerting you to. I must admit that both Desus and the SAB and other coalition members have already activated themselves in this sense, asking us how they would now do this, what they would do, where they would find good solutions. They also have a lot of ideas about how to do this. And that takes some time. This time can be shorter, I'm sure. However, I must point out that there are five people at the Ministry of Labour in the area of the pension system. We are at this stage of setting up a serious analytical service so that we can make these changes a piece. We are now on the third proposal we are discussing here in the National Assembly. This is me. This is my team. While I am pleased to be seen here, we also need time to do our work, to gather thoughts, to find the right solutions, to come to coalition parties, to say, look here, and this is the opportunity to come up with common solutions that we all stand for, which we think make sense, that they are also financially sustainable, which is what the finance minister often appeals to, and to come up with a correctional social dialogue. Any such proposal, including questions that are focused on what you would do, we keep saying what we will do, and in fact we are so occupied in the final stage that we do not manage to come to realization. I am still asking you here from your place, as well as on behalf of the team, to give us some insight, some understanding and leave us and allow us to come with the solutions that the government imagines, as the coalition imagines, to this national assembly, to introduce them. Of course, you are always welcome with some initiatives, solutions, improvements to proposals to do the best we can. But every thing takes time. Various maneuvers here do not help much or to a large extent stop us. This is also why we have come to the point that I said earlier about the pay phone in the government's position that we will address these matters in the first half of next year. We have quite a lot of work and additional work or in certain cases we could say that we are in a somewhat extraordinary situation also at the expense of many meetings on one subject that I think the coalition has a crystallized view, but we still have to complement certain solutions professionally, as has already been said. There'll be a lot of what you've been saying. Today we are talking about a percentage and some other things. Last time we talked about double status. These are all very difficult topics that we need to make, and therefore we need some peace, some reflection to put them into action and show them to you, and finally prove that we are able to do so. As it is said, in this regard, when it is said, I believe that your suggestions are not malicious or at least so thoughtful. However, I have to respond in this way to tell you what the consequences are for us from an operational point of view, in terms of the efficiency and speed of preparing the proposals that the coalition and also the President of the Government have requested from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Šushmelj has the following word to prepare for Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u32	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, thanks to the bill's proposal for a compliment. This law applied precisely to the content that was most important to Alenka Bratušek in the coalition contract. But the fact that we didn't mean it makes me laugh a little bit, as if we didn't follow the media, and as if we didn't know that there was some increased pressure recently because the state budget didn't put up with it then within the deadline as set out in the coalition contract, that is, December. But in the Alenka Bratusek Party we are constructive and will continue to remain a solid and constructive part of this government. So we've just eaten up the clumps and now you've got strong assurances that these things will be resolved as soon as possible, so that your idea in this subject of stumbling to kill such a bill with the hope of adoption, not nearly as specific as the legislation we had, is, for my understanding, not to say naive, but to get the media attention of the pensioners and nothing else. Alenka Bratusek's party, which was second-guessed, was that we were ascribed. We have no intention of copying anything, our commitment has been the lifting of the pensioner's austerity measures since the beginning. I don't think that's a copy. Eliminating austerity measures. That's it. My colleague Pavšč said exactly that this coordination was for all five parties, although this content was very ours, the SAB Group and we will continue our commitments. So I don't think we can support this bill. In order to support from the opposition something we demanded ourselves, we fought for it, and then suddenly, hops, we gave in. That would be very unusual, kind of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the word, but prepare Moica the Gennidarite. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u34	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague. I'm glad. There are more and more of us who think alike. I have to commend the Government for saying that the representative here said that we can expect a comprehensive solution within 200 days at the latest. Now just please let us count to 200 and then ask where the solution is. It seems that now we will have to ask for the opposition, the right opposition, to impose laws. I've never heard so much criticism in any term of office, why you're making laws, why you're asking for meetings, why you're putting it to rest, etc. Dear Secretary of State, I must tell you, the government will not command this council, not the coalition or the opposition. This is the National Assembly, an autonomous and independent legislative branch of power and pokka. Please don't come up with ideas like that anymore. If you can't do it, give the city to the others who can. Several times I say that the best social policy is the one that makes it possible to develop an economy that allows for new jobs with good wages. The same applies to pension policy. The best pension policy is the one that enables the development of the economy, new jobs with good salaries, because it also provides some guarantee for good pensions. I'm not going to criticize anyone. I'm just going to repeat the numbers. Everyone's gonna see each other by these numbers or they won't see each other. Rule two nines. One nine is nine years old. It is nine years from 2008 to 2017. In 2008, the dose was 67%. In 2017, 58 %, i.e. 9 %, was lower. That's the other nine. In the nine years of the 9% points, a lower dose percentage. Today there was also a mention of a mini pension reform called Visiakova. If I remember correctly, I didn't go to check, but anyone can find a ballot, and I think it was unanimously accepted. Agreed. So the opposition backed up at the time, as this was necessary, otherwise the pension system or the pension box would have been destroyed. And they told us that this sustainability should be there by 2020. We have now intervened in these pension issues in various ways, and I am now afraid that this sustainability will not hold up by 2020. Well, it doesn't, because the percentage goes down. We also have a white book, a question for the Secretary of State, I think it's from April 2016, whether it's still valid or will need to raise some millions again to make a new white book for pensions in the government. At that time, I know that one of the coalition champions got very angry because she came into the light without harmonising first within the coalition, and said that until the end of the pension reform mandate, she would not. Today is not the topic of pension reform, but when we talk about pensions, we have at least two chapters, one of which we are talking about today, with which the government is mainly concerned with how to improve pensions. Of course, the budget burden — how? Secondly, how for generations to come, those who enter the labour market today, is to ensure that they will not be poor when they are retired. Their lives, their lives will be longer than ours, thank God. And this is what the White Paper is supposed to talk about, and we've been doing a lot of work in New Slovenia, making a proposal for a three-stage system, mathematically modeling it with domestic, that is, party, and external experts. This, of course, requires a very deep debate, certainly not just for one day. I didn't like the word crash, because then this same adjective also flies to, yes, the Union of Retired Slovenian Associations. It is true, as my colleague Alex Reberšek said about the speaker, that we met yesterday at the party seat with representatives of the Alliance of Retired Associations, with leadership, at their request, and all of us, colleagues and colleagues, received their material. In these tables myself, in these figures, I have deepened into these models and there is, in fact, something similar to that proposed by colleagues and colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party. I also recommend a thorough reading of this law, which is now under consideration. When does this law come into force? 15th day following its publication in the Official Journal, not in 2019. Something has been said about Zipress 2018–2019 and about the rebalancing 2019 and so on, this law shall enter into force after its publication in the Official Journal, 15 days after that. Now it's interesting what the ZDUS calculated. You can tell him that, ZDUS, he's a hit. ZDUS is not all pensioners, ZDUS is about 205,000, a third, here somewhere, they're in pension societies, and that means within ZDUS. These tables and projections of financial burdens are very interesting. If we look at old-age pensions and look at the example that the dose percentage would increase by 2025 and 2025, increased to 63.5%, for old-age pensions, then this burden for these 6 years from 2020 – 2019 is left alone, the budget is adopted, let's leave, let's start with 2020, let's end with 2025 at 63.5, taking into account new pensioners, of course – a good 96.5 million euros, for 6 years. Let's move on. We must also take into account invalidity pensions and also a percentage of 63.5, a burden of good 12 million for 6 years. Then the widow and family pensions, too, must be processed, in 6 years until 2025 33 million burdens of the state budget. And disability benefits, a good EUR 21.7 million. Or total financial impact from 2020 to 2025 163 million. 163 million, so calculated by the ZDUS or experts they engage or have. And here we are now somewhere together, the coalition treaty, the law of the Slovenian Democratic Party, ZDUS. It is true that we proposed to the leadership of the ZDUS yesterday that they would somehow try to lead – because they were destined to the President of the Government – a joint debate of all political forces in this country to come up with a sustainable pension system that would also provide sustainable and humane pensions, in particular not to deal with the poor, with the brutal poverty among pensioners. It's really cruel when someone's been working so hard, and now they just can't survive their fall life. This is an extremely difficult question, but one day we're gonna have to start. You can decide not to do so in this term, then this story will actually go down. In a way, I am glad that there is now some tension within the coalition – I see it as a positive tension – about the effort that is now better for the pensioners. We will always be on the side of the best. And let's make a system once and for all. Surely we are a special company, a special country, so that some pension systems cannot be imported, not Scandinavian, probably German and so on, not Austrian, but Slovenian. There's so much knowledge here, but let's get started. Let's start today. And please don't tell us that it is now without connection, this debate and so on, I know that there are also some parents here who have children and want to be with them today because it is Miklavžev's evening, but Nova Slovenija did not propose this meeting for today, on Miklavž's evening, but it is also some special symbol of the coalition that wants to eradicate Miklavžev's evening from Slovenian tradition. But that's another topic now. As far as other countries are concerned, look, we would like to at least get closer to our northern neighbours of Austria. If I am looking at the OECD table for 2016, their pension was 91.8 per salary received. We've got 56.7. Therefore, young people do not have a problem changing their residence, those who work in Austria, of course, and prefer to move to Austria, because if they move to Austria, they will get an Austrian pension if they are employed there. As you know, many Austrian companies, companies move their seats or seats, establish their subsidiaries in Slovenia and employ our Slovenian workers in their branches in Slovenia. What does that mean? This means that our workers will receive a Slovenian pension, which is of no interest to them. It's better to have an Austrian pension. I am sure that we know that we have knowledge, and at some point I am confident that we will also be able to achieve so much political will, so much political unity, that we will find good solutions for this extremely important and large part of Slovenian society, which will be bigger every year. First, for those who are now retired, but also for those who are now coming to the labour market, so that in some ways we will encourage young people to be, yes, to save for their age. This, of course, can be done with various tax and other receptions, which the Secretary of State must be very well managed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Before receiving the floor, Mr Bozič, the Secretary of State, shall have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. I'll take advantage of that. We can call it a replica. Since I was a little misunderstood, I would just explain that as an ex- MP, I am very well aware that I am a guest in this house, that it is not at all that I want to tell you, what or how you need to do. All you do is, of course, your legitimate right, is that I somehow tried to point out that we have limited resources and that, of course, all the activities that are taking place within the National Assembly, which is normal, in one way or another, affects our work, the dynamics of our work. I specifically asked for one understanding, that's all. And now I don't know if I understand correctly that we got an offer of 200 days in which we could prepare solutions. If this was on the table, I am happy to accept this, because I think we can prepare solutions at this time that would address at least the most pressing matters addressed by the coalition treaty. You also mentioned whether the white book was valid. Of course it does. This is an expert document, not a political document. There is no need to make a new one, because this discussion, the upgrading of the professional discussion, and then the political debate and discussion in the context of the social dialogue, is still envisaged, there is much to do and to develop these thoughts that we can come up with some solutions that are likely to be more widely accepted, even in this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Now Mrs Mojca Žnidarič has the word, but Joseph Lenart is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. A nice hello to you all! The well-respected opposition, most of what you are proposing today, has been copied from our coalition treaty, and you have also publicly acknowledged this. Usually in school, the copyist was not rewarded, but punished. I want to say that what we have entered into the coalition treaty will certainly be realized in 2019. We might have made it through with the 1st. 1. 2019, but we can't, because we're constantly here, in this room. Today is already the 16th special session. As the Secretary of State has said, your proposed solutions are not appropriate because they do not respect the basic principles of pension and disability insurance. The pension can be paid as much as we have paid as employees or insured persons. With the proposal you are proposing, that all pensions rise to the level of minimum personal income, essentially equalize the payment of those who paid for 15 years and those who paid for the pension allowance for 32 years. If you remember, by 2012 part of the pension was also a protective allowance. It was then paid by SPIZ, and because of the so-called cleansing of this pension box, you are from 1. 1. 2012 this supplement was eliminated. This supplement, a protective allowance, is now being treated as a social protection category and can in fact be applied by all pensioners with low pensions, including those who are disabled, i.e. all who are over 65 years of age or women over 63 years of age. Our government, formerly under the leadership of Dr. Mir Cerar, also changed one matter that was very problematic at the time, that is, that this protective supplement had been written or the label had been made. Now up to the amount of the property 120 thousand this protective allowance is not marked and can be used or invested by all those who have as low pensions as you list them. For the last time, there was also a dilemma about very low-income pensions. Everyone has this option, but it is true that it depends on this property, which is worth €120,000, as I said, then it does not book, otherwise a record is made. About the annual allowance. Indeed, in the coalition contract we have foreseen two different levels of the annual supplement, what you have now copied, but later coordination between coalition partners has led to the fact that it is more fair to have five classes. This has also provided an additional 18 million. The amount of the planned annual allowance has risen from 122 million to 140 million and, therefore, for these five classes we assume that they are more fair, because the transitions between these classes are milder. There's not one big leap, but there's more downpasses. In addition, there are three additional classes for beneficiaries of disability benefits. So where does this year's allowance come from? The practice so far has always been that the annual allowance was regulated in Zippers and not in Zpiz's legislation, and it is already agreed and already included, both regular and extraordinary harmonisation of pensions. Our coalition contract also provides for a normally gradual increase of 63%, as you said. Of course, not everything can be written in the coalition contract, but in our idea it is not only to raise the dose percentage only to those who have exactly 40 years of retirement, but to arrange and harmonise for all others, that is, from 15 years forward, to settle this dose percentage to be slightly higher and fairer. Of course, we also have in our coalition contract that we will arrange widow's pensions to raise them. You forgot to rewrite that. We'll sort everything out, just give us a little bit more time and actually it'll be more systematic than you're assuming right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Ms. Magi's proposer. Carmen Furman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. The representative of the government says that coalition parties today have a clear view of this topic, namely how to regulate the situation of pensioners. Now that I have heard this debate, I do not think that their view is so clear. It's already stuck in the regression for 2019. What stabbed me the most is also the fact that Alenka Bratušek, a colleague of the Party today, admitted that our proposals support the content and that they stand for them, but that they will not support them, because what it would look like now that they would support the opposition's proposals. They would be supported in substance or not because they were not proposed by the right party. That is exactly what I have already said, that it is obviously important today, who is proposing something, not what is proposed. How did it get stuck in the regulation of the regression for 2019 itself? You yourself have entered into a coalition contract to arrange a regular annual pension allowance of two amounts in the following year. In the end, you arranged it in five different income classes. The fact is that the party Desus insisted on paying the allowance of pensioners in the fifth grade, while the party Alenka Bratusek advocated payment in the two classes, as we propose today with this amendment of the law. Why so? Maybe she'll clear it up for you. That's because if you did it in two classes, it would cost you a total of 178 million euros, and now that you've settled in five, it's worth 140 million euros. So you've put 38 million euros back together, and that's on the pensioners. So you're not done saving on the pensioners' shoulders, you're saving on them for the rest of your life. Dear colleague representative of the government, your optimistic prediction that you will be able to arrange everything systematically in the first half of next year – I really hope that indeed, but, you know, it is stuck in the first regulation, in the regulation of the pensioner's regression.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Before he gets the word announced by Joseph Lenart, he has a replica of Mr Andrej Šushmelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u42	Thank you, Madam President. I have to give the replica because it's hard to understand why you won't support our proposal for a law after you've basically admitted that you took these contents from us. I said that they are poorly prepared, inconsistent, and what you showed below, when you mentioned the differences between the client Desus and the differences between the views of Alenka Bratušek, you showed that you are looking for differences between the parties. Look, this is none of your business. You are looking for possible weak points and you are trying to get rich with this proposal. That's perfectly legitimate. I'm not among those who would say anything, but I don't understand why you should now be dealing with coordination between Desus and Alenka Bratusek. It's a little unusual for me. Leave it to the coalition, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u43	Thank you. Now he has the word, Mr Joseph Lenart, and he must prepare himself for Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear guests from the Ministry, distinguished fellow Members, fellow Members! I believe that it is the duty of every Member, a Member, to protect its citizens and to advocate not being on the verge of survival, to ensure that all age groups do not live in poverty. Especially should we not forget pensioners. For pensioners and pensioners, this is a principle of reciprocity, whereby we ourselves will one day receive the only income for survival. Today, it is right to put ourselves in the role of our pensioner, to put ourselves in the role of those with the lowest pensions, and to try for a month to survive with a sum such as their benefits, so that we can understand their distress better. Here's what I'm gonna say. We hear that the Government does not support the content of the bill – I know we are repeating ourselves – but it is pursuing its objectives. Unfortunately, as long as our poor pensioners are just pursuing the goal of heating up in the coming months, we are not on the right track. Let's make sure they don't freeze us first. From the statistical review of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, it is estimated that the average pension is over €600, most of which is about 100,000, and between €500 and €600. Frankly, there are not many such amounts of pensions in my constituency on the edge of Ptuj. Much more is said of the amounts between 300 and 500 euros, a miserable pension. Actually, I'm gonna say, we're here a little slow. We, as well as the Slovenian Democratic Party, have always advocated ensuring that pensioners have at least the right to survival as guaranteed to those receiving financial social assistance. That is why, of course, I support the amendments that we are making today and, of course, I also appeal to all those present to support us in such good proposals as this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The following is Mr Franz Jurša and Mr Franz Breznik is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u46	Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! Perhaps I would start by saying, because there were quite a few thoughts expressed about the regulation or regular coordination of pensions, the regular coordination of pensions is enshrined in the Pension and Disability Insurance Act 2, according to a formula we wrote at the time, 60% after salary growth and 40 after inflation. I must say that the social partners have also agreed to do so, and of course, that is in some way true to me. You know, when I hear it's an ice cream chip, I can't agree. It's not about the big money. More should be given to the pensioner because they need more and deserve to live a decent autumn of life, but if we go to look at coordination next year, I can say that 2.8% will be regular coordination and 1.5 extraordinary coordination. This means total harmonisation of 4.3%, which is in some ways €320, we are talking about the average pension if we add a regress to the average pension is €617. That's what it says, it's for one more pension, so it's not exactly ice cream. You know, in 2012, we didn't coordinate pensions, and we also wanted them, because we somehow realized that it was just so difficult at the time, and it was somehow understood. But it is true that we have made a reform that we have actually supported in the National Assembly, but you know, no pension reform brings anything positive to people, frankly. And for every reform we do, we will be looking for money; because there is not enough money in the pension register, it must co-finance the budget from its treasury. But we also know what made this happen. If someone who wrote to Rob did not change some things in 1997, then it would probably be enough money for the pension fund to pay pensions this year, next year and perhaps another year. I am very pleased, I must admit that everyone, including everyone here in the National Assembly, all the parliamentary groups, defends the interests of the pensioners. On the basis of these views, I expect that, in the coming years, we will settle these matters smoothly. The sustainability of the pension system, which we adopted in 2012, is expected by 2020, some even predict that it is possible by 2022. We're going to have to change this thing, it's perfectly clear to me, but some people say we have to be careful about this, and we're just gonna be shaking hands. I remember in 2012. At the time someone formed the government, and the discussions were significantly different when you were in the coalition, and today when you were in the opposition. That makes sense. When you're in the government, you have to follow the sustainability of the system, so we've adopted a fiscal rule. But when you're in the opposition, you can just talk more and pretend to understand people more. I don't know if that's true. You know, I don't personally oppose the goals you set in this law and in the previous three. But somehow I cannot give the green light to the continuation of this debate, because of this, simply and simply, because I feel that it is not a good purpose. Now I'm gonna tell you why I feel that way. You know what? I have a feeling that by this law you wish to block the law on the implementation of the budget in some way for the following year, which means twelve for us. And if you want to, even if you want to work, simply a hybrid along with Zippers and Zpiz II, the proposal you made is not possible, because you both went on different paths to the National Assembly. That's what we say. We can't even do that. I remember well how in the last term we wanted to correct injustice in our parliamentary group – I will not mention Desus too many times, because sometimes I get a little upset when I hear that in each other's sentence the party you're a member of – we then prepared a proposal for a law that we wanted to correct the injustice that happened during a period when pensions did not match by 7.2%. And you know what happened? Someone introduced the law, didn't even write the contents of the law, just the title of the law, and we were simply before the fact that we couldn't deal with the matter because this law stopped us when we were being treated, and then the resignation of the President of the Government took place, and our law was not adopted, and we simply couldn't give back or give back to the pensioners in some way what they lost. If we're looking at extreme coordination. We know that, as far as 3% of the gross social product is concerned, pensions will be coordinated by 1% as far as 4% is concerned, then by 1.5 and at 2% is 5% of the social gross product. I hope that economic growth in the future will also go at a pace such as has been so far, despite the fact that it is realistic to expect that there will be something lower, but that pensions will actually be co-ordinated, and this is crucial, since in this way, if pensions are to be co-ordinated extremely, then we can actually replace this percentage, which I mentioned a little earlier, that is 7.2% of the shortfall that pensioners have not received. It is also crucial for us that future pensioners receive 63% of the average pension salary. And we have already addressed a letter to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities asking them to prepare this matter as soon as possible, and at the same time we have asked them to prepare a proposal for the coordination or regulation of widow's pensions as soon as possible, as you know, with 15% as far as it is now, at 25%. Of course, these are not all the issues that need to be addressed, there are still a number of issues that need to be settled in this title, and I am sure that, with the common will and common interests, unless, of course, there is a lie here today, we will manage these matters in the future so that our pensioners, ours, all of us, will live their fall of life better.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Since Mr Breznik is not in the Chamber, he has the floor of the next debater, Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. Today we are discussing an obviously very important topic that affects almost every Slovenian family, one way or another, perhaps every time a lot of us. I think there must be some serious debate, although we are having a second debate on the pension law this week. A few days ago, we had a proposal to correct some of the injustices that were evident when some of them, although the legal basis was that the marriage was a legal basis, were paid into the pension register, so to speak, bought back years, could not then apply when they retired. These people are about 55,000. With one proposal, Han arranged for a narrow crowd of thousands in the previous term, and 55,000 remained to be played. It's unfair that you rejected the bill last week. You knew of our solution because the law had been introduced before, and you did not write this law on the implementation of the budget in order to correct these people's injustice. The second part, when we also considered a few days ago, was for farmers who had not even been insured for a long time because they were characterized as dolls, as a social group that was unwanted in socialism or communism. Later this changed slightly, but they allowed some minimum insurance under two criteria. Even for these people, although all those involved in the pension system know that their constitutional rights have been violated even after the Yugoslav Constitution, you are not yet ready to admit, to correct, because it is obviously still a category that is ideologically undesirable. We now have a new solution before us, which, I must say, is not the original authorship of our member of the group, but what you wrote down in your coalition contract. We copied those parts that were covered inside, just like you wrote them in a coalition contract. All those criticisms, respected fellow Members of the coalition and also of the Left, which you have directed against the SDS, that the proposal is incomplete, mean that your coalition contract is worthless. You, whether you are aware or not, have criticised the solution of your coalition agreement. So, what you wrote down when you signed this solemnly, this coalition agreement, you have page seven and page eight, you wrote stupidity. And now you've made that public every time you criticize what we wrote in this law. Once we have proposed any further solution to your coalition agreement, which will gladly happen, you will once again talk about how bad our SDS proposal is. Not bad. We know that your proposal is bad, but now you have discovered that you are basically one parade, one bluff, one talking about cooperation, and so on and so on, when one thing is needed, we even propose your solution, and it is said that it is non-systematic, incomplete and so on and so on. You have gone in your coalition treaty, honourable fellow Members, even so far as you have written down the month and year when these solutions, which are written here in this law, will literally apply. For some items it says 1 January 2019, for some January 2019, I have three measures here, all three are equipped with a date. If you had been so good that you had drafted a law on budget implementation, it would have been easy for these three, these four solutions that we have written in our law, to write in the law on budget implementation if you had a serious intention to do something on pensions. When you signed a coalition contract last summer, it seemed extremely far away, but if you don't work, if you don't think, if you don't prepare, those months that look very far come quickly, and when you have to put something on the table, when you have to provide people with what you promised, it's not. Whether the problem is the Ministry of Labour with the Minister, the Secretary of State and so on or whether you are Members of the coalition parties and do not follow what you have written in the coalition contract, that is another question. But in this case, it's an obvious mockery of people, of citizens, and so on. In short, it is hard to say here that we have done anything wrong — you have a bad coalition contract. Since you are such experts – there are some in your 50 ’ s, and you missed it – I am surprised that you are able to make some serious reform. In fact, I'm going to be very surprised, let it be social, let it be pensions, let it be anything, to expect you to make some serious development papers with holes like this, as you wrote in the coalition contract, is illustrative. I don't know how you could have missed these bad solutions in the coalition contract and written them in. Five representatives of coalition parties were happily photographed with a coalition agreement. Five representatives, all presidents. And then they coordinated it with Levi. We have suggested this well that at least now we have learned which coalition party has proposed solutions for this coalition agreement. Every time one of the coalition Members comes forward to discuss this law, he just says how many more people you've fucked, even with what you've just proposed. Interesting. Instead of 180 million it's going to be 140, instead it's going to be so much less and so on. In your law on the implementation of the budget – which you have submitted after us, independently, we have already had our own law put in place – you have, to remind you only, dedicated to the extraordinary coordination of pensions just as much as you gave money to establish a new budget for civil society. This is for those civil society groups that will be implementing the agenda of this coalition on the streets. What you have set out for the extraordinary coordination of pensions is 7 million, what you have set aside for the development of civil society with the budget fund is 6 million. Let me tell you the logic. We're saving people who are socially disadvantaged, who have social distress, and you're playing and throwing money for some groups that are superstandard, if I may say. Why? Civil society can also be financed in another way; it does not necessarily come from the budget, because then they are government services. If I put it so simplistically, if the Government finances civil society, it is a government civil society or, according to home, even not to say, an authority almost in the composition of a government if you provide it with 100% funding, no matter how you hide it, and so on. I think the bluff you've written here in this law on budget implementation is just to be revealed. Another interesting thing is that you will reduce 16 million to harmonise transfers to individuals and households, there is another social category. You're going to give 6 million pensioners for extraordinary coordination, and you're going to take 16 million for, I don't know, scholarships, child support, and I don't know what other social transfers. Do you see any logic here? From one vulnerable group that needs some kind of state aid, you will take, give another, and in the meantime you will lose another 10 million. Just for that civil society, it's gonna get lost. Do you think these movements that you've put into the law on budget implementation are logical? I'm just asking. The leaders of the parliamentary groups are here, tell me if this makes sense to you. Is this move such a social measure normal? That one group that needs money, so that, I don't know, educates their children and so on, you take and give one third of that one, and the other part to civil society groups that then, some officials, members of the Left do a fifth job? Does that make sense to you? It seems to me that the budget changes, as you have written in the law on the implementation of the budget, the fools, the incorrect, unfair and demeaning both to pensioners who do not get anything with this extraordinary coordination, but to those whom you have taken from them. Let's get one more thing straight. You have now given this guaranteed aid to the unemployed at the rate of 392,75 euros. You've calculated on the second decimal exactly how much they need. This is for someone who does a little bit of technique, unusual – to calculate some social transfer on average to another decimal point. Then it is possible to adjust the percentages and the valorisation so that it can occur, but to set up 392,75 euros at the start, which is a little unusual. This is only possible if some professors or students with FDV appear upstairs and do so. Now I'm going to remind you of something. This social transfer or raise for these unemployed amounts to more than €95 per month. If we extrapolate this to 1 year, to 12 months, you have raised this social aid to this group of unemployed people for more than a thousand 100 euros. Many of them have not paid the euro, but we have more than 75,000 pensioners according to the Government, more than 22,000 of them in the 30-40-year working age category with a lower pension than this social transfer. A small pension. Now, as the heads of the parliamentary groups, explain to me if it makes sense for you that this has been done, that, I don't know, 20,000 unemployed people have been burned by nothing, satisfied, submerged under this level of social welfare of 75,000 pensioners. Look at the data, the answer to my question to my question to the government, the answer came on November 15th, this is the first question, this is exactly what was structured after working age. If you deal with problems like this, I don't know, pensioners, social beneficiaries and so on, so that you can only solve the target groups, as with the change in redemption for those thousands of people, as Han suggested, whether for these few thousand unemployed without working time and not solving the other social groups, then nothing fair will ever happen in this country. Nothing fair. And since you're doing this on a horace, we give one group a hand, we give it a thousand 100 euros a year, that means 2 – not to say – minimum wages of profits or 5 of these small pensions to someone who is unemployed, and the one who has them and can't get them anymore is not entitled to that amount. That's how these systems don't work. Now you're telling us with your finger that we're working non-systemically. What was that law, 392,75 euros, systemic or non-systematic? What Han suggested, systemic or non-systemic? Thousands were drawn out and 55,000 were left in the hole. [[advertising from the hall]] Look, we proposed a solution last week, you turned her down. That's all I'm asking you is how you do it. As for the dose percentage, the following. You know, I was wondering where you would invest your savings, like if you could choose. In a fund like a pension box where you get out 54% or 63%, or maybe you put in a fund where you get 105% or 110% out? The problem with this system is that it loses a lot, and I think there is something that needs to be done here. This percentage should, as you suggested, be raised on 1 January. You can fix another article like that in Zippers, and you can fix it. I think it's more than reasonable for you to do this. People expect that from you. I think it's time for you to go to this game and make a promise and then you go away and then you coordinate, and then you fight four times, and you sell it to people like a story about some hard work and so on, a lost story. What you said to the SAB representatives and now I don't know who else in this debate means that this part of your coalition contract will not be implemented and implemented. It won't, because you're going to keep these fight circles and leave people there in high expectations. But in the end, there'll be nothing. Nothing's gonna happen. We've been in this policy system for so long, we know nothing will happen. Once he has one appetite on one side, the other would have saved it slightly differently, only so much that nothing can be aroused to feel how much work is done. Nothing was done at that time! Nothing at all. If you had a serious intention and if you have written down, I do not know, in July in the coalition agreement, to be resolved in January, this is the first priority of the President of the Government and the Ministry and the leaders of the coalition parliamentary groups, who are monitoring the work of the Government. We're doing this and we're being criticised for doing this. And you're saying you're going to solve this on your own. You're not going to save anything. Even if we alert you to the problem of putting your solution on the table, because you're not able to write it yourself into the pension law, then you're saying that we don't know what to do, to tease, to block Zippers and so on. We're not blocking anything. We are doing our parliamentary work, doing what is proper, and proposing useful solutions. If you've assessed them to be inappropriate, then they won't be in your pension law or in Zippers or in any kind of a solution. In no case will this happen and happen. Here are some of you who have spent some time in the National Assembly talking about the abuse of procedure, that we have done something and abused the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, we have applied the procedure required to propose laws. If anything were wrong, I told you two days ago, the President of the National Assembly, or whoever signed it, would have initiated the procedure of this law, he wouldn't have done it. Because the services of the National Assembly look at each law according to all parameters, and if the law does not meet the conditions, they reject it and go to supplementation. That's right, government services? Here. And now all those who have your mouth full of abuse, look at your coalition contract and ask yourself if you have abused anything because you have not done something out of a coalition contract and respected the dates and solutions that you have written yourself. You made an abuse because you didn't realize it. I hope that there will be no future situations of excellence, as has been the case with this law today. Try, take your papers into your hands and at least what you wrote down, even though you didn't write much, but what you did, do. If not, we will suggest your solutions instead and then we will walk here and find out how suitable someone is for what function, how much someone works, how much someone follows and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The next discusser is Yuri Leprechaun, and prepare Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u50	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Given that I belong to Desus, it is only right that I have a little discussion in general. In the first phase, I would say that my colleagues in the SDS are sure or that they know that if they accepted me for something to happen, a lot of things would go wrong. This is not important now, it is important that we are new Members, and it is also right that we do not respond to what you have talked about before. This is probably the only right thing to do now with our heads thinking about how we would do it. For us, it was essential that in amending legislation there should be the fact that, by improving the conditions for one population group, we do not wrong the other half of the population. In the SDS party, you must have a lot of knowledge, a lot of knowledge, but my feeling is that it's probably not the basic thing that led to the adoption of the law, as you've just proposed, but that it's a bit of a habit here. Nothing wrong. This is a legitimate thing in parliamentary democracy. But if we had said it before, as well as the representative of the Government, Mr Tillen Bozič, who is actually here every day with us, if we had agreed and agreed that the coalition would prepare this story in a half year's time in the following year, as it is written in this Treaty, why not believe him or believe us? But there are a few thorns within the coalition – that is normal! People are different and it can also happen that with some arguments that we have proposed to others or others, some idea that is written changes. But the goal is important. The goal is to improve the conditions for older people, for pensioners. The only thing to stress is that we are only aware of the need to take care of social support when amending pension legislation, says we must do a lot of things in a set, so we use the word of a system solution all the time. You were preparing a pension law in 2012, you know how many problems there were. It's not that easy to get a story to drink water. I personally believe that this proposal that you have made now, if you agree, can also be made personally by the Government and the coalition – you have your share, why not? I'll stand up for it, and that's how much the opposition's share is. Why should we have a problem here if it's a good marriage? But now, at this point, you're way ahead of us. It's nothing wrong, but you've gone too far so that all of our agreements are not covered, and now people can understand one way or another, whether they believe me or believe you, or believe him, in short, believe me that the coalition, the party Desus, and above all I personally work with good intentions, with my heart, knowing that we're going to get it through. But it will never be as if anyone thought everything would be perfect. We must take care of the whole matter in our Slovenia, including pensioners. Minimum wage, guaranteed income, poverty threshold, that's all the things that limit us in solutions to be able to say, yeah, that's all we're going to do. So, with this story that you've proposed, it's only a problem for me personally that it doesn't solve everything. As I said, it's important for us to save the system, and yes [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me? My friend got a little confused. I thought I was running out of time. Thanks for the heads-up, but I heard the screams. As I said, it is important for us to do this, and believe me that together with the coalition with the Government, we will prepare this law with the Ministry of Labour by mid-2019.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Maša Kociper, to prepare Jerca Korča.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! It's been nine hours since we started this meeting of the National Assembly today, and we've been talking about this same subject for the last few hours. However, since there are probably voters in front of the screens and we are probably talking to voters who have not been accompanying the entire session, I might briefly sum up what we are talking about these last few hours. It is about the fact that today's proposed SDS party, with co-signatory, has signed a part of the coalition contract and now wants to be confirmed by the coalition's prescribed part of the coalition contract. In doing so, they prevent us from being a friendly and very constructive opposition, which only helps us to realize our coalition commitments, which they themselves seem to be unable to carry out. So that they are kind, they copy our solutions and propose them to us for confirmation. At the same time, this same party says that the solutions that we wrote in the coalition contract are total nonsense and that they are stupid and what we wrote down, we are actually stupid to suggest that this is a written solution, which is stupid, that they would confirm. This is one such summary for those who have not followed us so far, and I think it is clear to everyone, including those who have not been present, that this is another speculation. Is the work of the opposition legitimate or not? Opinions were different here. It can also be legitimate. It can also be legitimate for the opposition to copy the coalition's proposals and force the coalition to confirm them early at some of its pace. Maybe that's legitimate. But perhaps as we may think it is legitimate or not, we can also think that it is questionable that the opposition dictates to us, when and how we will accept something. If they had their own government, if they had their own ministries and their ministers, you would dictate when and at what pace and how and by what law they will adopt, and so do others. However, the most important thing for me today is that we have received clear assurances from the Government and from other coalition Members that the commitments enshrined in the coalition treaty will be fulfilled. So said State Secretary Tilen Bozič: "The solutions that will address this issue will be prepared by the Government and incorporated into future changes to pension legislation in a more comprehensive and equitable way, with prior coordination both within the coalition and with the social partners. You can expect this in the first half of next year.” This assurance is most important for us who are sitting here, because, indeed, some of these commitments have been proposed by the Party of Alenka Bratušek in the coalition contract. Why? Alenka Bratušek was not in the coalition in the previous term, as you may recall, but she was in the opposition, and as you would like to see in the opposition, many people turn to you with their problems and ask for help. In a very large number, the average number has been turned to our client by the people who have asked us to pursue the solutions that are before us today in the future. In this way and such solutions are represented by their ZDUS association. Perhaps they also turned to our party because Alenka Bratušek was right during her government, the one who corrected the injustices that had previously been done to the pensioners by another coalition led by John Janša, as well as the solutions that were then found to be unconstitutional. Maybe that's why, I don't know. In any case, our client wanted to be right to these people, and because we are aware that as a small party we cannot save everything and everyone, we have proposed some solutions in the coalition contract that we can stand for, and these are also mentioned among them. If that's what anyone thinks of us, it's fine. But it also bothers me to talk a little bit insulting about the pensioners, but that this is a battle for the pensioners, and that pensioners are not only one of them, but of all of them – they are absolutely of all of them and absolutely I see my client as a customer who advocates for a better life for everyone in our country, but, as you say, if you are aware of your range, you cannot save everything, and we have just set ourselves as a priority something that people most often turn to us. We wanted to do this, we tried to stick to the agreed deadlines. It has been explained to us why this is not possible, and as a constructive partner of this coalition, we have taken this decision, of course, to continue to work together, and we hope that these commitments that have been made will indeed be fulfilled, which we will also be vigilant about. All this talk about pensioners and so on is really a little insulting, but it is also true that pensioners are, in view of the solutions offered by this government, now the ones where there is still some small savings left, and it must be concluded that not only they will remain dry, if we say so. Whether the opposition's conduct is constructive or not, I've already talked about it. Perhaps I would just add that the constructive and responsible opposition is thinking about some financial frameworks that are sustainable for the country. The easiest thing to do is to be an opposition, to propose this and that, and not take responsibility for where that money comes from. However, since before me a fellow Member has talked a lot about where the money would be taken and what it could be given to do, I would also recall one small thing in this regard. Days ago, at the College of the National Assembly, we discussed laws to be adopted by emergency procedure. Among other things, due to the provisions of the Constitutional Court, the issue of so-called deleted should also be settled, as the decision of the Constitutional Court, which repealed one of the articles, will no longer limit the compensation in these cases. The coalition proposed a legal solution that would limit interest at least. We are absolutely in favour of getting a fair compensation erased. It wasn't us sitting here on the right side, in that government that did the basic wrong that made us ashamed of the rest of Europe and that is still casting a black mark on our country. This stain was saved by law, part of this law was now repealed, so it is, and only in this part to limit interest, we wanted to cut down on a law that should be adopted by emergency procedure. As the proponents have said, this would amount to EUR 53 million of additional money which could be in these proceedings due to unlimited interest on trials. 53 million means quite a few pensions that the SDS party and others spoke about at previous meetings, for the rural population and for everyone else. And you didn't think that was necessary. It may not be, it may be criminal, it may also deserve unlimited interest, but the solution offered is legal, it would allow fair compensation, while limiting interest, which, according to the length of judicial proceedings and the duration of the first event, could go into millions. And here we could save 53 million, but you didn't want to. This opportunity is not yet missed. I think there's gonna be another option, and then I'm counting on you to support this solution. I conclude this implementation today by giving us at the Alenka Bratušek Party certificates both at the Government and at the National Assembly from our coalition partners, to insist on a common commitment that these problems of pensioners will be resolved further, as agreed. I mean, we're actually going to delay the dates a little bit, but the solutions will be, and that was repeated today. And that's what matters most to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Right away, Mr. Guilty. Mr Franc Jurša first submitted a procedural proposal. Let's hear your proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u54	I'll be very brief, but still, I think some things need to be pointed out. Just for a little while, one more time. Since there was no reconciliation of pensions during the year of Alenka Bratušek’s reign, this means that in some ways the damage was done to the pensioners. And the next thing, I have to say, if it wasn't for that time [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u55	Mr. Jursha, I'm sorry. What's the procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u56	I'll make a suggestion in the end. In view of the fact that there was no Social Democratic bloc, the Minister, the then shoving minister in the government of Alenka Bratušek, would reduce pensions by 10%.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u57	Mr Jurša, I ask you not to discuss this in a procedural proposal, but to state your procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u58	Let me tell you. My proposal, Madam Vice-President, is that you follow the debate closely in the future and remind the debate to give accurate information.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u59	Mr Jurša, I believe you know that I am up here to hold a procedural session, not to comment on the substantive debates of Members. Now Mr Krivec has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. My procedural proposal will be addressed to a colleague. I would like to remind her that the college does not decide on the content of the laws, here she has already talked about how someone voted and how it defined itself, but at the college we only decide on the procedure. And we on this side, as it was said, did not reject any law. We have noted that this urgent procedure, which has been proposed, is not necessary in this case, because the Government had eight months to process it. In view of the fact that they have always been a complication in solving this problem, we propose or are in the position that such legislation is adopted in a normal manner, not as an emergency, because there is no emergency for this. Please inform your colleague that the college does not decide on the content of the law. I think that's the right procedural thing to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u61	Thank you for your proposal, but this was not a procedural proposal. As you know, the Rules of Procedure refer to the proposal for a procedure relating to the application of the Rules of Procedure rather than to the substantive debate of the debaters. The following is Mrs Jerca Korča, and as the last panellist to be prepared by Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u62	President, thank you very much for your word. We note that these fishes are getting hotter and more and more customers, including opposition customers, want to interfere in this pond. But I would like us to start treating this not as a pond, not as a fish, and not to fight for it, but to take it as a responsibility, because we will all be on it sooner rather than later. You're one, you're one more, and one of us has a long way to go. But we have grandma's house, we have grandparents at home, and maybe I really look at this a little differently. And all right, today the opposition has decided to file this. We all know why she decided to invest. This can be difficult for the public to present because these procedural business matters are not understandable to the public, but fine. In this place, it would be at least disgraceful of me not to admit and congratulate you for having prepared a good proposal and for me to be happy to support it, just as I would gladly support the many who are sitting here because you are pursuing the right goal. The fact is that you have drawn this out of our coalition contract and that the president of your party or the party's proposal has also admitted that this coalition contract is 80% good. And that's true; it's hidden in this 20%. This is as follows: that your proposal follows non-systemic solutions, that you lack a basic understanding that this government will work for 4 years and that this coalition agreement will be linked to a four-year mandate and that ad hoc will not be responsible for the adoption of 3 such solutions tomorrow, and that every measure, regardless of how serious you have or even have a degree of seriousness to implement and realize, is meaningfully aligned with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and so on. And you haven't coordinated this or you're not even part of the government. It is certainly your legitimate right to make laws that you have complementary laws, but nevertheless again: your basic purpose here is not to solve pressing issues, but is to block Zippers. We've heard this a number of times today, and that's the only truth that exists here. Let's be honest that you don't bring us some nuts that you can rub together on the table, even if they look light on your first eye, they're peeing. Throw us some nuts, we'll be happy to reject them. In view of this pre-emptive time that is coming, I believe that after the end of the four-year term, we will all be able to eat the inspiration together. Now I was thinking from the fishes to the paths [[…]] There's something else I'd really like to say in this place. What the Secretary of State has said is, in my opinion, the key, although he has described so vividly with these dots and with this connection, and that is precisely what the Ministry has in mind, is preparing solutions on a daily basis, meeting with customers and coordinating matters. And these things that you propose in this law will come into practice, I believe. However, if any matter is different from that of the coalition contract — because you like to hang around this coalition contract — there will be a reason that we have found a better solution in the meantime. Just like we found her at two, five, six, seven. We've found that five classes are more fair, and that's the point. When we wrote the coalition contract, we had no insight into the public finances, we had no insight into it, even if you say now that the reconstruction of the government and that we knew it all in one way or another – this is an argument that you constantly use. But now that we have this insight, the ministries will start preparing solutions and we will be watching to get these things into practice as quickly as possible, but there is no need to constantly waste time on one of the extraordinary fairs they are taking, as the Secretary of State has already said, time and energy. If you have your ideas – your ideas – you will bring them in and we will discuss them, but you do not need to copy our coalition contract. You obviously lack your own ideas in this case, because ours on the one hand are bad, on the other hand you copy them and invest them in the procedure. Patience — and these things will also be seen by the light of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u63	Thank you. The proposer wants a word. Mag. Carmen Furman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to thank my colleague Korca for commending our proposal. We have come one step closer, because now, as I see it, you, too, from the coalition, agree that this proposal of the novel today is good, that it follows the right goals you have already said, and now you have even discovered that, after all, this is the content of your coalition agreement. The colleague was not in at the time when I quoted this page of your 9 coalition agreement, which speaks of the amount of the dose rate and how you will pay the annual allowance for the future, which you yourself set for on 1 January 2019. You have written in your coalition contract that you will begin to implement these measures with effect from 1 January 2019. Now it's a little bit off-limits, but I don't know how to explain this position of yours right now that we're putting pressure on you with our timeline. [[…]] You set your hands and limits. Perhaps, after all, there is this additional reason for hiring additional staff and secretaries in the government. As for the five classes, as you said you will pay for the regress in the following year, it is not a more fair proposal, it is a cheaper proposal. For in this way you will again impal 38 million on pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u65	Thank you, proposer. The replica has Mrs. Jerca Korce. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u66	Thanks, buddy. Please, you were also not in this National Assembly at the time, but if you were to stick to or your colleagues in the SDS of any coalition contracts, I would not be driving past Log toll station in 2016/2017 and still have houses there. I read your coalition contract, too. Read your coalition contracts. Comrade Krivec, start reading your coalition contracts. I've read them very thoroughly, from independence to today. A variety of solutions would have been different if they had been implemented. That's the way it is. The truth hurts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u67	Thank you. Please, everyone, just calm down. We have the last of the panellists to report. Mr. Marian Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. It is really funny when we listen to debates by Members or also by Members who simply do not have a clean one when someone was in power. That's what I think is funny. Such Members and Members would be nice to take some time to read the document and then discuss it. Now let's go back to our proposal. After what I have heard today, because I have listened very attentively to everyone who was here — practically I have been in the National Assembly all along — one conclusion which is mine and certainly holds, you have always tried to convince us that the coalition is more important to you than people. That's what's worrying. This is what concerns me and the Slovenian Democratic Party that have tabled this bill. If this goes any further, the people will remain barefoot; and I will not say anything else. Among other things, I have heard that it has been said in the debate of the previous debate that patience is needed. Dear Members, people have enough patience. Can't live with patience. How can you explain to us when you had a government for four years in the past, you have all the people, from the President of the Government, ministers and so on, state secretaries at the Ministry of Finance and so on, that you didn't have the right data, that you couldn't react in time and so on? I think it's funny that this goes beyond every limit of some communication that should take place here when we are talking specifically about certain things. Every excuse I've heard today has, in my personal opinion, been attracted to hair. First of all, from this law, which we have tabled, where we have stated your commitments, it is clear that we want to help the most vulnerable groups of pensioners and pensioners and that we are trying to step together, I have also asked you in the position of the Group of Members to come together. If you've already proposed one good thing in the coalition contract and then the opposition gives you the opportunity to file this law, if you're not in time, then I don't think we have any problems. Then we are in front of a hundred percent consensus that we are helping those people we are talking about, those groups we are talking about. And these are pensioners who usually stay alone, whether they're women or men, with one pension, 260, 320, 460 euros in pension, or stay in a village in a house that they can't sell, can't go anywhere, and with this pension, let any of you tell me if you can survive. Not to mention Maribor, these places in Styria, Slovenian Mountains, from the environment where I come from, where it is quite poor, where many people who live below the threshold of poverty, many people who have difficulty starting the month and ending. Even more problematic is the fact that a large number of pensioners have worked long hours and receive pensions that are unworthy of them, which are unacceptable, which are easily below each level. And if we do not all have this interest together to solve this problem in such a way that, after the crisis has passed, these people, too, come to this point so that they can normally survive from month to month, then I do not know whether it is fair and fair that such parliamentary groups who oppose it are sitting here today in the National Assembly. Despite the fact that you claim to be great, those who favour you for the social state and so on, at the end of today virtually all parliamentary groups, except the opposition parties of the Left, I must say, but here it was honest, you are opposed to this law, which has the content that you have written down in the coalition treaty. And you made a commitment to do two key things by 1 January 2019. On the basis of the information I'll read you again, 2nd and 3rd points, prevention of poverty among pension recipients, measures. And you wrote the second paragraph: “The rate of 40 years of retirement will be gradually determined at least 63%, at the same time a higher percentage of child care will be recognised. The implementation of the measure is foreseen as of January 2019.” That's what you wrote in your coalition contract. Secondly: “We will set an annual allowance at two different levels, namely 80% of the lowest pension for the full pension of those who receive a pension less than the minimum pension for the full pension period, and 50% for those who receive more than the lowest pension for the full pension period. The implementation of the measure is foreseen as from 1 January 2019." Your Honor, if you've written this down, if you've made a public commitment to people, to pensioners and pensioners, then this should mean something. How can we now trust you again in what we have heard from the words of the SAB — that the government has given us assurances? Yeah, what kind of assurances? Four years from now? What assurances if you do not adhere to the basics that you have entered into the coalition contract? How can anyone else believe you? And then you try to insult us or attack us with this argument that's far below the level – to try to break the coalition, to convince you that we're not doing anything to stop you from working and so on. Once again, at the age of four, you have a new government now for six months. It's four and a half years, and you haven't done, look, so much [[shows with gesture]] except that you have done harm to this country and to citizens and citizens. That's what you did! Now I will tell you two things only – the second track, there we could save 300, 400 million, and not talk about the sale of the Ljubljana Bank, again 400 million. So figure out how much money that is. What could we do with this money for the pensioners instead of going into the pockets of thieves, thieves, and these corrupt tycoons in our country?Oh, my God! What could we do with that money?Oh, my God! And then someone from the parliamentary group, I think, Mira Cerar says that if we took into account the proposals made by the Slovenian Democratic Party, the state budget would be burdened by a billion euros. Only these two things that I said, in addition to everything else, could do so, because this money would go into the wallets of pensioners and pensioners, workers and all those who live on the edge of poverty or live on a minimum wage or live on some average salary, with which it is also very difficult to survive, and also with a minimum wage very difficult to survive. If we had that money, we'd invest in it and people would be happy today. It does not matter how pleased we are, but it is important that we, too, can be satisfied here if Slovenians and Slovenians are satisfied in such a way that they can combine the beginning of the month with the end and normally survive so that they can buy milk, electricity, gas and not know what else. To pay for it, to pay with what they collected and produced, and the pensioners certainly did. Pensions are not social remedies, but they are what they deserve. No one even has the right to debate this as a social story. That's not true. They've been working hard to get it. And if anyone in this country has made mistakes at any time, we owe it to mistakes, if they have happened, to correct them. We have to fix them, and we have to help these people, so we've been elected to the National Assembly. I've been listening to the SAB today talking about having 6,000 signatures of pensioners and pensioners gathered before the elections, and I'm curious about what. You got a call from the pensioners and they said listen, and now I'm giving you a signature because I want you to help me improve my pension? I doubt it. So it was safe, in my personal opinion, to re-use the pensioners again just to get the SAB to come to the National Assembly. Now that he has a responsibility and should help to raise pensions and support this law, they have a thousand and one excuse that they can't do so, they don't stick to any commitments made to the coalition contract, and so on and so forth. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the SAB, what I'm saying is that people know it slowly. People are already talking, pensioners and pensioners are talking about it. Thus, no one should afford this for their personal narrow political interests. And here they are exposed. This is unfair and extremely irresponsible and unfair. But with this law that we have tabled in the parliamentary procedure today, we have indeed taken a well-meaning step, we have wanted to connect all those who are sitting here in the National Assembly, and to help those of whom I have spoken, who, every euro, when the moon comes around, will come in handy. And when every cent, like I said today, and I wrote it myself, they take it out of their wallet with a shaking hand because they don't know if they can buy a pound of bread tomorrow. Or perhaps a problem that you all probably know how to secure a city in a nursing home if you have 460, 330 or 350 euros in pension. And you all know that. I have this case, my mom has 460 euros in pensions, but thank God there's just something we have that we can pull in and help out so she can be in a nursing home. But do you know how many people there are who have children who are socially at risk and have no chance to help? It happens here and there that, if possible, the congregation can come in here, but what a procedure, what everything is necessary before it happens! How social work centres react to these things and so on. I would not want to develop this matter right now, but it is a fact that needs to be changed. We need to help people to make a decent living through their old age, which they have earned in one way or another. Some were able to work for 40 years, some 35 years, some 30 years, some 25 years, and so on. I have also heard today that some of these groups were not covered by the bill. At the outset, I said that this was a proposal for a law that was under first reading. And the coalition, all of you sitting here in the National Assembly, along with the Ministry, have the opportunity to propose amendments to this law in such a way that it will be acceptable for all of us, especially not for all of us sitting here in the National Assembly, but for those people who need help. And if we start thinking like that, then believe me, we'll find a common language quickly. And today, when I represented the position of the Group of Members, I asked very clearly at the end of my position and drew attention to this. And today, I'm asking you not to go into politicisation at the expense of the pensioners, because this is unacceptable. You wrote these things yourself into a coalition contract and I ask you not to say anything that is not true. What you wrote in your own coalition contract should be kept. That's why you've probably also received more votes than you've earned. At least some of the parliamentary groups that are in this national assembly — otherwise they would not be in here — might today be a just and fair government, not just because of the narrow interests that I said earlier, a more important coalition and that this coalition remains and that the mafia can continue. Just like the mafia deal with the sale of NLB happened. This is unacceptable, extremely inappropriate, for you to be able to harm the country, and all indicators are clear that it is a serious injury to citizens and citizens. If we were to transfer this money to pensions into this law that we talked about today, which is supposed to be difficult, what I know, between 100 and 160 million euros, then look, we would still be left with 240 million euros, because we could increase our pensions again and maybe start at 65% of that pension calculation base. There would be no problem if this money that taxpayers are paying or creating is not spent in the way that I am speaking today. And I ask you once again, let us finish with these practices, let us cut this out and let us work for the people. Let us be aware that we are in the National Assembly to help people to work for them, so they have given us the voice and the pensioners and the pensioners, just like all those who are employed, as I have said, and they are receiving a miserable salary to help them finish the month’s start with the end of the month, and they may also enjoy a 5-, 6- or 10-day vacation per year because they deserve it because they are honestly working. I know people who work nights, Sundays, holidays, Paloma is up there, where I come from, and I see people at 35 years of age getting paid 600 and I don't know how many euros. It's a disaster. The country can also do what it can through its legislation and legislation. But the fact is, if we do what we can, we will certainly add our share to help people live easier. And that's our job. This law has been well-intentioned and I still ask you and I propose that in this first reading we confirm the law and then in the second reading, both the ministry and all the other parliamentary groups. Perhaps some of you smile a little, but at least Mr Franz Jurša, it would be nice that since you are representatives, even one part, you say that you are representatives of pensioners in the National Assembly, it would be right to vote for this law today and to prove yourself as those who actually do what you say. Therefore, please, Party Alenka Bratušek, the Left said that she would support this, but as far as Social Democrats are concerned, it is very difficult to predict because one is spoken and the other is done, and that is already known. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u69	Thank you very much for the last debater. The replica has Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u70	Because I have been directly referred to by the Member of Parliament. He didn't understand my debate, obviously. The Secretary of State said that this would be ensured or begun to be regulated in the first half of next year, and not in the next 4 years. So that would fix it. In his second debate, I think it is not worth reacting to, but I would still ask him to deal with his party's voters, not ours. But I would say that the worst thing for our party's voters would be if our party supported the law of SDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u71	Thank you very much. This brings us to the conclusion of the general debate, which gives us the word of a representative of the Government and of a proposer. First of all, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Secretary of State, Mr Bozic. May I have your attention in the hall, Mr. Pojbich? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u72	Thanks again for the word. As already mentioned in the introduction, the Government does not support the content of the bill, but we have already commented on the objectives pursued by this law to a certain extent. Our assessment is that we will be able to address those issues or the most pressing challenges that will somehow pursue these objectives and will be aimed at improving the social situation of pensioners in the first half of next year. Of course, it will be very important here, as I said earlier about these peaks, that they will have to be somehow linked and also coordinated how to approach here. For example, one of the things in the coalition is true for 40 years, but of course the entire coalition, as well as the Government, is aware that solutions must be fair, proportionate, and there will certainly be a few more debates on how to do this correctly. From here on out, what you said about the arrangement of the lowest old and disabled pension. In particular, we have pointed out that the relationship between pension recipients is being broken, for those who have worked for 15 years or those who have worked for 32 years would be treated equally. From here on, we have also pointed out the annual allowance. This one's gonna work out in Zippers. It is worth mentioning that, while it has reached a pre-crisis level after volume, the issue is that there are now so many more pensioners and this must be taken into account. However, it is always necessary to take into account what fiscal rules impose on us and what the Ministry of Finance cares about – that we remain sustainable and balanced in all these measures. From here on out, what has been said about taking account of economic growth. We believe that this is already taken into account in the framework of the harmonisation formula, which provides for a alignment of 60% with wage growth, 40% with inflation, which means that this is somehow covered inside. From here on, a warning about the financial consequences, of course again in this spirit of fiscal rule, of some stability that we must pursue. In addition, I gave only an explanation that I would not be misunderstood again that everything that is going on in the National Assembly is affecting our work, something more, something less. From this point of view, I merely point out that today's debate may contribute to these good intentions and objectives, but still, given that we have limited resources, it affects our work and places certain hands on a later date, even though we would like to see certain changes happen as soon as possible. For today's debate and what you've put on our hearts, of course, I thank you. As it is said, to conclude, let me reiterate that the Government does not support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u73	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Mag. Carmen Furman, maybe the last one will be yours, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. First of all, we have come to at least two conclusions through today's debate, namely that the coalition has apparently forgotten the contents of its agreement after only six months, but then somehow, through the debate, their memory has been refreshed. And secondly, that you've forgotten all the coalition parties about your pre-election promises, today you've forgotten the plight of the pensioners, their problems and their problems. All these pre-election promises of yours have unfortunately failed today. We have received confirmation that your coalition contract is just a piece of paper with proposals, which, unfortunately, will never be implemented, at least not for the pensioners. You obviously have €38 million in cash for the next year to pay off their regression. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, before the elections, you made a lot of promises to the pensioner. This year even marks the first decade since Desus announced thousands of Euros of the lowest pension to the pensioner at the head of Karl Jerjavc, but according to this forecast, pensions were only falling. From year to year, the material situation of pensioners has deteriorated and pensions have fallen to only 57% of the salary today. It hasn't been that bad. What did the previous government do in the composition of SMC, SD and Desus? Nothing. There's absolutely nothing to improve the pensioners' position. The fact is that we had economic growth only during the SDS government period, and the latter also felt in their pockets. The last pension reform adopted during the Janša government period has, if you want to admit it or not, extended the sustainability of the pension system for a decade, but the effects of these reforms are unfortunately to date. And today we have an alarming situation, which in 2008 was the average net retirement pension of 603.72 euros, 10 years later 620.25 euros. Do you know what that means? That you've increased your pension by 16.53 euros over the decade. Today, the same government in the extension is already sporadic at the first pensioner measure, i.e. EUR 38 million for pensioners. Some statistics, namely, the lowest pension in Slovenia today amounts to EUR 218, a guaranteed pension of EUR 517 and an average pension of EUR 641, which is close to the poverty threshold of EUR 636. Statistics say that as many as 78,000 pensioners and 16% of all pensioners receive a pension lower than the poverty threshold. Yes, it is, it is statistics, but behind these statistics are stories of people who have worked hard and paid contributions to the pension register. Many have also left their health in the workplace, but unfortunately today their pensions are not enough to cover the basic cost of living, and even less to cover the cost of care if they may need it. Who's responsible for this? The fact is that this resort has been in the hands of the SD party for many years, and Desus has been in the government for many years. In this mandate, the opposition parties have proposed several legislative proposals that will certainly improve the financial and social situation of pensioners. Here, however, the government has made it clear to us that we are already obstructing your work. And yes, unfortunately all these suggestions have also been rejected on your part. So everything suggests that the pensioners under your government will also be apparently forgotten. But surely, the recipients of privileged pensions will not be forgotten, but you obviously rushed to your government for them. In fact, already in October, you have tabled in a public debate a draft law on the addition of pensions to exceptional achievements in the field of culture and research and development. So if the law is adopted, the latter will, of course, only be an additional blow to the pension system, because we all know that these exceptional privileged pensions do not have any basis in paid contributions, so that for all these fighters, their descendants, served policies, different cultures, all of these pensions are taken from this common pension fund, and for the pensioners who have spent years and years in retirement and today receive 200, 300, 400 euros in pensions. When an average pensioner lives today and your government does not listen to him, on the other hand, you do not have any obstacles to the granting of extraordinary pensions to your chosen elite. Well, unfortunately, history is repeating itself today. You divide people into first- and second-class citizens, you would propose a law for elites, and for all other pensioners, you obviously don't care. Today we also have more than 10,000 recipients of fighter pensions, but only one third of them were involved in the struggle against the invader, and two thirds of them are inherited by the fighting pension. And for a bat, the youngest recipient of a fighter's pension is 22 years old. Let's take a look at this duality of yours. When we propose to raise the lowest pensions, I am talking here about people who receive 200, 300 euros in pensions, you are referring to the fact that such a proposal is disstimulating for pension payments, that it is contrary to the fundamental principle that the rate of retirement, of course, takes into account the length and the level of contributions to the system. You know what, respected colleagues and colleagues? Disstimulating and contrary to the fundamental principle of the pension system are your privileged pensions. Elit's pensions, because all of these recipients didn't pay at all, and now, thanks to you, their circle is expanding, at the expense of the poorest pensioners. At the time before the elections, there was a great deal of promise from your mouth to correct the wrongs of pensioners, but today it shows that they were some sort of pre-election candy to buy votes and form a new government. Today, when you have the opportunity to fulfill your promises to correct this real, increasingly poor financial, social situation of pensioners, unfortunately there is no obedience on your part today. You seem to have forgotten your promises, but there were so many beautiful words at the time before the elections. But today your actions show quite different. You know, we're different here. In our Slovenian Democratic Party, we will also fulfill the promises we make. We propose solutions that are good for people, and we support proposals that we know will bring something good for our citizens, regardless of who is proposing them. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today you too have the opportunity to press the key for your vote and show, after all, that you also know how to fulfill your pre-election promises. With this you will also fulfill what you have committed to the pensioners by your coalition contract, and finally you will do something good for our pensioners in the end. This should be the only thing that matters in our decisions, in the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-16.ana.u75	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your position. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I'm guessing there's no interest. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision that the bill is suitable for further consideration. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, which reads as follows: “The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on pension and disability insurance is suitable for further consideration.” We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 26 votes against 44. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill is closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 16th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Dear Members, I wish you a pleasant evening.
