ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the third extraordinary session convened under Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Dušan Šiško, Marjan Pojbič, Tomaž Lisec, mag. Dejan Kaloh, Dr. Ange Logar, Franci Kepa, mag. Andrej Reich, Ivan Hršak, Miha Kordiš, Marjan Šarec, Jernej Vrtovec, Bojan Podkrodšek, Ferenc Horváth since 12. 00 to 12.30, Iva Dimic from 12 to 15 hours, mag. Bojana Muršič from 13:00 p.m. and Matjaž Han from 15:00 p.m. and Ludmila Novak from 17:00 p.m. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I'd like to say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 3rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Tuesday, 17 July, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received a motion to withdraw the item from the agenda of the meeting. We are going through a discussion and a decision on the proposals for an extension of the agenda. Firstly, I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda of the 3rd Extraordinary Session should be extended by a decision declaring the decision taken at the re-voting of the legislative referendum on the Law on Construction, Management and Management of the 2nd track of the Divača-Koper Railway, which was 13. 5. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. You have received an extension proposal and a decision by letter dated 18 July 2018 and have been published on the e-club. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? Yes, you do. On behalf of the SMC Group, Dr. Miro Cerar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President! Colleagues and colleagues! I would just like to point out that we have been working for a very long time to reach the point at which we are now. We know that the existing Divača-Koper track is 50 years old, long and we simply need this new second track. On the basis of some achievements of previous governments, as well as the hard work we have done, the Government, which I have led for four years, has made a significant move, we have obtained all the permits to build a second track, we have obtained support from the last countries, we have the support of the European Commission, the European Investment Bank, we have ensured that this project will be carried out under the supervision of state authorities and institutions, and also under the thorough supervision of civil society, which we have included in this project. We are now at the point where, by the implementation of this law, the construction of the second track will begin, we will be able to use 109 million European funds that are already ready and waiting, and we will be able to do what is so important on the one hand for Luka Koper and the Slovenian Railways that we can continue to do better. What is important for the entire logistics and economic activity of Slovenia, because the second track is in favour of the logistical overall economic activity of Slovenian companies. Of course, Luka Koper will also become much more competitive in the northern Adriatic, using our geostrategic position, new jobs will also come and there will be positive environmental effects and roads. The roads we see today, how they are burdened, will be burdened, as we call it picturesque, we will place trucks largely on trains and this second track will enable Slovenia to develop and place us on a European and global transport map with much greater power. I wish this would be a good practice in the future. I wish we could work together to see that this project is carried out in the same way that we have set it together in some way. I am grateful to the voters for lighting the green light for this project at the referendums. Now, at all of us, at the future government, in the National Assembly, to ensure that the project is managed transparently, that, as we have set it, it will burden taxpayers as little as possible, that we can devote money from public funds for other purposes as possible and that we will enable Luka Koper, Slovenian Railways, our economy to develop and thus the development of Slovenia. I wish we could run this project together as we need to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u3	Is there another representative of the Group's delegation? The text shall be given by the winner, Jelinčič, to the nobles on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u4	Thank you very much. This speech by Mr Cerar, the president on his way out, I smiled a little while he says that, because of the 27km of new track, even the Slovenian economy will prosper, he will get the trucks on the railway. [[…]] And I wonder, where? They're going to go to the Divača railway, or they're going to Kopra or they're going to go from Kopra to Divaca down, because from there, our railway infrastructure is totally collapsing. So far, the government, the one leaving, has done nothing. One wonders what is going on with that famous company that has already spent 42 million euros. Where did that money go? Some people were directors there, already paying their wages, despite the fact that the law had not yet been confirmed. After all, I think the law must confirm this state council if we are to move the matter forward. As far as the price of that second track is concerned. For this money, they would have made at least six times the distance of those 27 kilometers across other countries. And that's not all! They have already accepted the annexes to this basic project. What are we doing here?Oh, my God! After all, I hope that in our Parliament there are people who have been involved in the economy, but not just people who have been professors, because the German proverb says: Drei Professoren Stadt Verloren. But in Slovenian: Three professors, destroyed state. And that's what we have here now. And now thank you for how things are going to develop, how they're going to go, and how they're going to go, and how they're going to go. The price is terrible. Horrible! Nobody listens to the profession. We have an extremely good profession on Slovenian railways, but this had to be pushed aside because others got involved, I would say, private interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u5	Let me draw attention to the fact that these debates are not intended to discuss whether we are in favour or in favour of a second track, but are you simply representing the position or are you in favour of extending today's agenda by a decision to declare a decision taken at the referendum. A warning. Anyone else would like to present the Group's position on enlargement? If not, then I conclude by presenting my views on the proposal for enlargement. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on that proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 67 votes against 3. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The National Assembly will consider the voting enlargement as A1. the agenda item, as soon as the agenda is set. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the second proposal for an extension of the agenda, that is to suggest to the National Assembly that the agenda of the 3rd extraordinary meeting be extended by a notice from the High Court of Justice in Celje, the Department of Criminal Justice and Offences, on the criminal proceedings against Mr Franz Rosco. You have received a proposal for enlargement and a report from the Mandate-Election Commission today and have been published not e-clubs. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? You don't want to. I therefore conclude by presenting my views on the proposal for enlargement. We're moving on to decision-making. We decide on that proposal to extend the agenda. Please check the voting devices. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. (The vote was 72.)(Nobody.) I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The electoral extension will be considered as item 2 of the agenda, following the conclusion of item 1 of the agenda. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference and the amendments adopted. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 63 votes against 7. (The vote was 63.)(against 7.) I take it that the agenda of the 3rd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving to A1. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a legislative referendum on the law on the construction, management and management of the second indent of the rail line of the wildlings-copier, which was 13. This Regulation shall enter It was published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia on 6 July 2018. 47/18, published Report of the State Election Commission on the outcome of the vote at the referendum on the Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the Second Route of the Divac-Koper Railway. It follows from the letter from the Supreme Court of 10 July 2018 that one complaint was lodged against the State Election Commission’s report within the legal time limit. The Supreme Court dismissed the appeal, rejected the judgment and confirmed the contested report of the State Election Commission and therefore the report, as published in the Official Journal, no. 47/18 of 6 July 2018, legally binding. Given that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 53b of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative within 8 days of the legality of the State Election Commission report, has to announce the decision taken at the referendum, I sent you a decision on 18 July 2018 to announce the decision taken at the referendum. On the basis of Article 53b of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I note that the National Assembly took note of the following decision: The National Assembly declares that, in a re-voting of the Legislative Referendum on the Construction, Management and Management of the Second Route of the Divac-Koper Railway, which was carried out on 13 May 2018 on the basis of the Decision of the National Election Commission on the establishment, management and management of the Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the Second Route of the Coper-Divic Railway, adopted on 27 March 2018 by the Elections and Voters, as established in the Report of the National Election Commission on the outcome of the vote in the referendum on the Construction, the Second Law on the Management of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Civilisation of the Law, the Law on the Law on the Opera of the Opera and on the Opera of the Republic. 47 of 6 July 2018, against less than one fifth of all voters and voters who had the right to vote, which, in accordance with Article 90(4) of the Constitution of Slovenia, means that the Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the Second Route of the Divac-Koper Railway, adopted by the National Assembly at its meeting on 8 May 2017, was not rejected at the referendum. The decision taken at the legislative referendum on the construction, management and management of the second track of the Divača-Koper railway was thus announced. That concludes A1. the agenda item. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, it is on a defensive proposal for a law protecting the value of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in the new Ljubljana Bank, D.D., beloved, under urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Representative of the Government of Mag. Matthew Vraničnik Erman, Minister of Finance, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u6	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! You have before you the proposal for a law to protect the value of Slovenia's capital investment in NLB. I am pleased to present this bill to you today and at the same time express the hope that, as a political community and as a country, we will be able to conclude in a timely and decisive manner a longer and more time-consuming way of thinking about how to protect the value of Slovenia's capital investment in the New Ljubljana Bank. It is important to point out that this law does not in any way change Slovenia's position so far on the issue of transferred foreign exchange deposits. These have never been an obligation either of Slovenia or of the Ljubljana Bank or of the New Ljubljana Bank. This is a question related to the legacy of the former common country, which must be resolved in a known way, at an interstate level, even before the international tribunal, if necessary. However, the law is necessary and needs to respond to the reality of matters. The fact is that because of the unwillingness of Croatia in particular, this issue is not being resolved as we would like. In the meantime, NLB is causing undue financial and business damage as a result of the illegal conduct of the same neighbouring country. This damage has recently become very tangible, as in a relatively short period of time there have been legal judgments in several procedures to the detriment of the NLB and the Ljubljana Bank, as well as the case of enforcement. The envisaged replacement of the negative consequences of the NLB resulting from the forced enforcement of the decisions of the Croatian courts in relation to the transferred foreign deposits is, in my firm belief, the best choice at this time in the relatively narrow field of possible solutions, set first by the Constitutional Order of the Republic of Slovenia, then by the commitments and rules of political and economic-monetary integration in which Slovenia has freely entered, and not least by the unsanctioned conduct of the neighbouring country, which, even after entry into the European Union, is in breach of international obligations. Replacing the negative financial consequences of the bank will be carried out by the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for its successor. In this regard, in view of the possibility that the substitutes by means of legal remedies may be recovered from Croatia, it is important that the NLB retains the claims and remedies resulting from the relationship arising from the judicial decision of the Croatian court or its enforcement. The Fund and the Bank will conclude a contract to replace the negative financial consequences under which NLB will have to commit itself to certain conduct, for example, by using legal means against decisions of the Croatian Court of Justice, to recover the funds it has received to compensate for the negative financial consequences if it succeeds with a remedy, and to continue to implement appropriate asset management measures to prevent or limit to the lowest possible level the possibility of enforcement. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In recent days it has been possible to hear a lot of simplified beliefs that the vote for the law is the vote to sell the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in the NLB. That's not true. votes for sale have already been counted twice in the National Assembly: in 2012 and in 2015. Last but not least, the European Commission's decision to grant NLB State aid from 2013. It is true, and in this respect, we have always been clear that the protection and sale of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in NLB is closely linked, through the interest that the State aid in question is reimbursed to taxpayers as much as possible through the purchase. The proposed law will establish a mechanism that will allow the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank to take place in a way where the price is determined by exclusive market conditions. In the meantime, they shall enjoy full benefits to the State as the shareholder of the banking institution concerned. For the sake of all this, we propose that you support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u7	The proposal for a law was considered by the Joint Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Rudy Medved.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! At its third urgent meeting, on 18 July 2018, the Joint Committee considered the proposal for a law protecting the value of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in Novi Ljubljanska Banka, d.d., Ljubljana, an urgent procedure submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure and published on the websites of the National Assembly. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 3rd meeting, on 17 July 2018, that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. The Committee was provided with the following material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 17 July 2018, the opinion of the Commission of the National Economic, Commercial, Tourism and Finance Council of 18 July 2018, and the additional explanations of the Ministry of Finance concerning the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Council of 18 July 2018. At the meeting, the members and members of the Committee were invited to submit proposals for amendments to the Committee prepared by the Ministry of Finance to the first, fourth, fifth, fifth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, thirteenth, fourteenth and fifteenth articles. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the State Council and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. In its initial supplementary explanation, the Minister of Finance presented the key objectives and main solutions of the proposed law, stressing the importance of replacing the negative financial consequences of the New Ljubljana Bank, d.d., Ljubljana, arising from the enforcement of the judicial decisions of the courts of the Republic of Croatia. The aim of the bill is also to maintain the value of the State's capital investment in NLB and to enable the State to pay dividends. It further clarified the situation of relations with the Republic of Croatia with regard to the applications submitted. It also stated that the amount of open cases in Croatian courts is EUR 172 million and the corresponding interest. It stated that the aim of the Republic of Slovenia is to privatise NLB in accordance with market principles and that the bank's status in the region is maintained. Adoption of the law is crucial to the regulation of internal legal issues. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention to the need for greater clarity and clarity in the law's proposal and the need to clarify how many procedures will be covered by this proposal. Furthermore, the question of the definition of enforcement, the question of commitments to the bank arising from the successor and bank contract between the Republic of Slovenia and the question of the final provision relating to the decision of the European Commission and the appropriate inclusion of a new proposal for sales commitments and its content with regard to the assessment of possible State aid was raised. The representative of the Council of State explained below that the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance supported the proposed law and highlighted the Fund's financial capacity to ensure that the negative financial consequences of banks resulting from the enforcement of the decisions of the Croatian courts relating to the deposits transferred would be replaced. In the debate, some members and members of the Committee felt that the draft law was being decided too quickly and under time pressure. They highlighted the issue of the selling price of NLB and the relationship between Banka Slovenije and the European Central Bank as well as open cases with the Republic of Croatia. The question was also raised as to whether NLB would really use all legal means to challenge the decisions of Croatian courts. It also raised the question of the financial capacity of the Fund to take over the replacement of the financial losses of the bank. In the debate, it was said that the decision on NLB's sales had already been taken. They considered that the proposal for a law should be supported. On the other hand, members and members who opposed the adoption of the bill considered that NLB did not have to sell and proposed alternative solutions such as opening new negotiations with the European Commission or returning state aid over a longer period of time. In addition, the Minister of Finance answered all the questions raised and provided further clarifications. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the amendments in accordance with Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of the Joint Committee report.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u9	Here comes the presentation of the position of the members of the groups. The word is given by the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc, for whom Jože Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u10	Dear President! Dear Minister! Position of the Parliamentary Group List of Marjan Šarca on the Proposal for a Law to Protect the Value Capital Investment of the Republic of Slovenia Novi Ljubljanski banka, d.d., Ljubljana. Let me begin by saying that in the Group of Members of the Letters of Marjan Šarca, we will support the proposal of the law. The government decided last Friday that the sale process of the New Ljubljana Bank continues and the adoption of today's law is the first step in this direction. It will maintain the value of the Republic of Slovenia's investment in a bank that will be sold in accordance with the capital investment strategy adopted in July 2015, which provides that the State retains a share of 25% plus one share and that the other buyers cannot exceed that share. By adopting the law, we will allow the successor fund of the New Ljubljana Bank to replace the negative financial consequences of Croatia's transferred foreign exchange deposits. Otherwise, the Fund will have a dedicated asset to replace the negative financial consequences of the New Ljubljana Bank, which will be obliged to repay all the amounts received if it is able to recover them by means of the legal means at its disposal. For at least a good year now, the State has been faced with the fact that the risk of these transferred applications prevents the successful execution of the sale process of the bank. If we do not protect this risk, the purchase can be reduced by more than EUR 400 million, we will be left without a dividend payment of 190 million and a retention profit of 80 million. If we break the numbers, we can lose about €700 million, but I am sure that we are all aware of what such a deficit means for the Slovenian budget. Let us recall that in December 2013 the State of New Ljubljana recapitalised EUR 1.55 billion. The privatisation of the bank is also among the commitments of the European Commission in return for the approval of state aid. Almost five years later, we are faced with the fact that any alternative solution, different from the adoption of the law, would significantly reduce the purchase price and further prevent the payment of dividends. For these reasons, aware of past commitments, and in particular because of the fact that we can lose 700 million euros because of the non-admission of the law, we will support the bill in the Marjan Sarca Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Jani Prednik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u12	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! The reasons for today's consideration of this bill are diverse, but they are all considered to be years and decades of origin in the past. Today, there is no decision on the sale or non-sale of the bank, and any privatisation and its model are not the subject of this debate, although it will be difficult to avoid this issue today. The capital investment management strategy of Novo Ljubljanska Banka is one of the major investments in which the country will maintain a 25% share while remaining the largest individual owner. As the country will remain the largest and most important owner and Nova Ljubljanska banka will continue to be the biggest player in the Slovenian banking market, it is necessary in any event to protect this property from the adverse consequences of Croatian courts' decisions. The purpose and purpose of the law is therefore to protect the value of the investment that the State has in the New Ljubljana Bank against the consequences of the illegal conduct of Croatian courts, which are not in accordance with Slovenian law or international agreements. History that has led the New Ljubljana Bank into the situation that as a defendant, potentially exposed to judicially recoverable damage in another country, will not be repeated. In any event, however, such exposure, even if it stems from a dispute that should have been resolved long ago in some normal circumstances, could have an impact both on the operation of the bank and on the value of the investment. With the adoption of the law, the Republic of Slovenia undertakes to repay to the bank the damage caused by the forced enforcement of decisions by Croatian courts in cases arising from the unresolved issue of former foreign currency savers. This is not important, as some will say, because of the benefits of possible future owners, it is important because of the interests of Slovenia, which is and remains the owner of the New Ljubljana Bank. And especially because Slovenia intends to remain an important owner of the New Ljubljana Bank, we must be in everyone's interest to end the period of uncertainty for it. It should also be in our interest to end the operating restrictions imposed as a condition for granting State aid and today only allow the bank a narrow range of business activities. It was, is, and remains the owner's responsibility. If the owner avoids this responsibility, it has consequences, even harmful as we have seen so many times before. Since the need for legal solutions for this area has been highlighted, we have insisted that all guarantees of the state be made with clear guarantees of pro-activity. This means that both the manager and the bank are expected to represent their interests fully in the legal proceedings initiated. We would also like to see the law, in addition to ensuring stability, as a clear signal to the management of the company and the operators that the exposure to NLB in Croatia reduces to a minimum. We have insisted that in the event of damages being imposed on this process, the State authority which has access to the information and business decisions of the bank's administration will be vigilant. In view of the amendments adopted yesterday by the Committee, this role will be played by the High Representative for Succession. This seems a reasonable solution to us, given that we all expect the original dispute at the end of this path to be collided, however, in the context of the negotiations on the succession of the SFRY. The Social Democrats will support the bill and we expect that this will finally separate the issue of foreign exchange depositors of the Ljubljana Bank from governance issues with state investment in the NLB, so that it can benefit our people in the future and not be a burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u13	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Monika Gregorčič is a member.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u14	Mr President, the representative of the Government, the honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Last week, the Government decided to propose to the European Commission amendments to the sales commitments of the New Ljubljana Bank on the basis of which it would sell at least 50% and one share by the end of 2018, and the remaining share by the control share of 25% and one share by the end of 2019. Even before this government decision was taken, the Ministry of Finance also took note of the proposal, or its committee, which held an in-depth discussion on the issue of NLB's sales. In this way, the current procedures for the sale and protection of NLB's value have also made a new reference to Parliament, as political circumstances have changed since the elections and the process of creating a new coalition is still under way. The Government's objective is to ensure that NLB's sales take place smoothly and without consequences as a result of the legislative decisions of the Croatian courts regarding the transferred foreign exchange deposits. The Government therefore confirmed, together with the proposal for revised sales commitments, the proposal for a law to protect the value of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in NLB. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we support the Government's efforts to keep the NLB strong, systemic and supportive bank of the Slovenian economy throughout the region even after fulfilling its commitments to the European Commission. In addition to the sales undertaking, NLB received other compensatory measures aimed at preventing distortions of competition in the single European market in 2013 in return for State aid granted. These are mainly requirements for the gradual reduction of the balance sheet total, the reduction of operational costs, better credit risk management and better corporate governance. These measures have limited the operation of the bank to a certain extent, but NLB also achieves better business results due to the resulting more conservative business policy. In 2017, the government launched activities to meet the main sales commitment in a timely manner, namely sales of 50 % and one share by the end of 2017, but in the summer due to warnings from SDH and the privatisation consultant, sales stopped due to risks related to the transfer of foreign exchange deposits from the former Ljubljana Bank in Croatia. In the SMC Group, we are aware that clearing the burden in the past is crucial so that the sale activities for the bank can achieve as high a purchase as possible. With a view to protecting the bank, we have already actively participated in the process of supplementing the Constitutional Law for the protection of NLB proposed by the SDS and NSI in the previous mandate, but the Constitutional Commission has followed the opinion of the section that declared the proposed solutions inappropriate in April this year and rejected the proposal. The government proposal for a law to protect the value of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in the NLB that we are considering today thus represents the only serious and feasible response to the threats to the enforcement of the judgments of the Croatian courts relating to the transferred foreign exchange deposits of the Ljubljana Bank. The bill solves internal legal issues and does not establish the responsibility of NLB, the Succession Fund or the Republic of Slovenia for Croatian transferred foreign exchange deposits. It is envisaged that the Succession Fund will only compensate the Bank for the negative financial consequences that arise because the Republic of Croatia does not respect signed international agreements relating to the issue of transferred foreign exchange deposits. The Republic of Slovenia insists that the issue of transfer of foreign exchange deposits is a hereditary issue. The adoption of this law will allow the State to recover a higher purchase and to pay dividends and retained profits to the bank before the sale. For these reasons, we will support the proposal of the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u15	The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u16	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! In the 1988 live John Carpenter second-rate spook, there were glasses that you put on, and then you saw the truth. Below the propaganda posters were passwords: Listen, Spend, Submit, etc. If I looked at the name of today's law under consideration, i.e. the proposal for a law to protect the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in NLB, d.d., I would probably consider the proposal for a law to injure the Republic of Slovenia and the cheap sale of NLB, d.d. Why do I say that? Firstly, because the government will overrun all the international agreements that have been adopted so far, which have protected the capital investment in NLB. In 1994, a constitutional law was passed that broke the link with the legacy between the Ljubljana Bank and the New Ljubljana Bank. In 2001, the Vienna Succession Agreement was signed, which stipulated that none of the signatories to the other would enforce financial claims. In 2013, a Wetlands Agreement was signed, which provided for the issue of foreign deposits to be resolved under the Succession Agreement. At the end of 2015, the higher court in Munich ruled that the issue of foreign exchange deposits of the former Ljubljana Bank is being resolved by the application of Slovenian law. That's the legal basis so far. Today's law puts it on the head and, for the first time, essentially recognises the legacy of the Ljubljana Bank and transfers the costs of claims directly to the country, says the budget. These applications were for 270 million, and some interest has been raised, so we can predict as the first and direct consequence of this law today that Slovenia will be harmed by several hundred million euros. This is also why in the first attempt last year, the minister burned down in the government. All the Ministers of the Cerara government then voted and the Minister offered to resign. After the expiry of the mandate, he tries to bring the same solution again through the back door after the mandate expired after the Prime Minister resigned in mid-March. The second point to be pointed out is that this is nothing more than a trip to a cheap sale, contrary to what we heard earlier from the SD Group's point of view, all the other parliamentary groups that spoke before me have acknowledged that the aim is to optimise the purchase. But what optimisation? More than 2.3 billion recapitalisations were invested in the New Ljubljana Bank only in the last round. At present, its accounting value is 1.6 billion. And not my words, but the words of Anton Žunič, the Secretary of State of Cerar's Government, who spoke today for the portal Siol.net, are that the market value of such a bank could be once or more higher than its accounting value, which is 1.6 billion. That's what he said. I'm just repeating his words. We don't know how much we're going to sell the bank under the conditions under which Cerar's government is selling it and forced by Minister Vranič Erman. The Minister doesn't even know. She didn't even want to say a frame number in a closed session. But they're talking about, like, 650 million. If I add up a little bit, 400 million Croatian lawsuits will come directly to the Republic of Slovenia. From 2.3 billion recapitalisations, how much will we realize? Maybe 650 million. We are talking here about the amount of maybe one and a half billion that the state of Slovenia will lose if we continue this way – the adoption of this law and the sale of the bank. Previously, the Prime Minister was talking about the second track. The second track was down, and last time we went to two referendums. Now we have a government that does business, and we make a billion and a half decisions overnight. Who gives the legitimacy to this? Not the National Assembly anymore. Not even at the closed meeting did the Minister receive the green light for this action. Therefore, in Levica we propose to reject this law today. I place my trust in you, all Members of Parliament and Members, to read before the vote at least what Primož Cirman wrote today on the portal Siol.net, where the Secretary of State has also spoken, and to make a smart decision in particular. It is not true that we are in a hopeless position that there is no alternative, as the minister says, who is trying to pose as an iron lady. We can go back to negotiating like the Portuguese did. We can also talk about how a better scenario would be for the State aid bank to start returning to the country. In this case, at least the state budget will not be robbed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u17	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, for which is Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u18	Thank you, Mr President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! With the New Slovenia Group, we are relatively satisfied because the Government woke up after a few months ago when the Members of New Slovenia and SDS cheered or cheered the alarm clock. Now this alarm clock seems to have worked. Better late than never. When we all know, ladies and gentlemen, we saved Slovenian banks in 2013. In accordance with the European Commission decision approving state aid, Slovenia has also adopted a series of commitments if the catalogue of commitments. One of these commitments is that Slovenia will sell Å minus 1 shares of Nova Ljubljanska Banka by the end of 2017. It's been over a year. On several occasions, I have already named, cited the provisions of document SA33229, SA as State Aid, which has the date of 18 December 2013. Unfortunately, it is mainly the Slovenian political left, here the left is written with little, with the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank constantly delayed. How this has affected and affected the price of the stock is clear to anyone who is familiar with the market in small quantities. She was always looking for new excuses, and it was never the right time to sell. To delay, interestingly, to delay sales, the coalition even quoted brexit as a convenient excuse — to understand who could. Among the excuses for delaying sales was the problem of Croatian savers, even though the problem existed for a very long time and could have been solved by the government some time ago. Later, Slovenia released a one-year delay for the sale of a quarter of the bank to the European Commission. In accordance with the revised commitment approved by the European Commission, Slovenia should sell 50% of the New Ljubljana Bank by the end of 2017 and the rest of the year. We are in the middle of 2018 and we have not yet fulfilled our commitments. At the expiry of the deadline, the Government proposed to extend the time limit of sale and to appoint an independent custodian to exercise the State's shareholding rights until the completion of the sale. In order to examine whether these proposed new measures sufficiently replace the postponement of the sale of the bank beyond the end of 2017, the Commission initiated an in-depth investigation in January 2018. In the event of a negative decision by the Commission, the New Ljubljana Bank could even be threatened with the penalty of returning all the last State aid around EUR 1.6 billion. The NLB would probably no longer be eligible for capital. The government was therefore playing with fire by delaying the sale of NLB. In the New Slovenia Group we stand for the immediate sale of this bank. The main reason for the sale is not the commitment we made to the European Union, but the main reason is that the country is an irresponsible owner. At the end of the day, we had to invest more than €2 billion in the NLB, but this bank does not give Slovenian companies and citizens any more favourable credit than other banks that are not ours, so they are not state-owned. The new Ljubljana Bank needs a new responsible owner for long-term success and development. That's a fact. Finally, we have a concrete solution that can facilitate the implementation and completion of the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. In New Slovenia, however, we note that the problem of Croatian savers has existed for a very long time and that the solution to it has been known for a very long time. The fact that the government came only after the elections with this law and privatisation is clear evidence of the politicisation of the whole process and this issue. We know that the current government does not have a full mandate, yet it acts as if that fact does not exist and acts as the savior of Slovenian taxpayers. The truth is completely different. The high damage will be done again by us, taxpayers. The Fund of the Republic of Slovenia is a public fund and, if the money to replace the negative financial consequences of the enforcement of the legislative decisions of the Republic of Croatia is not sufficient, the State budget will move. If we draw the line. Since 2015, the government of Mira Cerar, when the first judgment in this title was known, has done nothing. We're sorry. Members of New Slovenia will be supported by the draft law we are considering. The question is, therefore, who will be responsible for this reckless management of our property, material responsibility and political responsibility. Very good material for the new parliamentary commission of inquiry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u19	The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek, for whom Marko Bandelli is a member.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u20	Dear President, distinguished Minister, fellow Members! As an interesting thing to say when we speak our views, there is only half of those present, so that is one sign of respect for the argument itself. The new Ljubljana Bank is our country's largest investment. But there is also an investment that we have to sell. The sale of the bank is a price to pay in order to survive the crisis without the destruction of the troika. This is the price for us surviving the crisis without a Greek script and today we have one of the biggest economic growth among the EU Member States. If in 2013 and 2014, when Alenka Bratušek was led by the government, we were asked to help the troika, today we would be living in a completely different country — a country with poor and less accessible public education, with longer waiting periods and even more widespread health care, a country with even lower pensions and young people who would all go abroad for better and different challenges. We could only dream about the growth of the Slovenian economy and entrepreneurship today. All of this was questioned when the government, under the leadership of our President, Alenka Bratušek, decided to rescue NLB. Not to be mistaken, this was not an easy decision, but we made the right decision to save the bank. Although we did not have anything to do with past governments' errors and with the frauds of some corrupt bankers and business directors, we have taken responsibility and have allowed our actions to allow for new growth in Slovenia. We've remained an independent state, we've preserved the social state. The money we gave back then is back in the budget, in the health and pension bills. In return for being able to put the country's money in NLB at the time, the European Commission has decided that we must sell the bank. And the fact that we have to sell the bank is kind of right. It is right that we all adhere to the laws and rules that apply within the European Union. No undertaking or bank shall be in a privileged position. All of this harms others who aren't. That we must respect the rules, that we respect the rules, and that we can also understand all those who hurt us when Croatia does not respect the rules, arrangements and decisions of international courts. In Alenka Bratušek we are convinced that Slovenia is not obliged to do anything for the transferred foreign exchange deposits of former Croatian depositors of the Ljubljana Bank of Croatia or the banks operating there. Nor do Nova Ljubljanska Banka or its predecessor, Ljubljanska Banka, have any obligations under this heading. We owe the Croats nothing. That is why in Alenka Bratušek we have been talking about the looting of our country since the beginning in these trials against the Ljubljana Bank. But it is not only a real theft, but the judgments of Croatian courts also reduce the value of NLB, which we are trying to sell for as much as possible. For our fight against the troika, we can pay the price, and the only thing right is that this price for our country is as low as possible. And why would a Croatian country that doesn't follow the rules make that price higher? We just can't do that and we can't let that happen. So when we adopt this law, we do not recognize that the judgments of Croatian courts are legitimate. Not the state, not the NLB, they don't owe anything. We say quite the contrary that they are illegal, and that Croatia will have to return all this money, which may be made from NLB and then from the Succession Fund, at some point with interest. If we are in power, we will do everything in our power to get this money back from Croatia. If we're gonna sell the NLB bank, we're gonna have to get as much as we can for it. With this law, we will increase the price. Customers will not be able to lower prices by claiming that they are afraid of further Croatian looting. At the same time, once Croatia has come to its senses and becomes a normal country, we will also get the money that we may, I say, may not necessarily have to give NLB to pay for something, which under all the criteria is actually Croatia's debt and duty. Conclusion, President. Having dignity, a spine, being honest – sometimes it hurts, but in the long run it is the only thing that counts and brings you respect. At the Alenka Bratuzek Party, we will support the law as it was said.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u21	The word is given by the Desus Group, Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u22	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The sale of the country's three-quarter stake in the New Ljubljana Bank is a decision that cannot be changed. Now it's about how and when the country will do it. How, especially in what way and at what additional costs. When, however, it defines the time dimension in line with the proposed changes in sales commitments. However, it is essential to expect and, in particular, to achieve future sales results, regardless of the point of view from which we look at the matter, we are deciding on one of the most important foundations for the economic future of the nation. All those who were important decision-makers in the New Ljubljana Bank were allowed to transfer their debts to all taxpayers through uncriminal intelligence. They had open borders and had a free market, two main attributes of market capitalism. Therefore, today, with only the greatest difficulty, it is possible to understand how the integrity of the pure free market, which was then so clearly placed on the lie, could once again rule as the dominant economic doctrine and how we are again unable to understand or face it. However, this unusual phenomenon should remind us of the main feature it illustrates, the incredible shortness of memory between economic theorists and practitioners. The market for banking services is characterised by competition. There is nothing else on the market for economic ideas used by national economic policy makers. Here too, as it seems, the unforgivable laws of competition prevail. All ideas are welcome. All ideas are equal. But only if they're neoliberal. How is this manifested in practice, how do they think, and how do the priests of this doctrine work? The key concepts must be individual freedom, better said consumer freedom, freedom of choice, liberalisation, the market, optimal allocation of resources, private initiative, unlimited competition, entrepreneurship, rule of law, ambience, a better-spoken business environment, whatever that means. The consecrations of this idea are always entrenched in an abominable grimas where reference is made to the state and society, public interest and public consumption, development policy, unemployment, poverty and social disparities, progressive taxation or taxation in general, regulation and state intervention, except where intervention is in favour of the strong and the rich. Warned that the reality cannot possibly be integrated into theoretical models and the assumptions of such a species do not depend. This is not an ideological rebellion. It is about economic policy getting closer to reality and stopping ignoring empiria and economic history. Clearly, such a type of policy insists on the inseparable link between the economy and politics, philosophy and ethics and the deviation of economic policy from the airless space of abstract econometric models. Ladies and gentlemen! So who puts the saw in our fist and directs it to the branch on which we sit? You'll have to reveal someone like you always do. It doesn't matter what other people do to us. What is important is what we do for ourselves. But the damage will be like always — tomorrow morning when someone wakes us up again. The law on the protection of the value of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in the New Ljubljana Bank is a tactical measure that seeks to protect state property from grading, so we will support it in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u23	The text is given by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors, for which there is a victory for Jelinčič Noblemeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u24	Thank you very much. In fact, the law has been a result of continued agony since 2013, and at that time all governments or two governments have done nothing to resolve the matter. Now they are forcing us to take on the responsibility, obligation, and guilt of what they did not do. I don't know why now the government that's leaving has to take these laws to their noses and ask them if they're ever going to be taken into consideration. The Croats certainly don't. Croatia has its own affairs, and in this law we simply disavow what Croatia has itself adopted in relation to these matters, namely the Regulation on the Conversion of Foreign Exchange Deposits to the Public Debt of the Republic of Croatia from 1991 to 1993 and the Act on the Conversion of Foreign Exchange Deposits to the Public Debt of the Republic of Croatia in 1993. We forgot about it, as the Croats had accepted something, they had agreed internationally, the successor agreement was, the wet accord was. But that doesn't apply because it's already in the back. And I agree with my colleague, who said that one investigative committee would have to be made in this regard and reviewed thoroughly. There is talk of how the Ljubljana Bank will hold back in this way or perhaps the words “probably” resolved these matters with regard to Croatia. She won't save them. The question is also when will the issue of the operation of the Ljubljana Bank in Frankfurt be raised. This isn't solved either. Another serious matter occurred today in the newspaper Democracy, when Nebojsa Medojevic, a member of the Montenegrin parliament said that the collapse of NLB due to poor credit was the first sign that this was not a poor assessment of bank management, but a huge scheme of money laundering. Poor loans were just a legal form of money laundering. The write-off of bad loans to losers and the shift of those to a special bank for bad loans permanently erases traces of dirty money obtained by crime. And so on. Slovenia and NLB were a logical choice for the Montenegrin mafia. That is also what the Montenegrin Member said. He went on to say that the key creators of this scheme I was talking about remained outside the reach of justice, as key politicians and ruling parties were also included in the whole story. Similar fate can befall NLB, as the investigation of events in this bank would open up questions about the responsibility of some key politicians in Slovenia. Here he's tied himself to another bank that's already been bankrupt. And now we're going to adopt a law that doesn't actually guarantee anything. It doesn't guarantee anything. When it is said that we should not know what to do and yet sell it all together, one wonders because the recapitalisation of NLB did not distort the European banking market or system, as NLB does not have any exposure in any member of the European Union. Then what did we do here?Oh, my God! I agree with certain colleagues who say that a Portuguese case needs to be looked at. Why not if they did it and we can't? I know that we do not have negotiators who would place something solid in the European Union and say something, but we are not satisfied with it and we are not going to do that. We're going there, not with our pants down to our knees, but without our pants. And we move to the left, to the right, to everyone. But it would be good if we once changed this way of working and told Europe that we are not just one motherfucker out there in one of the valleys they can do what they want. Especially that this is what Croats are doing to us. Croatia does not take us seriously and with the various moves that our government is making on its way out, we are only less and less valuable.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u25	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u26	President, Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This law saves the New Ljubljana Bank or saves its purchase or price. In other words, Nova Ljubljanska Banka will receive those amounts that it is actually paying on the basis of decisions of the Croatian courts reimbursed by the Succession Fund, this is supposed to be provided by this contract on the one hand, which is why its price will probably be higher for the potential buyer as well. There's a little over 400 million here, considering both the principal and the interest. That's what I'm talking about. As a result of this law, Nova Ljubljanska Banka will not receive any additional payments of dividends that cannot be paid today. This will be decided by the European Central Bank. That's why these are illusions to make any difference. For this reason, the Croatian courts will also not stop issuing decisions. It's an illusion to do anything about it. In fact, Croatian courts do not take into account the international agreements signed with the Republic of Slovenia, nor does the Republic of Croatia actually take this into account. Because this is not taken into account, actually, I will say, someone has said to the looting of Slovenian property in Croatia and this can lead to executions themselves. The new Ljubljana Bank is suing, complaining about these decisions, but, of course, the decision itself at a certain stage does not hold back that we should actually pay for it. The measures provided for in this law mean, I will say, in a way, the transfer of the obligation of the New Bank of Ljubljana to the Succession Fund, which is a state institution with the money of the state and the citizens. Without additional measures by the Republic of Slovenia, it actually means that this money will go to the shoulders of taxpayers. In fact, this law also constitutes a solution that the Slovenian Democratic Party and Nova Slovenija have already proposed by amending the Constitutional Law. A few months ago, the government did not adopt a positive opinion. However, there were also reciprocity measures in those solutions. These aren't in this marriage today. Reciprocal measures to recover Croatia or to recover Slovenian property already seized by Croatian courts in Croatia or elsewhere. That was rejected at the time. I don't know if it was political prestige or not. Now part of the solution is introduced by this law. However, the Minister of Finance also mentioned on the Joint Committee yesterday that the Government is preparing and has already prepared measures to ensure the return of Slovenian property, which is actually encroached or paid in Croatia. Which means there are other measures. This was also agreed at a meeting in June when the presidents of the parliamentary parties discussed this in the Slovenian National Assembly. The implementation, promise and agreement that additional measures will actually be implemented is what gives the possibility for Slovenia to receive this property back. Because we believe that these measures will actually happen to come true, the Slovenian Democratic Party supports this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u27	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on Article 15 and the amendment tabled. I am therefore putting to the debate Article 15 tabled by the left-wing group. Does anyone want to discuss this Article 15? Yeah. Please sign up for the debate by pressing the key for the speech. I'm opening the application. The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u28	Thank you for saying that again. I listened to all the opinions, and I have to admit, some of them I didn't understand. I did not understand why DeSUS, who in fact thinks in the right direction and in the right way, judging by the position of their representative, sees and understands the problem in the NLB, is now essentially supporting the law in the end. I also don't understand SDS. I think two, three months ago, the SDS would have literally broken this marriage. After all, it is virtually in total contradiction to what you have proposed with your so-called UZITUL. This law is the opposite of that. Under the line, I can only say that obviously Slovenian political class is united in bringing this gift to the future owner of the NLB, who sold the bank to him at a price, to relieve him of the potential repayments of Croatian savers, and this will put the burden on the Slovenian state or Slovenian taxpayers, who, if we consider that amount to be EUR 2 billion 300 million, have already and everyone has contributed directly to the rehabilitation of this bank. If we continue on the road that Minister Vraničar Erman has crossed for us, and now you are squeezing all the parliamentary groups here, we will probably never get 20% of this money back into the Slovenian budget, and we will lose the largest system bank that any smart country would use as an institution that supports and strengthens the domestic economy, it will be followed by credit lines. This is, after all, also the main reason why this bank was owned by the state for so long. And it wasn't to answer that question, always state-owned. Before the crisis, you must not forget that those who talk about banking crime and so on were third-party owners of the country. A similar proportion was held by the Belgian NCB, which, inter alia, had an Executive Director for Risk Management. It is said that the director set up by the Belgian bank, co-owner of NLB, was the one who, before the crisis, judged what risky loans are and what not, what risky loans are, what could be translated into bad loans. This private partner, whom you now rely on again in the resell, not specifically this private but private partner, who was guilty of everything that happened before the crisis there, simply escaped after the bank crisis, sold his share and transferred the entire burden of the bank's rescue to the shoulders of the Slovenian state. Now that this bank is full of state money, we will sell it on the same hoof as apparently NLB in 2015. NLB invested 870 million. The purchase at the sale was 250 million. The information that is spreading throughout the Slovenian public space is that the new owner has paid it for 438 million euros in profits in the first half of the year. If the example of NKBM is rendered into NLB, you can only multiply it by a factor of 2.5 likely. If we talk about the direct consequences of this law and the way in which it is sold by the Ministry of Finance. In Levica we place our hearts once again to read at least what was published today on Sil.net and what the secretary of the prime minister said in the end in leaving, which now leaves the room which opposes such action. This action is ultimately opposed by the government's legislative service. She issued a negative opinion. Get it on the website at the link of this meeting. This action was eventually opposed by all the Ministers of the Cerara government six months ago. Such action must end today because we are almost two months after the elections, we are almost five months after the resignation of the government, and no legitimacy has this government and this finance minister been able to do so. We need to draw the line. At the end of the day, the European Union is supposed to be set up, in particular, with a joint commitment to respect democracy. And one of the foundations of democracy is democratic legitimacy. The government that has resigned, which has crossed the finish line of the elections, does not have this democratic legitimacy. If they have to understand anything in Brussels, it is that there is no democratic legitimacy at this time for such procedures. She's not here. We went to the referendum twice for a little over a billion Euros worth a second track. How can we now decide the fate of the largest Slovenian bank without any bit of democratic legitimacy. At the closed session, the minister tried, and we got three sets of joints in the basement. Not one of them was looking over. Not one. Today you will probably tell Members that this is not directly related to privatisation, that it is a matter of protecting the State's assets or capital investment in NLB, and that you will wash your hands with it. But it's not true, because the minister herself keeps saying that this law is only being passed in order to optimize the purchase in sales by the fast procedure that will follow. They're alternatives. I told the board several times about the Portuguese case. I'm gonna take some time here to show you what deception we've been given. First, we have heard from the Ministry that if Slovenia were to re-enter the European Commission and even be successful, it is said that the European Commission would make Slovenia an exception and say, "well, after the 107th and 108th Articles of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, if you read it correctly, it was not an unlawful state aid when the state, as a hundred percent owner, recapitalised NLB." We could do that. And the ministry said, "Yes, yes, yes, but in this case, the actions of other Member States in the same situations would have to be handled by Slovenia and the European Commission." To the question that these countries were, I got the answer: Latvia, Ireland, Portugal. I was in Vienna on Friday, and I spoke with representatives of the Portuguese government. They answered me not only that they would not have sued the European Commission or Slovenia in such a case, but they were themselves when they reached an exception in the European Commission by renegotiating and the banks which recapitalised it with EUR 4 billion did not need to be sold. That's what they did last year. You can look at Caixa Geral de Depositos, the European Commission has made a public statement, I have it printed here, we can also reproduce it, and you can read it, in the same case as we and NLB, it was not illegal state aid. Here we have a case-by-case example of reading EU law, which offers us a very clear alternative. The Portuguese are even willing to help us with this. But we do, in fact, have, on the other hand, our ministry or our minister's resignation is obviously some other interest. I don't know what this business is. All I can do is guess and figure out who's gonna benefit from this forced sale that they're pushing us into. But here's the alternative. Second alternative. Here I'm going to say it's a work hypothesis because I need to talk to some other economist. If we follow the Minister's instructions, we will lose most of the money that was invested in the NLB after the crisis. She warns that the worst thing that can happen to us is that the bank should return state aid. I think like this in this case. If we could agree on a manageable period of refusal of State aid, however, the bank had almost 200 million profits last year, this would not be a bad scenario at all. The state budget would receive an additional inflow for the next 10, 15 years, the bank would remain state-owned and rid itself of any restrictions it is now suppressed. We could start a normal business. The minister, of course, turns with her eyes and smiles and so on, but look, for I say, this is a work hypothesis that is worth considering. But what you have done for four years is to walk, not negotiate, but essentially accept what Slovenia has been forced to sign in 2013 in some totally different economic conditions and circumstances. If we are already negotiating, we must also return to 2013 and remind the European Commission of how it forced Slovenia to recapitalise as we have it. In August 2013, both NKBM and NLB, according to estimates by EBA's European regulator, were capital banks. So they weren't over-indebted, they didn't have too many bad loans. Their capital adequacy was okay. Four months later, and in December 2013, a total of 2.9 billion bad loans were charged to the European Commission in these two banks. Thus, this debt was incurred within four months, when the European Commission forced Slovenia to agree to some new stress tests by foreign credit rating agencies, which, by the way, gave way to billions and a half, they chose a larger one, and Slovenia was credited with giving 2.9 billion euros in public money in these two banks. This happened under pressure from the European Commission. That is why we are talking about this amount of recapitalisation today, and that is why we are talking today about this force, where the European Commission later got us, that now this bank, once full of public money, needs to be sold. It is necessary to go back to the original sin and show the European Commission what she was doing at the time, what scarves these tests were made with. You probably still remember the stories that literally the students of the economy were driving around with cars and out the window a little bit over their thumb assessing the value of this inherited investment and the value of that block, which is not completely built there. So these stress tests were kind of done, and so were the differences between them for a billion and a half. Nowhere in Europe has this happened, it is in Slovenia. Nowhere in Europe has this led to re-examination of the legitimacy of these stress tests, but the highest possible assessment has been accepted and banks flooded with public money, then a further commitment has been made without problem, that is to sell banks without pardon, without objection, without protest. We're here today. I now sincerely invite you, because I know that you are the new Members and I understand what the climate is in fact the Minister is cooking with her presentation of the near NLB flood, if we do not sell it in a moment to reconsider whether her path here is truly optimal. I don't think so, but not just because in our client we're opposed to selling NLB, but from a naked account, how much money we're going to get back from what we had to put into the bank and what we're now selling under duress. I think that this is a negligible proportion and that this is a national disaster in the scale of corruption projects such as TEM 6 and so on. But now we have a chance to stop her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u29	Natasha Sukic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u30	Your Honor.Oh, my God! Thank you for your word. I mean, something fundamentally different or new that Luke Moon said before me, or I can't add. It seems interesting to me, quite unusual to think, since I came to this Parliament, but I have not been in it long, as many of you have not, we are constantly living in a state of emergency. We're taking some extraordinary measures all the time. Earlier, we had warned that a child’s heart surgery law would have harmful consequences. Today and yesterday we read the first effects of this. The health system, the public health system, the first results and effects are already shaking and shrinking. The doctor's company is already protesting. Doctors and experts will insist on their own if they don't leave, and even health care can be set up with the help of doctors who will cost us €2,000 400 net per day plus €6,000 five-star hotel per month. And we've already got two of those. What are you doing? You're just counseling for once. You're not treating anything yet. Just that much for an illustration. For the last time, under a pesos of emergency, we adopted the law that was on top of our heads. Today we will re-adopt the law, which is, but now I have tried a little differently to argue or underline some of the things Luke has said. Interestingly, see, those who claim that we do not accept anything about the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank today. That is not true. Today we are taking steps to sell the New Ljubljana Bank. This is a completely inevitable fact, and this has been recognised by all the parliamentary groups, except the Group of Social Democrats. It's not true that I don't know what we're saving. No, it is not right for us to stick to forced commitments in 2013 by the European Commission. I'll explain later what everything is and how these things are. It's not right, and we actually have bad luck. We have bad luck here in the National Assembly that there is a Portuguese case that we have clearly presented. We have bad luck because I really don't understand why we don't all make decisions together and try to follow this path. Let's at least try. Let us try to go to Brussels, try to negotiate, as the Portuguese have negotiated, and let us not sell the New Bank of Ljubljana just overnight and without real reflections and without real calculations and judgements, what this means, what the effects will have in the medium, long term on this country, on our economy, etc. I don't understand why we can't at least try. In addition, it should be noted that not only did the Portuguese negotiate that they could maintain, defend their bank against forced sale, they even revised certain commitments to return. We can also do this peacefully because we actually have all the arguments if we want to use them for this. For me, the phenomenon is that Minister Vraničar Ermanov will today appear to be able to ensure that the state actually guarantees all these matters financially. This is a circuit which means, in fact, that Slovenia guarantees payment of obligations under the judgments concerning the transferred foreign exchange deposits in Croatia. We can only remember, but we can't remember one thing, because we didn't sit here, except what we read in the media, that this idea last year was the only one in the government that this minister advocated. And interestingly, all the other ministers disagreed, including from those parties who will support this smoothly today. A few months ago, she failed to do so, and then she offered to resign. Today, in this inter-government, in these mud fishing waters, when, in fact, this government no longer has these powers at all, only technical matters should be taken, and this is not a technical matter, and when we do not have new governments here, when there are a bunch of new Members and Members, today this minister will bring this harmful law, harmful law, I repeat, through the side door. Now let us see why this law is actually harmful. For the first time, it is harmful because by this law Slovenia places all the legal defence of the New Ljubljana Bank, which is determined by agreements and memoranda from the past, in fact, on the head. This means that by adopting it or adopting it, we recognize that previous international agreements, judicatures and constitutional laws have not been enough. As early as April this year he warned the National Assembly of the former Deputy Governor of Banka Slovenije Andreji Rant. But also obviously this moment today, obviously, I don't know if you've forgotten some, it doesn't matter. Let me remind you of what Luka has already said, this is the 2001 Vienna Succession Agreement, the 2013 Mokric Memorandum, according to State Secretary Anton Žunič, quote, which says for today's Siol: "There is no legal basis for the payment of claims." This is highlighted by Zunič, who points out another legal guardian in favour of NLB, namely the 2012 European Regulation, which does not allow the resolution of an international dispute on the back of a private entity. In this case, therefore, the New Ljubljana Bank, as this would constitute a violation of the public order of each individual EU member. Even this is what we have from 2012, the European Regulation. I don't know if we really need this law in all these regulations, in the Vienna Agreement wet memorandum. What exactly is the point? And I also think that this was the position of the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek, which says that in 2013 the undertaking to sell the New Ljubljana Bank was the price for not having experienced the Greek script here. It's a perfect demagogy, and it's not true. Now I'm going to prove why it's not actually true. Because we have not been in this situation as Greece has been in any way. Slovenia has actually been forced to commit to various such acrobatics and manipulations. At least we judge this commitment by being extremely harmful. Slovenia then really – because it was a crisis, it was distracting the world markets, so it was distracting us – it had no other solution than to recapitalise the New Ljubljana Bank if we want to solve serious economic disruptions. Luke made it clear earlier that we were not the only bad masters ourselves. What you say in New Slovenia is not true. The Belgians were equally responsible for this story, even their director was the one who was most responsible for this story of risky investment, so that it will not hold, either, when we say that we have been so terribly poor masters all the time. The problem is that the Government has blindly agreed to the European Commission's position on State aid, which is, in fact, completely economical and politically extremely harmful to our country. European rules, interestingly, allow Slovenia to provide state aid to foreign companies such as Magna or Revoz. And here, suddenly, there is no talk of any compensatory measures or, in the Commission's view, aid to foreign capital in this case does not distort competition. I find that very interesting, given these positions regarding our bank. When it comes to the rehabilitation of the bank and the entire banking system, which was then a necessity in the given historical circumstances, which was also in crisis because of policy, not only because of poor management or even mistakes before and so on, but also because of the bad policies of the European Commission and the European Central Bank. It also had its impact not only on our banks, but on banks elsewhere, of course also on our bank. And then this same commission requires us to sell cheaply the bank that we have invested in, as we have heard today, about EUR 2.3 billion. That's what we've invested so far. While this same European Commission has not contributed a single cent, we are now going to sell this bank for change literally, and so through the thumb, it is difficult to determine, it is difficult to predict accurately, but around a billion and a half we will surely lose with such a move. The government — whatever it is and whoever it is will have to firmly reject such logic, which is strictly political and criminal to small countries and does not have any economic rationality if we look from our point of view. But he probably has this economic rationality for someone else. People should be made clear once and for all that the decisions of the European Commission are a pretext to force privatisation. What about Deutsche Bank, we talked to the committee yesterday, do all the countries have privatized or are there any other stories in the background? Those who are more familiar with the banking sector answer this question themselves, because I do not get to know this sector so well, but I know that all countries are clearly not subject to the same rules in this same Europe. The privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank is therefore no compensatory measure in reality and because it has no effect on competition. If Slovenia sells the New Ljubljana Bank, it will happen – what? It will happen that an investor will invest some 100 million euros in the state budget, it will be a transaction between the state and that investor, and the competitive position of the New Ljubljana Bank will not really change by a millimeter, nothing at all, because of privatisation. After the transaction, the bank will be the same as it was before the transaction. Therefore, the privatisation requirements are not really about fulfilling Article 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which limits legal aid and interference with free competition as shown here, but are indeed a violation of Article 345 of the Treaty. This provides that the European Commission must be neutral towards the forms of ownership. It must not privilege private property in the Member States. This is very important. And that's what we forget here or we pretend we don't know. If the government acted responsibly, as already pointed out by Luke, in the case of the New Bank of Credit, Maribor would have done what Portugal and Italy had achieved. Portugal is not really the only one in Europe. And if you had not already demanded the removal of forced commitments, you should have achieved at least one reasonable delay of sales, as Luke had warned. I won't go into any more details because I could count them by tomorrow. Another thing I might point out is that yesterday, on the Joint Committee, I was extremely disturbed. Today, though, this was not said by the minister. Somehow between the lines, the minister made it clear that, with such debates as we would like them to be available in Levica, the value of the bank is further reduced, if this also affects, debates, the mood in Parliament, the climate in politics, all of which is now lowering the value of this bank. I would just like to point out, somehow, that if we go with such laws to the head of an intergovernmental government, for which there is no legitimacy, and this is really a question of how it is possible, if we go with such laws on our heads, from Slovenia to make a periphery European state, essentially a colony, then at least preserve our democracy, but not that we can afford a democratic deficit, and we will somehow threaten Members among the lines if, if you are to have such an inappropriate discussion, you will be the one who is to blame for further reducing the value of the New Bank of Ljubljana. I don't know. I urge you to reconsider. Look, let's be aware that this is already an interesting moment in time for us to make such decisions. The moment the new government is gone. Now I don't know if this testes such and different coalitions and you just want to please each other and you've forgotten some, even those who were previously in the coalition, you just forgot that you actually rejected the same idea of the same minister a few months earlier. At least explain to me how this idea suddenly works. How come she's not here a few months ago, and how does it work all of a sudden? It's incomprehensible to me. I invite you to think about it, because it's actually an acceleration in the headless sale of something that doesn't necessarily have to be sold. Let's at least try to negotiate for the Portuguese route first. If it doesn't work, we can still sell. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u31	The word is Robert Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. We're a little off topic, but expected, and I think so. Possible alternatives to the consequences of this law should be discussed. Of course, the law is directly linked to the sale of the bank, which is already mentioned by its name — the law to protect value. However, the value is a market category determined by supply and demand, i.e. on sale and purchase. To sell NLB is a fact. Or we can change that, I don't know, but maybe we can find the ways we're looking for now in protecting our property. We do not recognize the judgments of Croatian courts, and we are challenging this by legal means. Also by this law, which protects our investment and ultimately our own sovereignty. The media today report that this law is a gift from the state to the future buyer. Of course that's entirely possible. But we can look at this issue from another point of view. In our claims that we are right as owners of the bank, we are to the extent that we guarantee this also with our assets, which is actually what the fund is doing. Of course, there will be some facts, particularly the urgent procedure, the State Secretary's statements today in an article from Siol, and we are choosing again among the worst and least potential scenarios. Looks like we're gonna have to get used to this. Why would I support the law? Because it's not about rehabilitating the bank's business decisions, but it's a guarantee for political decisions 30 years ago. That we have to pay these potential damages is not the bank's business policy, but the political situation that took place 30 years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u33	Minister of Finance Matthew Vraničar Erman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will begin by defining the amendment tabled. Finally, the debate is open with regard to the amendment to Article 15. I cannot support the proposed amendment as a representative of the Government in this debate. The proposed amendment envisages delaying the implementation of the law until 1 January 2021, thereby simply destroying the objectives and objectives we want to achieve by law. So much for the amendment proposal. Now let me focus a little bit more on the debate so far and answer some of the arguments. In one matter we agree with Mr Mesec, that is, that some of the views presented are mildly incomprehensible. I will add this, some positions are based on inaccurate information and arguments. The first inaccuracies are that NLB was recapitalised at EUR 2.3 billion in 2013. That's not true. The amount of recapitalisation in 2013 was a billion 550 million. The 2 billion 300 are all the recapitalisations that the state has carried out in this bank since 2009. Furthermore, it does not claim that I proposed the same proposal in December and that all ministers voted against it. In December, I proposed a change of commitments to the government. By the Government's endorsement of this proposal for amendments to the commitments and the fact that we have forwarded them as a Government to the European Commission, we have allowed negotiations to continue with the European Commission, which has led to a new version of the proposal for revised sales commitments sent to the European Commission on Friday. And don't argue that I offered to resign in December. It does not claim that the protection system I proposed last year was identical to what you have today in this bill. He's holding one thing. I take very seriously the oath I made here behind this stage, and I take my statements very seriously. That is why my statements are thoughtful and sometimes cautious, but above all they are based on arguments. It is only my regret that, as pure gold, certain statements are taken, totally not supported by any argument, only because they correspond to the positions we are defending and, on the other hand, by attempts of discrediting, are discredited by other arguments based on arguments. I have presented these several times and will not repeat them in the interest of the time of today's debate. It's obvious to me that I don't want to say the price. No responsible minister would say it at this stage and not say it. And it's a good thing he doesn't say it. Because the price must be determined by the market. It does not claim to be the same procedures as they were in 2002, when the Belgian NCB and the EBRD became the owner of the bank. In no way do we change the decision of this national council to privatise NLB by the first sale method of shares and that dispersed ownership should be pursued and that the state retains 25 per cent and one share and that no one should be more owner than the state. We're not changing that in any way. And this sales process is something completely different than selling to a strategic co-investor. He doesn't claim that this law leads to a cheap sale. This law allows the NLB sales procedure to be carried out on the basis of market principles; on the basis of the same principles as those of other banks which received State aid during the crisis and which have made a commitment to privatise these State aids in relation to the approval of these State aids. The Slovenian case in this case is somewhat specific. Why? Because we were the last to undertake this kind of resolution of the banking system because we received one longer deadline for the reprivatisation of banks in that 2013 decision and because, following the 2013 decision, we also did not need to privatise NLB fully, that is to say, in 100 per cent, but as a state we can retain 25 per cent and one share. Let me focus on this point a little bit on such an accentuated Portuguese case. During the crisis, Portugal solved a number of banks. Lots of banks, different ones. One of them was Caixa Geral de Depositos, so-called CGD, which was recapitalised twice. For the first time in 2013, in July 2013, that is to say, before new guidelines for granting State aid in the banking system entered into force, and at that time, the European Commission approved a state aid recapitalisation of EUR 1.6 billion as eligible State aid, while also approving a commitment restructuring plan by the end of 2017. There was no commitment between these commitments that the State must sell any of its shares in the bank. In March 2017, the European Commission confirmed the compatibility of the second recapitalisation of 3.9 billion with State aid rules. At that time, the European Commission considered that recapitalisation did not constitute State aid because it had implemented countries under conditions such as the private investor would have accepted. In the absence of State aid, of course there was no undertaking in this case that the State must sell any of its shares in the bank. Although we have been very careful in the past months to examine the various cases of State aid granted to banks, we have not observed a single case where the sales undertaking was given and confirmed by the European Commission, and the sales undertaking of the State of the day was confirmed and then amended. There's no such case. And the case of Portugal, this case of CGD, is not identical to the Slovenian case in terms of the situation it is today. We are solving the situation as it is today, we are not solving the situation as it was in 2013, when this argument could still be maintained. Today, unfortunately, he can't take it. One more time. This case is not comparable to the Slovenian case and we cannot consider it a possible alternative to what we are proposing today. And once again, remember, Slovenia is obliged to privatise 75% minus one share, not 100%, as in the cases of all other sales commitments that the European Commission has included in the State aid decisions. Remember, too, that the guidelines for granting State aid over time have changed and the guidelines under which Slovenia was granted or granted State aid are stricter because we have only delayed the necessary rehabilitation of the banking system for so long. Nor does it claim that this law would overtake all existing protection systems. In the text of the law in Article 3, we explicitly repeat the non-recognition of liability for transferred foreign exchange deposits, but as the responsible owner of the capital investment in NLB, we are obliged by the measures within our competence to enable this investment to function normally; and this is what this law allows. It allows us to enjoy ownership or capital entitlements, if you want, and allows us to go on sale if we have to, and if we have decided in the past years, that we want to privatise the bank in 75%, that this privatisation will run on market terms and not due to some burden of the past. Yes, because of the guarantee, there may be a certain impact on the public financial picture or certain payments from public funds, but these are inadequately lower than the reduction would have been if such a measure had not been taken. That is why I do not agree with the idea that this law means a trip to a cheap sale of the bank, but vice versa; it allows the bank to operate and that the bank can focus on its mission. Return of State aid as an alternative. First, this is a breakdown for the Slovenian financial system as well as a major destabilisation of the system. The NLB should recover the corresponding share of all State aid granted so far, so the starting point would be 2 billion 300. The balance sheet amount or value of the bank, the capital adequacy of the bank, would be jeopardised by such repayment, no matter how long these State aids are actually returned, the bank’s books must immediately record this obligation and immediately fall into the capital adequacy of the bank. And what happens? Under the directive or now the Bank Rescue and Forced Cessation Act, this bank, which provides more than 23% of the share in the Slovenian financial market, is in the resolution process. However, the resolution process means that, in hundreds of percent, it is sold off to those who are willing to deduct a few euros for it, not a few million. A few Euros! I do not want such a scenario and do not want to take responsibility for such developments. For this reason, I think it is the only responsibility that I have insisted, despite the Government's departure, that decisions should be taken to enable us to proceed in a stable manner in terms of the stability of the bank and in terms of the stability of the system as such. If you decide otherwise, I will respect your decision. But I think you'd be wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u35	Luke Moon wanted a replica. Here you go. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedurally, procedurally, it has the advantage. Mr. Chestnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u36	Procedurally. The proposal for an amendment to the Left is irrelevant. Today we do not decide on the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, this has already been determined. We decide to protect the bank. Sales and sales wheels would continue and the protection law would have no effect. Given that we have been listening for two days to the eloquent statement of the Left that the bank should not be sold or that it is still possible to achieve a different solution, we propose that the meeting be suspended, that the Levica provide the Members and the Government with material on its allegations, that these statements be supported by documents and that the public also be aware of this, otherwise everything remains in the context of flat-rate assessments and unverified claims. But I thank the Minister for her explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u37	Member of the Czech Republic, although I agree with your substantive debate, I must remind you that the amendment of the Left was tabled in accordance with the procedure, even though it may be contentious. That is why we need to hold a debate on this amendment. Therefore, I will not accept your procedural proposal to suspend this meeting and we will continue the debate. First, he has the word Luke Moon, who wanted the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. I'll try to answer the Minister's remarks briefly. First of all, I'm not the only one to renegotiate. I'll read to you what Secretary Anton Zunič said today. He said the following. He wonders whether we have analysed sufficiently why the European Commission in other countries acts quite the opposite of Slovenia and does not insist on such commitments as we do. Here he also points to Portugal and Italy. It goes on to say that the key problem is that the European Commission will insist on selling the majority ownership package to NLB because it wanted to remedy the distortion of competition on the market. However, Slovenia should assume in the new negotiations that it has rehabilitated banks from its own resources, which means that this is an increased public debt of the country, which will be repaid exclusively by its taxpayers. It therefore calls on, given that they have only fulfilled all the other commitments made by the predecessors in a totally different macroeconomic situation, except one, this is the sale of NLB to renegotiate with the European Commission, which is also our position. You say that if we stop your procedure today, it could lead to the bank starting to repay state aid and then being forcibly sold for a few euros. In fact, if this is a threat on the one hand, I don't really see how this is any different from what you're proposing. First, the prices at which the bank will be sold on the forced quick sale of the fire room, but I know you can't tell, but it's probably, even if you knew it, you wouldn't be able to tell because it's probably gonna be low. Secondly, everything that Croatian savers will require from the bank will go directly to the budget of Slovenia. And how can you now claim that these two numbers will not equalize? At NKBM we sold it for – How much was it? — a little more than a third of the bookkeeping value at the time. NLB can be a lot of money. And that was a good offer. 250 million was a better offer. The second bidder offered 150 million. And when you say it's irresponsible not to accept this today, because anything can happen to you, you sold the NKBM to the mailbox. The NLB is also likely to be sold to the mailbox. How do we know what the fate of this bank will be? How do we know that there will be no new owner of a predatory fund that will only be emptied and used with the taxpayer's money we have invested in it?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u39	Replica time's up. It's limited to three minutes. However, I would warn all Members and Members that replicas are intended to do so if the Member has been misunderstood. If you want to discuss and argue with the Minister, you have this opportunity by simply applying for the debate, which I will now reopen to recommence the debate. Therefore, in view of the expressed interest which has been reinstated, I am opening an application for a debate on the amendment to Article 15. Sign up for the debate by pressing the key for the speech when I open the application. Sir, please, if you could press again. As soon as I open the application, you can log in by pressing the speaker key. Check-in is on. The word is Jože Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u40	Your Honor! Besides, I understand Levica's pointing to a problem from the past, which unfortunately is not helping us at this point. I expect, even when I come to this National Assembly, to see this Parliament appoints a government, a prime minister, ministers who are carefully chosen by coalition parties, to confirm, and this is our executive power. It is crucial to me that this executive power works professionally and quickly. But if we look back, I have a feeling that in these years after independence, we've lost a lot, a lot and always a lot of time. That means we didn't make the right decision. We're here today, it's hard to solve things back here, there must be some experience, but we have to work from here on out. I welcome or have also asked the outgoing government to take certain measures or positions or to implement these measures, including today's. It is said that the sale of NLB was scheduled a week ago. Here, then, are the next steps that we need to take. Of course, the second question is how strong we are or how strong this government is that it has done so properly. But look, in particular, things have to go on, they have to go on and, of course, the next government will also have a great responsibility to address possible errors, shortcomings to go ahead. But look, it's a start, and this road has to go on. It's just waiting for us to lose more, which we've learned. Even in this case, if this bank had been sold a year ago, it would have gotten more. That's what we're waiting for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u41	Replica was requested by Member Natasha Sukić, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleague, that's all. It's not just about dealing with something that's happened in the past, but I don't know what. I mean, here we should make sure that the new governments, whatever they may be, are not yet burdened with additional mortgages and errors that can be compared with such enforced fast laws. Let us wait for a new government to be formed, and then we must adopt such a law, if you judge at that time still the same, for example. Then back him up, but not that we're going to rush to the head today, and we're going to be a new government, whatever it is, we're just going to impose any additional burdens that may or may not prove to be a mistake, as far as I'm concerned. I'm reminding you again of what I've been alerting you to. By doing so, we are in possession of legal matters that have already been settled. I think we are going against what has already been determined with the memorandums and agreements, and still protects us, including the New Ljubljana Bank, and therefore there is no need at all, so really so. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u43	Once again, I warn Members and Members that the replicas are intended to explain the part of the debate in which you were misunderstood. If you want to discuss with other Members, to argue, to face arguments and opinions, do so through a discussion where you have the opportunity to apply. Mr Jurij Leipzig continues to hold the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members! I see that we are mostly new, which is also the right thing to be sitting in our jobs at the beginning for a lot of time, and I think that's the right thing to do. I certainly hope that in the future I will not be able to participate very little, but I will sit on the job if I can. So I think the first criticism is that I expect more of us behind these chairs. Another thing about the same content. In the Desus Group, we discussed this story a lot, and believe me, we have also opposed many people and that we have been negotiating – we are public defenders, as you know, of course. But at this moment, we cannot turn to another Member as we have heard what we have read. The arguments you have just presented, the parliamentary groups and ours and everyone else, you have said in the majority what has been bad in the past that you will be the best. That is, everyone, mostly except the Left – but I think the National Parties – and you supported this proposal. Of course, we, the new Members, have no choice but to go to support this. You know, I was in the local government, and we're probably operational, so you can't put some stuff on the table, but you can't take some responsibility on your own. So let's say, as far as I'm concerned, it's just this thing that my colleague from the Left, I respect their program, but I would expect more responsibility to be involved in the rescue. The simplest thing to say is, I'm the opposite of it, I'm not for it to be that way. The arguments for us, the new ones, who do not have such professional competences, I must admit that I believe most of the time our minister, what I want is something else. Since I read this story myself, how did it happen before we sold our bank Maribor, we know it was a disaster, we got one-quarter of the money invested, public money, we're talking and why are we here? [[…]] That is why we are here to respect public money and to try to give it as rationally as possible, I would say, to give as little as possible, in order to leave some money for development as possible. Yeah, that's what I'm saying in general. So I think that this law that we are now adopting on the protection of the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia in the NLB is welcome at this point and, in my opinion, in my behaviour, which I can now assess and have experience, it is right to protect it. I'm aware the bank was a decision to sell out years ago. So, we're going to sell the bank, and if we sell it, logically, if there's some millstone in the back that tells us that it can happen, that someone will sue and we'll lose, but I'm also aware that this money will be public money again. I therefore hope and expect that, on the basis of this law, which we will confirm today – and I will personally confirm it – I expect that these actions will be as few as possible, that they will be substantiated and that they will also be rejected in these actions by European courts. Because if we do this, then I can say that I have done my job, but believe me, in the future, I will do a lot of things, because today we are doing everything as has been said, ad hoc, everything fast, everything urgent, which is very disturbing to me personally, but look, that's how it is. We are here now, we are faced with this fact, and if we have this fact, I have decided to uphold the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u45	Member Boštjan Koražija has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u46	Respected and respected! First of all, I welcome you and also bring you a nice greeting from Ptuj and Haloz, from our eastern work, so I also formally welcome you. That's the way it is. It is more than obvious that today’s feeling in the National Assembly is truly remarkable, since we are already in the third extraordinary session and are re-adopting laws that should be adopted earlier or that the government should set them up and correct matters earlier on the way out. I believe that today this law is not being passed for the benefit of the countries and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but, above all, that it is an extremely large and bear service to capital. At the same time, NLB’s sales during this year would have been economically irrational, as the price or sales of NLB in last year were much higher. However, I would like the state of Slovenia to start negotiating with the European Commission on a model basis or as previously presented by Luka Mesec, my colleague or comrade, Portugal. Finally, I would just say that I come from the region of the eastern part of Slovenia, where people, from a material point of view, have little, but they have an extremely large heart and hearty hope that the country or the future policy and government will not make the same mistake as the NKMB or the New Maribor Credit Bank, in order not to make the same mistake of selling NLB again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u47	Member Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u48	Dear Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! As far as the amendment to Article 15 is concerned, colleagues and colleagues of the Left are concerned, somehow I understand that it is now theirs to speed up sales. However, if this law were to enter into force on 1 January 2021, I do not know why this date should be the same, but then this would not be an accelerated sale. But, ladies and gentlemen, sales have started or should start — when? 18 December 2013 This is the date on document SA33229, when the European Commission turned on the green light that the state of Slovenia could give our tax money to NLB a thousand and 550 million euros. At the same time in this document is the state of Slovenia, that is all of us, adopted a catalogue of commitments; and one of these is the sale of the majority share of NLB by the end of last year. It is likely that five years will soon pass, or today exactly five years, minus five months, since the sale has been or should have taken place. We knew everything; five years minus five months we know what we have to do, and we're not. Of course, those who had authority in these four months did not do their homework, so voters said they had to say goodbye. That's how democracy works. I regret that there is no respectable colleague here and my cousin Natasha Sukič to tell her that, of course, we in New Slovenia insist that NLB was not well managed. There's no liability here for senior management, for the administration, for the supervisory board, for those who have been recruited into the supervisory board and administration. Who was the man who did it? Politics. And why do we need to sell the New Ljubljana Bank today, July 2018? Because Slovenian politics has put her on the line! And I propose, of course, to Mrs Natashi and to others, that they read at least the summaries of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, the so-called Logar Commissions, as well as the conclusions that have been adopted in the National Assembly, virtually unanimously. I'm sure many people don't believe me, but Parliament should probably believe that if some decisions are made, some decisions are taken unanimously. You know, I've had enough of this populism, this misunderstanding. I believe everyone knows the secondary economy, and I must therefore make it clear here that I do not accept the economic catecheism of Luke, he certainly does not accept mine, but we are democrats. He has already told the Slovenian public a thousand times a mistake, a disaster that occurred in Slovenia, that we invested 870 million of our money in the NKMB. That's right. The price was 250 million, and it's true. But besides that, he makes a story of what a mistake it was. But anyone who masters the high school economy, I have such a belief, he understands that the bank has not been rehabilitated in order to sell them better. The rehabilitation of the banks was designed to protect the bank or, rather, to protect the committee. 870 million has nothing to do with 250 million purchases at NKBM. Thank God the bank remained above the water, the roles were protected and the same with the New Ljubljana Bank. Otherwise, I will not succeed, I know that this story will continue and repeat and will spin for so long – and this is a lie, this is a lie. Of course, a lie, if you repeat it 100 times, it becomes the truth all of a sudden. And it really hurts me that here from this place some people furrow our citizens in such a primitive way. Our citizens are worthy of honor and do not tell them that maybe – of course, politics – has made a mistake when he invested, and now we are going to the New Ljubljana Bank about 2.3 billion euros. Some now expect, or some of you are on hand, to press the burden that there has not been a sale in time for this mandate. Since you said so, we're not gonna sell it until we get a purchase that's the same as the deposit. So it's about 2.3 billion euros. Never! That's never gonna happen. We'll be on the plus side if we get at least a tiny bit more than book value. Marca was one good billion, not a Madam Minister. That's how we put this stuff too much into it. [[…]] Look, there was this pain study, and I've never seen it, this pain study. Of course, it's easy to be smart to say, we've given too much, maybe we've given too little and so on. But, summa summarum, ladies and gentlemen, the New Ljubljana Bank has been flooded by Slovenian politics and therefore we must sell it. We have also signed this in December 2013 and this National Assembly, as has already been said, has also decided this, twice already, at least twice. And what's the problem here?Oh, my God! One more thing. This amendment, signed by the Left Parliamentary Group, would support it if the same parliamentary group guaranteed that we would actually get 2.4 billion euros in purchase. But if I read a bit of professional articles or even non-professional articles, and everyone also knows that economic cycles are within the framework, they go after some sinusoid, which is not exactly the right sinusoid to invest a wave, that this investment cycle is to cool down. What happens in 2021, question for Levi, if the answer is, okay, day by day. What if there's a crisis then? Why don't we start by selling the new Ljubljana Bank?Oh, my God! Today, for example, last year, there was this investment wave on which we should somehow sail to get as much purchase as possible. And once again and for a hundred more; we didn't fix the bank to increase the purchase. We took them out to get the banks to stay above water and to protect the boards. That, I understand, is the goal of recovery. If I somehow concentrate on the debate of my colleague Luke Mesca, I can also say, and from this debate, I can say that, in fact, Levica wants Slovenia to leave the euro area. Then we could have been there in our own way, as it is called in the wrong Slovenian language. But if we're in some area, there's some rules, there's no chaos. The euro as a common currency is, in fact, within the European Union, in my understanding, according to our understanding, the best that could have happened to us. Ask the economists, and you know it. Various excuses and escapes from the responsibility of the Member, if there is now a period without a government and so on – we have received, ladies and gentlemen, 22 June this year's confirmed mandates. The National Assembly, when it has received the President, is fully operational, we have committees and we are fully operational and, more importantly, we are fully responsible. Do not now make excuses that we do not have a government to rule the future without imposing on them too much of a backpack or whatever it was — it is without connection. Look, I believe I'm not the only one, I always vote on my conscience, whether I'm a coalition or an opposition MP. People have sent us here to make responsible decisions for our citizens. The New Slovenia Group will oppose this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u49	Member of the Parliament, Dr. Darius Krajčič, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u50	Thank you very much, sir. Madam Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! I think we're going a little too far into the secondary part of today's topic, that's sales, but the primary part is law, which means protecting capital investment. I'd like to say more about that, if you don't mind. Again, we have a story on the table called the problem with Croatia. This is not the first problem, we have a lot of problems with Croatia. And this is the arbitration, and many years ago, Sunny Hvar, if you remember, sales and purchases, is Agrokor and Mercator and so on. We simply don't know how to say "trade" with this Croatia. Here, according to my assessment, we have a problem and one of the reasons why this is so is that we either don't know history or we don't want to read it or we don't want to understand it. When one goes back to history – as we know, history is the history of the master of vitae, but if we go 100 years and a little over 100 years ago, there was a state in this area called the War Land. This was a special area, and part of the Republic of Croatia today and beyond this war zone is today's Republic of Croatia. There were other rules in force than in the rest of Europe. However, these other rules were not written, they were a de facto second rule, while de jure they were some European, for example, rules. This area had to be maintained at that time. The area was designed to defend against Turkish incursions, Turkish influences and so on. It maintained the whole of Europe, but the most Slovenian countries. These are the ones that were closer to this area. Well, from this time of history Croatia has learned to work from this position, as it is called, business, business. As Swiss money businesses can do, you have started to do the business of this defence role that Europe has put in place there. Well, the rules were a little different there than they were in Europe. That's where I'd say Einstein's place was a little bit crooked. All of these stories, which we experience from Croatia, stem essentially from their condition there, behavior and such roles. We must respect this role, in my opinion, and this role was recognised by Europe at the time and is now recognised by Europe. Even at the arbitration, when we were so boastful, how suddenly we would have free borders. What do we have today? We have Croatian shells in the Slovenian sea. In short, Europe admits any other way than de mura, and if we want Croatia to be smart, it is a stupid wish because it will not be, because it does not need to be. What we have to do is we have to adapt to this state and mate with it. Let me give you a banal example, which happened in Split last year, for example, to me and my son at the bus stop. The son traveled to Slovenia by bus and said there was a discount for students and students. He offered a student card, but there this employee told him that it was only for Croatian citizens. Can you imagine? This is simply unimaginable! They are in the EU, and they do not respect this, because a citizen is a citizen, he cannot be Croatian or Slovenian, but he is European, and this should apply to everyone, if any, for all European citizens. Of course, I didn't argue with them that that was true for me, because it was unrelated. On this basis, the whole of Croatia is functioning and we must learn from this history also different, generally, treatment of them. If not, we will pay too much, just as we paid a lot at the time, but there was sovereignty in Vienna somewhere higher, but today it is at least partially in Ljubljana. As far as the bank's concerned, I'm going to contact the banks now. A fellow Member of the Committee said that these banks had enough. Anyway, you know, banks can be enough or not enough, he's always here. It's like a mosquito. It's always a mosquito. Whether it's private or state, whatever it is. Because banks here are simple and even as a country we need to know how to manage these banks; if they are private, through regulation, if they are public, state, and through supervisory councils and administration. Well, in state banks it's just that the losses that are coming are public, but the profits are not public, because we can't pay them as dividends. In private banks, profits are private and losses are public again – the Probank case. What are we missing here? Here we lack one good legislation that we create more or less here or is being prepared by the government, good staffing and good regulators. I think we've made a lot of mistakes around here in this country. We have a lot of work to do here. Well, we must not forget the fourth component, but this is morale, honesty, business excellence and so on, which has been more than inappropriate for good managers in this history, at least since 2003. As far as marriage is concerned, I'd say it's significantly better than what we got a few days ago about medical work. I'm just waiting for us to become an operating room here, and they're going to bring us those problems here, and we're going to operate here, so we're almost there. I must also say that the attitude of the Minister or Government towards Parliament in this part was at least, in my opinion, appropriate, while the former law was ignorant. However, the lady tried and went to the parliamentary groups to represent this law. He's been sitting here with us all day with the Secretary of State. Remember a few days ago, there was no spirit or hearing about the Minister, and the Secretary of State didn't last with us the whole time. That's how I welcome this government's relationship to us. It is so that a famous interview with Niko Kavčič, who was a few years ago, he is one of the creators of the New Ljubljana Bank, said: “We will never have such a bank again.” Here. Today, as far as I am concerned, I will support this law because it seems to me that it does protect the assets of the New Ljubljana Bank and that there will be no greater damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u51	Member Vojko Starović has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u52	Thank you very much, President. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I will agree with those who have already said that some weight lays on our shoulders again under the emergency, I would say, almost a day. This problem, which we are dealing with today, is by no means a new problem. It's a drag problem with a long beard that's been dragging for 25 years. Although the management of the Ljubljana Bank then offered the owner, that is, our country, which was and was an important and successful regional bank – Ljubljanska Banka – the solution to the applications to pay small savers, has come up with such an initiative. We could also read about this in the newspaper Del 15. 11. 2017 at the 25th anniversary of the Association of Slovenian-Croatian Friendship, which played a role here, we could pay back then and this was the proposal of the administration. Policy alone has made a different decision, and that is why the problem remains. Even later in 2004-2008, when we entered the European space with cheap funds, we were all in debt on average; and households and the economy, especially financial institutions. At that time, Slovenia’s long gross debt doubled from 20 billion to 40 billion. Nor did politics react at the time when this debt increased tremendously and when the crisis occurred did the policy not react. We compare, we take the United States, where the source of this crisis, which is being accused of this casino of capitalism, as they called it, was reacted immediately. At the same time, the Bush-Obama government changed, and together they threw a thousand 700 billion dollars into the banking system to rehabilitate it. Why? This is a fellow Horvat, who is not here now, well explained that they have protected the committees, the economy and so on so that they do not stop. We needed five years, to Alenka Bratušek, who dared with her government to make this rehabilitation bank successful, although in a relatively very short period. That was when this decision came, not a commitment, but a decision of our European Commission, that is, our wider community, which we entered into, that this bank should be sold. If the current government, the outgoing government, meant anything else to do to keep the bank in Slovenian hands, this largest investment should react immediately; to go to court before the European court, and possibly to achieve – which is doubtful – and, on the other hand, to proceed immediately to the sale. And now, in the end, a new reference, we have to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u53	There's a MEP with a word. Marko Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament, all present, a beautiful greeting! First of all, I would like to refer to my predecessors, including the new Members, who point out that in some way we are in an unenviable position, when we have to make a decision on a measure that, in my opinion, I think we should decide or leave it to the future government, which will have full powers. Today we are taking a measure that exposes the country to the risk of possible, successful recovery in favour of the Croatian savers of the former Ljubljana Bank. It is true that this measure is not specifically related to the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, but I cannot avoid feeling that we are in such a hurry to take this measure precisely because the ambition of the bank is to sell it as soon as possible. In this way, I must admit, I have concerns. On the other hand, I am also not inclined to sell important state assets, among which system banks certainly belong. Selling in this way and in this particular situation is asking me quite a few questions or dilemmas. In fact, we have an open problem with the actions of deleted holders of subordinated deposits who were allegedly damaged in the resolution of the banking system. We have, as has already been said, the issue of Croatian savers, which puts the country at risk for additional EUR 400 million or more. And there are reasons to suspect that the rehabilitation of the banking system has been heavily overpaid, that more public money has been spilled into our banks than would have been necessary. In such a situation, only someone who has no good intentions or sincere intentions can force us to sell the bank. I find it difficult to agree that the European Commission is forcing us to sell a bank without any economic logic, even at any cost. Respectable economists warn that the rehabilitation of the banking system has been overpaid. Reputable economists and lawyers point out that the bank's rehabilitation did not involve unlawful aid for which the bank should be sold. I am afraid that we have needlessly found ourselves in this situation that it has not been done enough to protect the interests of this country. However, if we are already deciding on the sale of the New Bank of Ljubljana, which I stress once again, it is not directly related to the law, but it is only right that we decide on this by choice and not because of the Commission's commitments or demands. After all, we believe and I am convinced that the European Union is a democratic creation and the Commission as a leading democratic institution. We should certainly ask ourselves what the system bank means for the export economy, what they can produce and what synergies there are. On the other hand, if we decide to sell, we should know very clearly what to do about the money we obtain, or where to put the matter in a strategic and economic interest. If we were a sovereign state, we would, I imagine, even decide sovereignly and on our own. I agree with the above arguments, there is a commitment to sell the New Ljubljana Bank, but many circumstances have changed during this time. The fact is that today the bank has around 200 million years of profits, which is huge, and in some ways it would expect some more thought to come to light before the beginning of the sale. However, if it is going to be sold, this scattered model is certainly one of the best. But I'd like to ask you a few specific questions. Maybe the first to specifically refer to the law that we adopt. I don't know if we are aware that 25% of the shares can be bought by Croatian companies that are in one way or another connected to the Croatian country, and then, hypothetically for example, some other funds, which are also connected to the country of the next 25% and the new supervisory board, for example, decide that all these unpaid deposits of Croatian savers must be paid. I ask because I do not know whether these funds should also be covered by the Republic of Slovenia through the Fund or not. Second question. In case of sale, can Slovenian companies also run or buy a share, and which — for example, Petrol, Triglav, Sava — or what is the matter here? So much for now. Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u55	Member Predrag Baković has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u56	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleague, colleague! I must say that I myself have concerns about the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank as a strategic bank, but I am aware that today this law does not allow for sale. As I understand it, sales have been sort of arranged or fixed a long time ago, in fact, it is about choosing from a number of possible scenarios the least bad. I believe that every day when we do nothing, we make the situation of the New Ljubljana Bank worse. Therefore, as a new representative of the people in this house, I do not really have any choice but to believe and trust the profession, the ministry, the minister and, last but not least, the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which supports the proposed law and, finally, the Joint Committee. I will support the law, and I myself wonder whether we really had no one — and that this person would have some influence on the decision makers at that time — who would have predicted what would happen. So he predicted the necessity of selling the works of the New Ljubljana Bank and not least that the consequences of the transferred foreign exchange deposits of Croatia would arise and that they would have an impact on the price or value of the NLB. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u57	Member Robert Polnar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u58	Ladies and gentlemen! In the debate on the amendment to Article 15 of the Law, which, by the way, has only one sentence, a certain misunderstanding of the expressed position of the Desus Group was also shown at the outset. That's okay. The perception of what is said is a matter of individual restraint and it would be inappropriate to speak and discuss such perceptions because it is an integral part of a democratic procedure. What was highlighted in the debate is that there is an alternative to law. This alternative is new negotiations. The assumption is that these negotiations should be successful; successful as ever when the situation becomes inevitably worse. Negotiations are getting better and the situation is getting worse. In this place we must ask ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, what is the fundamental outcome the Republic of Slovenia wants to achieve by selling the New Ljubljana Bank. Inevitably, without any doubt, we can find that this business outcome will be negative. All possible additional negotiations and any additional deferrals will only result in new additional costs, without any foreseeable positive effects. That's why the Desus Group shows us an important bank to sell. Not only is this the commitment of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to the European Commission, why the Pacta sunt servand principle as a fundamental principle of bond law is still valid in the European Union, but it is mainly because all further negotiations would practically only increase the negative outcome that we will create with knowledge in one way or another. I think there is another point to be highlighted in this debate. It is clear that we have different points of view on the whole matter, but also in the finesse. In my opinion, this is nothing wrong. This is, in fact, completely understandable and is the fundamental substance of any parliamentary democracy, including Slovenian democracy. At the outset, I mentioned that the amendment was a single sentence, saying, “This law enters into force on 1 January 2021”. Let us think, ladies and gentlemen, about what we have already heard today about this sentence. Mr President, you mentioned at the previous meeting that this is some sort of tradition in the National Assembly to talk about everything and nothing, about everything on average. Perhaps, however, it would indicate, on behalf of the economy of the operation of this highest body of the legislative branch, that this would be discussed exclusively. I understand that your generosity in this is backed up by some sort of tradition, but I think it would still be appropriate to stick to what is the topic of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u59	Mr Kryčič, Member of the Parliament, asked for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I would like to oppose this position of a respected colleague. It seems to me that what you have, President, is this habit of leaving a broad debate, a positive story and an integral part of democratic parliamentaryism in Article 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u61	Let me once again warn all Members and Members that replicas are intended for this if you have been misunderstood. It's a debate to polynomise. I have already announced several times that I will adhere to parliamentary practice to leave a slightly broader debate and debate in the debate on Article 1 which is more general in nature. However, you always have the opportunity to respond to this and, say, in the case of Desus, report accordingly less time and thus contribute to a smaller or more effective debate. The following shall have the word of Mr Matei Udovč.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u62	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! For the second time in my short term, I found myself faced with an extremely difficult decision. I am involved with you in the processes that relate to the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. Once again, we are dealing with the matter and accepting it in time and under urgent procedure. That's what's making me uncomfortable. I don't want to burden myself with feelings or the perception that NLB's sale is another sale of state property, but it's a necessity and it's been following us for a long time. Procedures and sales process have been going on for many years. This issue has already been addressed by a number of governments, and some critical decisions have been taken by the current governments prior to the launch. The current government is just continuing its processes in this area. The situation in the European Commission and the economic situation have also changed and changed several times in this area. We must be aware that the European Commission's commitments remain. Dear colleagues and colleagues, let us fulfill our commitments today and thus prove that we are credible, that we respect promises, commitments and legal order. Why should we expose ourselves to any pressures and sanctions and, on the other hand, open up the basic dilemma forever, sell the bank or not? Let us return to the very proposal of the law that is before us today. I estimate that the law is essential in the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, with two aspects. The Bank shall relieve the negative financial consequences arising from the enforcement of its judgments and shall maintain the value of the State’s capital investments in NLB. These are, of course, essential elements in achieving the highest possible price in the sale of the bank. At the same time, it is also possible to pay dividends to the State under the assumption that the European Central Bank will issue an agreement on the payment of dividends. By this law, the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia will also play one of its roles as a successor and will contribute decisively to the successful sale of NLB. At the same time, the law obliges the Bank to continue its efforts to challenge the judgments of the courts of Croatia on the basis of which enforcement will be carried out. In this way, the bank must return the funds received to the fund. The agreement between the Fund and the Bank and the Ombudsman, appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, will also have a major impact on the effective implementation of this law after the adoption of this Act. I had a number of substantive and nomological concerns about the bill itself, but we removed them on the joint committee with the amendments. I therefore assess that the proposal for a law is appropriate for adoption. Finally, I would like to stress once again that I am aware of the possible long-term negative consequences of NLB's sales. However, I am encouraged by the fact that the majority of the 25% plus one share remains the property of the country. The NLB still needs to remain the main pillar of support for the economy and for all the commissioners in this area, so I will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u63	The Minister of Finance, Mag, has the floor. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u64	Thank you very much. In particular, I would like to answer some of the specific questions raised in this round of discussions and at the same time reiterate some of the conclusions that I do not think have been sufficiently clear so far. Comparisons with the privatisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor do not hold. New Credit Bank Maribor was sold through direct negotiations to a strategic investor or strategic buyer. In the case of Nova Ljubljanska banka, I said before, we are talking about the first supply of shares where the envisaged ownership is essentially dispersed and there are no direct negotiations and discussions with the individual investor. The New Maribor Credit Bank was sold in completely different economic circumstances and the economic circumstances prevailing in the country have a significant impact on the amount of the possible purchase. When we talk about the purchase, we should not just think about the purchase that we have received directly, but we should also think about the indirect positive effects. Only because of the privatisation of NKBM, where we have proved that we are willing to make difficult decisions, that we are prepared, like any other country, even for a low price to sell state property, so that we can move things forward, and this has also led to a reduction in the state bond charges. On this account, given the scope of the new debts with which we paid old debts, we have reduced interest expenses or obligations for a period of 10 years, which is the most common period of our debt, by 350 million over a 10-year period. That's the Ministry of Finance's assessment. This reduction in profits had a indirect impact on the easier conditions of indebtedness of Slovenian economic and financial operators, once again essentially an indirect effect, and all this helped to relaunch the economy, revive the economy and boost positive economic growth, in fact, from 2015 onwards. In no way should we compare the privatisation that has taken place under the conditions in which Slovenia has in fact cooled down measures by the European Commission due to the excessive deficit, due to excessive macroeconomic imbalances, with today's situation where we have improved ratings in the ratin agencies where we have a balanced budget where we have abolished any excess or no excess of any macroeconomic imbalances. These terms of sale will undoubtedly also affect Pardon, these economic conditions will undoubtedly have a beneficial effect on the sales process itself. [[…]] Once again, the first decision of this country to privatise 75 % minus one share was taken in 2012, in June 2012, and then confirmed in a decision on the capital investment management strategy in 2015. The sale process remains unchanged until now and no one proposes any change in this sales process and if you have national decisions in which you say you will privatise the state bank in a relationship and that you will maintain only 25% and one share, how will you then negotiate with the European Commission that you will retain 100% state ownership in this bank? Something's not going on here! Once again, as far as Portugal is concerned. This particular case, which has been re-exposed today, is completely different from the case of the New Ljubljana Bank, and we have not observed a case in which the European Commission would agree to a change or withdrawal of the State's obligation to reprivatise the bank to which the State has offered State aid. And it is true that we have decided, with our own solutions, to provide funds for this recapitalisation, but not to think that if we received funds through the European Fund to help countries in difficulty to obtain these funds, we would be able to obtain grants. We would also repay them, as we are essentially paying back the commitments we made in 2013 in order to implement these procedures. Now for specific questions. Where is the purchase going? In accordance with the Public Finance Act, the purchase of capital investments by the State can always be allocated only to the debt of the State or the State budget and under the Slovenian State Holding Act, 10 % of the purchases received can be allocated to a specific fund or to a specific budget fund intended for the future demographic fund. The revenue from the purchase cannot be used under any conditions for current public expenditure. Who can be the buyer? I have already mentioned that the envisaged sale procedure is at the first offer, a public supply of shares, which means that anyone who is prepared at an appropriate price can pay any share in essence. We cannot prevent individual investors, funds, entities from a specific country from participating in this process. They may cooperate if they are willing to pay the required price. The same can be done by Slovenian companies or Slovenian investors, not only companies, including individuals, but only companies owned by the majority state. They are essentially prohibited. On top of that, it's about Croatian savers. Let me point out that the obligations towards Croatian depositors have been fully settled because they were settled by the Croatian State at the time it encouraged the transfer of these deposits from the Ljubljana Bank branch to the various Croatian banks. And there is no claim of savers, owners of transferred foreign exchange deposits to Slovenia. There is an obligation of the Croatian state or claim, requires the Croatian state to the Slovenian entities to pay back what the Croatian State has paid its nationals with a unilateral measure to the savers to pay them back the Slovenian entities or Slovenia. Once again, this law does not change in any way the attitude we have so far, and we do not recognize this. The current laws, the constitutional law, the succession agreement, the Memorandum of Understanding did not prevent Croatia from continuing with the actions requested or by bringing proceedings and proceedings. This is why the solutions so far in new conditions are simply not enough and do not offer the protection that we owe ourselves if we want to be responsible owner of the New Ljubljana Bank. In 2013 this problem could not be detected simply because during that period Croatia de facto respected the Memorandum of Understanding from June or spring 2013. Only after entering the European Union did Croatia simply find that it no longer wants to respect this memorandum. The discussion was that the alternative was the law that they were negotiating. I hope that negotiations with the European Commission were not meant here, because this law of the European Commission is not actually relevant. Negotiations with the European Commission shall be conducted on the conditions under which State aid and compensatory measures have been granted. The alternative to this law is simply to negotiate and agree with Croatia on how this problem will be resolved. But with regard to this arrangement, even to sitting at the common table, we have not been able to make it in years. I doubt that we are going to get this result quickly, because of this real alternative to the law I do not see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u65	Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 15? He does. Since there is still a wish, please log in again by pressing the speak button. Check-in is on. Member Mojca Žnidarič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u66	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, hello! And for the first time, I send my regards to my Prlecia, where I come from. I will first define myself until the amendment tabled by the Left; therefore, this law, which we are adopting today, will only enter into force in January 2021. What would that mean? Today we do not decide on the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, because this was already decided in 2012 and 2013, as has been said several times today. So, the sale would go on. What about the protection of the bank we want to provide today? Well, we wouldn't protect her. This protection would then enter into force in 2021. So, I will certainly vote against the amendment, and the law that we adopt, I therefore support, because it is essential to ensure that the negative financial consequences of NLB are replaced. We will do so by law by taking over this task by the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for an inheritance. Therefore, the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Succession will reimburse the New Ljubljana Bank for the financial consequences it will suffer due to Croatian legal decisions. At the same time, the law also requires the New Ljubljana Bank to challenge these decisions by all legal means and to return them to the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for succession. However, if the fund or the bank does not receive these funds back, the Republic of Slovenia will apply these funds in the context of the succession negotiations. My opinion is that the law we are adopting today certainly helps to protect the bank or the market value of the bank. The bank will sell, but the difference is at what price. With this law that we are adopting today, we will therefore protect it and I am sure that the market value of the bank will be greater than it would otherwise be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u67	The word has been given by Ambassador Željko Ciegler.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today's debate is an interesting force, I would like to say that I fully agree with Mr Koprivac's discussions, or Mr Robert Polnar, or Mr Jelinčič, Mr Šircl. We basically speak the same language on the same substantive stuff. In economic and legal terms, we note that certain measures are awaiting emergency meetings and then we come up with completely different decisions in this sense, whether this law, which is currently under consideration, is supported or not supported. Thus, someone who follows this from the outside does not know exactly whether we know what we are talking about or does not understand the logical course of the discussion. I must say, Madam Minister, that you did not answer Mr Mark Koprivec when he asked a question earlier if he would buy shares of the Ljubljana Bank, which will be sold, one collector, one strategic collector who bought, for example, the New Credit Bank of Maribor, and the persons financed by the pension funds from Croatia will unite and have a practical interest in controlling the policy of the bank. And I agree that this law must be adopted in order for the bank to be able to sell as much as possible. The gentleman from Nova Slovenije said perfectly, the policy has fueled the Ljubljana Bank. I add, today we're going to give her a little extra kick. I'll tell you why. But somebody's paying for it. This is paid by citizens and citizens of this Slovenia who have pensions of less than 600 euros, two-thirds of whom receive an average salary, or almost one hundred thousand unemployed, they are paid here. We today, with our salaries and powers and responsibilities, confirm this at extraordinary meetings. Why did I say we're going to recapitalize the bank today? What's going on here? Whether to sell the bank or not, it was not only that argument, the arguments that were mentioned in today's Siol, as Cirman and Vukovič wrote about, as his colleague Luke Mesec had previously said. Many articles by economists, lawyers on this subject have been published in the Slovenian public and the public – in addition to what we are listening to here today. I most agree with that argument that reads, we can read: “Is it a forced sale of NLB for ignorance or ignorance? Why is the interests of capital supported here against the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and the citizens who pay for it?" They pay 2 billion 300 recapitalisations when you, Madam Minister, said that between 2009 and 2013 so much was invested. And now with this law, if the funds needed to repay Croatia exceed the funds from the successor fund, this will be the additional burden of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We're going to recapitalize it by selling this bank that has that kind of assets for that kind of low money. In fact, if the people of TV3 today listen to the people who tolerate this session directly, if they listen to the debate and then listen when it's said in the end, we will vote in favour, they say, "Wait a minute, is this one in common sense? He said something completely different, but now he's going to vote for it. This law is not for the benefit of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, it is not for the benefit of the State. Are all options really complete? According to the arguments I'm reading and the economic and legal professions, I say they're not. And what simple Luke the Moon said, which is beyond understanding or demagogicism, is what he's saying here. Simply, with these dividends and the profits made by Nova Ljubljanska banka in Slovenia now, by 2021 a large part of the recapitalisation could be reimbursed to the citizens and citizens of Slovenia who have to pay this recapitalisation. It's just that. Will our heads be able to understand that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u69	Member Primož Siter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! If we have just welcomed our provinces, I too will send greetings to my Zasavje, where we like or do not like to use the term to do something about it. And that's exactly the kind of thing we have ahead of us right now. Mr Horvat of the NSI species pointed out some things that he would like to highlight from the point of view of the Left. He asked what the purpose of this amendment was. We explained the purpose for a person who has one average understanding of the secondary economy, in one sentence – the delay in applying time to find a more suitable solution. Everything we propose is a better solution. He also asked how to guarantee that in 2021 there would be a successful situation. We cannot, but until then we can only take into account, say, the opinion of the government's legislative service, which this time gave its opinion with a negative foregleam and, by then, we may be able to do a study on risk assessment, which we now, by some strange coincidence, have forgotten to take into account. Now, if I turn to a fellow Koprivac of the species SD. This law is the beginning of a sale, opening the door wide to the sale of NLB. If we want time to think, as a colleague suggested, then it makes sense for us to go in the direction of this amendment. Thank you very much. Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u71	The word is from the Minister of Finance, Mag. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Once again, he explained a few things. The talk was that I did not answer the question as to who might be the buyer. Over here. I did not refer to important, individual countries or buyers from individual countries, but I said in general that if we are talking about the first public offering of shares, then everyone can be the buyer. The merger of new owners, in order to be able to vote or have a greater influence in the bank than in the country, prevents the statute of the bank, which has been properly designed, that the bank or that the country will continue to have a dominant influence in the bank. I have to say, I'm worried that some of you are already saying in advance that we're going to sell the bank at too low a price. The purpose of this law is to offer the bank on market terms, and at this point the market conditions are certainly better than those for the privatisation of other banks that have privatised themselves in the context of the resolution of the banking system in the European Union since the 2008-2010 crisis. In this sense, we need to be more optimistic in that we can reach a suitable price for the bank, and this bill is one of the elements that this price can offer us. As regards the opinion of the SHR, I would like to point out that the Government has considered the proposal of the law twice, that the written opinion of the Government's Law Service has been given on the initial proposal of the law, which we have then agreed on before the re-examination of the law and before the Government has confirmed it, in a number of points, and with the Government's Law Service, so that, when the law is approved, the service does not oppose the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u73	Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 15? [[He doesn't want to.]] We'll talk about the amendment in accordance with the Willows? [[…]] I'm sorry, I didn't see. So we're gonna reopen the application. Please sign up with the speech key for the discussion. I'm opening the application. The word has been given by the Member of the Victory of the Jelinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Actually, there's only one short question. The minister said we would offer the bank under market conditions or market conditions. Who? Do we even have anyone who's willing to buy? Did we even talk to anyone who was willing to buy something? Is it just so thrown into the market, and then whoever comes picks up? I think we need to remember how the NKBM went. We've invested three times as much as we got for the purchase. I mean, are we really a calf company here in Slovenia? If we're going to trade, let's trade as we trade, and let's make a deal and demand something, and if we put something on the table, then let's not sell it for crumbs. But I have a feeling that there's some kind of weird deal back here where the current government is already pulling out some sort of option, how it's going to get some kind of ratings, some kind or some other kind of rating.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u75	The Minister of Finance, Mag, has the floor. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I apologize to those who will hear the whole story again, more than not. The Bank shall be sold under the first supply procedure. The procedure is formalised and will also have to be carried out by the Slovenian State. At this point, I can't name your investors, but I do know that last year's first round of informative talks with investors was a lot of interest in buying a bank. To these measures to which you call, Mr Member, we will be able to proceed on the basis of the decisions taken last week and on the basis of the revised semi-annual report on the operation of the bank in the first half of this year. I am not offering or appealing to a bank for change, but in several discussions in this house it has been exposed that we will sell the bank at a low price. I have objected to this in my debate, and I will as long as I have anything to say about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u77	Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 15? He doesn't want to. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in 30 minutes in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. I hereby interrupt the 1st item of the agenda and the 3rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. and 50 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 3.22 p.m. and resumed at 15.50 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u78	Dear Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposal for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the proposal for a law to protect the value of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in Novi Ljubljanski banka, d.d., Ljubljana, following an urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled, which will be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled, which has been published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the left-wing group to Article 125. We're voting. [[adverts from benches]] I'm calling off the vote. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u79	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! As I said several times in the debate, today we are deciding the fate of the biggest Slovenian bank. Whether or not it will be sold on a rapid basis, likely under unfavourable conditions, at a low price and whether the claims of Croatian foreign exchange deposits will fall directly into the state budget after sale. It's just a decision we're making today. We accept it at a time when the government is not constituted when there is no mandate for such decisions and when the Ministry of Finance takes the authority to move on. In the past, there have been several objections to the conscience against such conduct. Last but not least, the minister tried a similar circuit six months ago, and then the ministers voted, and now she's trying to do a new one. At a time when the new government is on the rise and some parties seem to be trying to somehow befriend each other by voting in the same way today. Above all, I am asking all the new Members to consider whether this is really an optimal scenario. In Levika, we have proposed an amendment to close this law for two and a half years, and of course we will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u80	Someone else wants to explain the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. He does. On behalf of the LMŠ Group, Jože Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u81	That's it, thanks. Today, it has not been re-emphasized that this bank is operating practically half. This is said to be non-leasing and does not have to operate with certain companies, holding companies, which means that if this proposal were announced by the Left, in two and a half years at that time this bank would practically operate without all of these activities. This is said to be a loss of a substantial profit at that time that could otherwise be achieved. The Minister convinced me personally and our client with her arguments and the team and I propose that we vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u82	For the time being, [[…]] [[adverts from benches]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u83	Excuse me, excuse me. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u84	I understand. I understand you. We're talking about the vote on the amendment. I understand. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u85	Against this proposal of the Left, I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u86	I understand. Anyone else would like to explain their vote on behalf of the amendment's parliamentary group? He doesn't want to. [[advertising from the hall]] No, there's no replica here. [[advertising from the hall]] It's okay. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 15 of the Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 63. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 63.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Who wants to explain the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group because we are voting on the law as a whole? He doesn't want to. In your own name? Dr. Brglez, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I will vote against the law myself. For me, both the sale of New Credit Bank Maribor as well as the public financial extraction have been more than instructive. Otherwise, article 149 of the Constitution was bypassed by the National Assembly. This time it's different. However, both the Government and the Ministry of Finance, or the Minister of Finance, who carries out ongoing business, are in fact transferring responsibility to Members. In my previous term, I would never support this law and remain in this principled position. I could even agree with some parts of the opinion of the Government's Law Service, in particular the part that remained in the law because it makes it so piano beautiful, that is, Article 3, which is legally unnecessary regardless of what the law is trying to do with the law itself. As such, the procedure itself was necessary because it was adopted in this national assembly, but the urgency or urgency of the procedure in fact contributed to the fact that we agree to blackmail both on the one hand of the European Commission in the sense of unlawful State aid to the State Bank and on the other hand to the administration of the New Ljubljana Bank, which in itself has already acted unlawfully – in fact not only unlawfully, unconstitutionally – and in some way even sabotaged the procedure we are taking against Croatia before the European Court of Human Rights. However, I remain a fighter against blackmail, and I want to continue to do so, so I will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u88	Anyone else want to explain their voice on behalf of the soybeans? Since there's more to the wish, I'm going to open the application. Please log in by pressing the speak key. Violet Tomić's emissary.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u89	Thank you for your word, President. I will vote against this harmful law, as will all members of the Left. The government in departure has neither the legitimacy nor the economic entitlement to enforce this law. It is completely economically pointless to sell, because we have invested a cheerful 2.3 billion recapitalisation of NLB and the purchase is not known how much we will get. After experiences with NKBM, we could learn at least what we should not do. I think that this is not in the interest of the State or the citizens and that the Members who will vote in favour of this law are taking on a great deal of responsibility here. And instead of taking the time and following the example of some other countries, such as Portugal, to go to new negotiations and negotiate a better position, we always go to a policy of enforced facts. Then it happens that we lose our banks, that we have nothing to sell blindly, that we respect some commitments; in short, we respect others' commitments more than our own citizens, and that is to represent their interests. I am sure that this is not in the interest of our citizens and I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u90	Anybody else want to explain their voice? Just one. Good. No problem. Member Željko Cigler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! I absolutely agree with the gentleman's debate from Mr Sharc's party. All I want to say is that when the Ljubljana Bank has limited operating conditions, it generates very high profits, we talked about that earlier, which we would like to get to them, and, secondly, that it is full of public money. However, as far as my vote on this bill is concerned, I cannot vote otherwise if I have listened and respected the words and arguments of my colleagues and colleagues, Mr Koprivac, Horvat, Polnar, Jelinčič, Širclja, I cannot vote on their arguments in any other way than against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u92	Since there were still a few requests for explanations of vote, I will reopen the application. Please log in by pressing the speak key. Member Franz Kramar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u93	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr President! On the basis of today's debate held in this national assembly, and given that I am new and have listened very carefully to this debate, it is my belief that I will not support this law. I'm just a newbie, thinking with my head and everything I've heard today, I've just made up my mind. It is true that this bank is being protected, but my personal opinion is that we are also protecting the past of this bank, which, at home, I will say that you will understand better, scan the loans to the tycoons and thus actually come into a state where it was no longer financially able to cover all the desires and thus the crisis. We must be aware, because of this situation of the bank, the state bank, there has been a crisis in the country and by recapitalisation, which I believe should help to increase the liabilities of this bank and that it is not as low as it is now to be sold, it is my belief that it is right to wait for a credible government that will have all the powers, not that government that has only the power to do business. I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-19-SDZ8-Izredna-03.ana.u94	Okay. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 59 votes in favour, 11 votes in favour. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda. We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this has been duly informed by the Higher Court of Justice, the Department of Criminal Justice and Crossings, of the criminal procedure of the federal envoy of France Rosco. The notice was forwarded to the National Assembly by the High Court of Celje, the Department of Criminal Justice and Offences. The notice was considered by the Mandate-voluntary Commission as the working body of the State to report in writing to the Assembly. We're moving on to decision-making. The mandate-holder commission shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 83 of the Constitution of Slovenia and the 22 members of the Law on Members concerning the notification by the High Court of Justice in Celje, the Department of Criminal Justice and Offences, number II Kp 15185/2014 of 11 July 2018 on criminal proceedings against the Member of the French Federation, namely, appeals against judgment I K 15185/2014, by which the services of seven offences of bullying on the job were appointed after the second paragraph concerning the first paragraph of Article 197 of the Penal Code, does not recognise the immunity of the Member of France Rosc. I would like to remind you that, on the basis of Article 207(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly on the proposal for a decision, the National Assembly shall decide without discussion. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This concludes item 2 of the agenda. I conclude the third extraordinary session of the National Assembly. Have a good trip and have a nice day ahead. The meeting was closed on 19 July 2018 at 16.05 p.m.
